7: I am sure that the House, after hearing the speech of the Leader of the House, will be rather surprised at the proposition which he has enunciated to-day. Accusations have been bandied about in the Press that this House is more corrupt and less honest than many other Parliaments have previously been. I know there are accusations of dishonesty, by those who are out of power, and I know that such accusations are often general when there is a change of administration. I remember the first Parliament to which I was elected in 1906, when it was stated
7Lieut.-Colonel JOHN WARD
"And that which I have most at heart, and which I venture humbly to implore of the House of Commons, is that, whatever may be your pleasure to decide as to the merits of individuals or as to the fate of Administrations, you will be careful to preserve, sacred and uninjured, the Constitution which is entrusted to your charge."20"Malcontents, availing themselves of the existing distress, have sought to inflame and infuriate the public mind. They have indeed endeavoured to withdraw altogether the confidence of the people from the disposition and wisdom of Parliament and to shake the security of the Constitution."Departments of the State. But the case is practically just the reverse. You contract a habit of extravagance. War, of necessity, means reckless expenditure; useless, and worse than useless, expense; and even if there were an attempt to control it, nothing worth naming could be done. But the civil expenditure of the State and the temper of the House of Commons are infected with this habit of extravagance, and see what is the result."19"Sine 1853 a change has passed over the spirit of our dream; a change has passed over the temper of the Government, over the temper of the Departments, over the temper of the House of Commons, and over the temper of the country. Do not let us seek to shift the blame from ourselves. I believe that in a great degree this change is the natural and necessary result of the War. If we were beings governed by pure reason, then no doubt it would be justly argued that in time of war, when enormous demands are made upon the public purse to meet the necessary purposes of the public service, we ought at all events to exercise a peculiar economy in all the ordinary"The petitioners allege that these calamities could never have assumed so aggravated a character but from the gross neglect of the House in checking the ruinous expense of the Executive Government. They pray that the system of exorbitant expenditure may be speedily diminished."1817"That an humble Address be presented to His Majesty as followeth:: I beg to move:
"And that which I have most at heart, and which I venture humbly to implore of the House of Commons, is that, whatever may be your pleasure to decide as to the merits of individuals or as to the fate of Administrations, you will be careful to preserve, sacred and uninjured, the Constitution which is entrusted to your charge."20"Malcontents, availing themselves of the existing distress, have sought to inflame and infuriate the public mind. They have indeed endeavoured to withdraw altogether the confidence of the people from the disposition and wisdom of Parliament and to shake the security of the Constitution."Departments of the State. But the case is practically just the reverse. You contract a habit of extravagance. War, of necessity, means reckless expenditure; useless, and worse than useless, expense; and even if there were an attempt to control it, nothing worth naming could be done. But the civil expenditure of the State and the temper of the House of Commons are infected with this habit of extravagance, and see what is the result."19"Sine 1853 a change has passed over the spirit of our dream; a change has passed over the temper of the Government, over the temper of the Departments, over the temper of the House of Commons, and over the temper of the country. Do not let us seek to shift the blame from ourselves. I believe that in a great degree this change is the natural and necessary result of the War. If we were beings governed by pure reason, then no doubt it would be justly argued that in time of war, when enormous demands are made upon the public purse to meet the necessary purposes of the public service, we ought at all events to exercise a peculiar economy in all the ordinary"The petitioners allege that these calamities could never have assumed so aggravated a character but from the gross neglect of the House in checking the ruinous expense of the Executive Government. They pray that the system of exorbitant expenditure may be speedily diminished."1817"That an humble Address be presented to His Majesty as followeth:in Court dressMr. J. C. C. DAVIDSON
"A watcher of the atmosphere, a man who takes observations, and, when he finds the wind in a certain quarter, trims to suit it—such a person may be a powerful Minister, but he is no more a great statesman than the man who gets up behind a carriage is a great whip."69686766"but regret that His Majesty's Gracious Speech contains no reference to the very urgent need for co-ordinating the problems and tasks of the Navy, Army and Air Forces for purposes of defence of the British Empire as a whole and for the establishment of machinery to give effect thereto.": I beg to move, at the end of the Question, to add the words,
"A watcher of the atmosphere, a man who takes observations, and, when he finds the wind in a certain quarter, trims to suit it—such a person may be a powerful Minister, but he is no more a great statesman than the man who gets up behind a carriage is a great whip."69686766"but regret that His Majesty's Gracious Speech contains no reference to the very urgent need for co-ordinating the problems and tasks of the Navy, Army and Air Forces for purposes of defence of the British Empire as a whole and for the establishment of machinery to give effect thereto."Major-General Sir J. DAVIDSON
56"Notwithstanding anything in this provision, the date declared as aforesaid shall be conclusive for all purposes of this Act."(2) The date so declared shall be as nearly as may be the date of the exchange or deposit or ratifications of the treaty or treaties of peace.""(1) His Majesty in Council may declare what date is to be treated as the date of the termination of the present War…: May I ask the Prime Minister a question? Some of my constituents have written to ask me why there has been such a long delay in stating that peace has been established. There are a large number of important contracts which are dependent upon a statement by the Government as to the declaration of peace. I have here a copy of the Termination of the Present War (Definition) Act, 1918, in which it says:
56"Notwithstanding anything in this provision, the date declared as aforesaid shall be conclusive for all purposes of this Act."(2) The date so declared shall be as nearly as may be the date of the exchange or deposit or ratifications of the treaty or treaties of peace.""(1) His Majesty in Council may declare what date is to be treated as the date of the termination of the present War…Sir F. BAN BURY
: I beg leave to withdraw the Amendment.Sir J. DAVIDSON
5554: I quite agree with the right hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Thomas) that trade unionists are not entitled to any special protection, because there cannot be one law for trade unionists and another for the rest of the population. In all other cases of murder and mysterious crime, such as men being arrested and suddenly discovered shot in ditches and that sort of thing, is there a special inquiry then,
5554Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: This Report was promised to the House of Commons.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: So have I.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Dismissed?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Why dismiss them?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: And then suppress the findings.Lieut.- Commander KENWORTHY
: Hear, hear!Lieut. Commander KENWORTHY
: They kept order, tooLieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: The more is the pity.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
52: I only rise to make a personal explanation, in view of certain remarks addressed to me opposite by hon. Members because of an observation I made when the Prime Minister was speaking. The Prime Minister, towards the end of his very impassioned speech, his very moving argument, described the way in which his methods, as he considered, were succeeding in Ireland, and restoring what he called law and order, and he held out high hopes of the murderers being caught, and so on. In that part of his speech, in which he hoped the murder gang would be finally broken up, I, and I believe all my hon. Friends on these Benches, entirely agree with him. We hope the murderers will be brought to justice, and punished with the full rigour of the law, and that is the stand we have taken repeatedly in this Chamber. But when the Prime Minister boasts of his success
52Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: The right hon. Gentleman has again and again referred to the whole Irish Nationalist movement as being a gang of murderers.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
53: I will look up the right hon. Gentleman's speeches, and give them to him. [HON. MEMBERS: "Withdraw!"] I am going to justify another thing. [HON. MEMBERS: "Withdraw!"] I will withdraw. I am speaking from recollection, but I will look up the speeches. I did not intend to speak on this question, but, feeling dis-
53Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
757473ad hoc72vis inertiæ7170: I beg to second the Amendment.757473ad hoc72vis inertiæ7170Lieut. - General Sir AYLMER HUNTER-WESTON
: I wish to ask whether the Committee to which the Prime Minister referred is a fresh Parliamentary Committee or a Cabinet Committee?Lord R. CECIL
7978fait accompli77pax Britannica76: In supporting the Amendment I shall be brief, not be-
7978fait accompli77pax Britannica76Major-General SEELY
: The officer is only suspended, not dismissed?Mr. LYLE SAMUEL
"this House will proceed with the utmost severity against all such persons as shall have been wilfully concerned in such bribery or other corrupt practices."6: I confess that there is a certain amount of innate conservatism which is still left in me, and I would have been glad had this proposal not been made by my hon. Friend. He gave me notice when the House met at twelve o'clock that he intended to raise this matter. I have since looked into it, and I will tell
"this House will proceed with the utmost severity against all such persons as shall have been wilfully concerned in such bribery or other corrupt practices."6Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
40: Yes, and the debt of honour. But from the point of view of my right hon. Friend's criticism of the King's Speech, the phrase that matters is "brooking no delay." My right hon. Friend will find it much more relevant than he imagines. When he made that statement undoubtedly he meant it, and the Government meant it; he made it on behalf of the Government after consideration by the Cabinet. He and I have been on more than one Committee for the reform of the House of Lords. The subject is not an easy one. He thought, undoubtedly, when he made that statement, that it was a very easy matter, but he discovered it was not. The reason was that he could not find time. There were other things that came in the way, and he did not see his way clear to conclusions which he thought would be quite satisfactory even to his own supporters in the House of Commons. Therefore, the appointment of a Committee is an essential preliminary. My right hon. Friend does not suggest
40The PRIME MINISTER
3938forfait,37seriatim.36: It is a great pleasure for me to associate myself with the very generous and grateful tribute paid by my right hon. Friend the Member for Paisley (Mr.
3938forfait,37seriatim.36The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
45Laughter.44: With regard to the rest of the company, the company has been dissolved. The other members have been put into other companies, but there is no evidence to identify anybody, either auxiliaries or civilians—because civilians were found under conditions which were undoubtedly suspicious and justified us in coming to the conclusion that they were associated with the crimes. Once the trouble began, there is no doubt at all that from some of the lower quarters of Cork the population came forth and joined in the attack upon these houses and was guilty of looting, but we have not been able to get any evidence even against these civilians, and that is one of the things with which we are confronted. We have taken action. We immediately instituted further inquiries when our attention was called to the position, with the result that we have taken the sternest disciplinary action which it is within our
45Laughter.44The PRIME MINISTER
: After all, I believe an officer is entitled to feel that he has absolute confidence in those in his command. He had no confidence in these seven men for reasons that satisfied him, but for which there was no evidence; and the House must remember that one of the difficulties in Ireland, not merely on the one side, but on the other, is to get evidence, and one of the most promising features in Ireland at the present moment is that for the first time we are beginning to get evidence. The officer in command has been suspended. We were not satisfied that he had acted in a way that commends itself to the judgment of the Executive.The PRIME MINISTER
: I am coming to that. But let me give the House of Commons the facts as reported to us.The PRIME MINISTER
: The hon. Member's idea is that you should accept every statement that attacks a policeman or a soldier, but if anyone dares to put in a word—The PRIME MINISTER
41: A Cabinet Committee with a view to framing a scheme. As far as outside committees are concerned, the subject has been dis-
41The PRIME MINISTER
: It was not promised. I have looked at the answer.The PRIME MINISTER
: You cannot do anything beyond that without evidence against them.The PRIME MINISTER
43"I promise that the question of publication will be considered by the Chief Secretary. I cannot go beyond that."42: The answer was given by my right hon. Friend the
43"I promise that the question of publication will be considered by the Chief Secretary. I cannot go beyond that."42The PRIME MINISTER
: I will explain that. The first was purely the ordinary inquiry, which is substituted for an inquest. The military inquiry is an inquiry which always takes place, reviewing the whole of the facts. The other inquiry is one into the deaths. This is an inquiry into the whole of the incidents, and this is the one to which I invite witnesses.The PRIME MINISTER
51: The hon. and gallant Gentleman likes rebellion everywhere. The police have recovered their authority. The Courts of the Crown have recovered their authority. Jurors are appearing. Magistrates who never functioned are now coming back; litigants are coming back. The Courts are re-
51The PRIME MINISTER
: The Sinn Fein police patrolled the towns. The head of the police told me how, when he went there, he was held up by a Sinn Fein police patrol. That is six months ago. The police were besieged in their barracks. There were 600 of them murdered. They could hardly ever go out. They were boycotted; they were insulted. Their wives and children were boycotted and insulted. The necessaries of life were denied them. Milk from creameries, food, groceries, clothing— they were even denied them. That was the state of things six months ago. What is the condition now? The boycott is completely at an end. The insulting of the police in the streets has gone. The Sinn Fein patrols, military and police, are gone. The Sinn Fein courts have disappeared into cellars.The PRIME MINISTER
: I am glad to hear that, because I can see now the spirit which animates the hon. and gallant Gentleman. [HON. MEMBERS: "Traitor!" and "Disgraceful!"] Sinn Fein soldiers patrolled the country.The PRIME MINISTER
49: At any rate, there was firing that took place from the direction of the railway, and then there was firing back. If there is any evidence of that kind, let my right hon. Friend
49The PRIME MINISTER
50: I think my right hon. Friend opposite is mistaken. These things which he has told me now I have heard for the first time, and I think my right hon. Friend is wrong; he is forgetting. The statement which he has made now is made for the first time. I have heard it for the first time. Let him bring forward evidence to substantiate those statements, and I will give him a guarantee on behalf of the Government that they will be thoroughly investigated by a perfectly honourable and impartial tribunal such as is set up by the military in the area under their control. I am not going to prejudge the decision of the court; I am only giving two invitations to my right hon. Friend at the present moment. The first is that he should supply us with every evidence that will enable us to elucidate this incident. The second thing I want him to do is to try and persuade the railwaymen at the Mallow station to help us to find out the murderer. That was the beginning of the trouble there.50The PRIME MINISTER
: We shall take action upon any findings which military officers, who are men of honour, will find. They examined into the Cork episode impartially and fearlessly, and it is upon their findings that we have taken action. We shall do exactly the same thing here, but we must get some evidence first of all We can only act upon evidence. The story of the police, in so far as we have received it, is that when they came there firing still proceeded from the railway station. It is not an impossible story, after all.The PRIME MINISTER
: There were civilian witnesses at the inquiry. I do not mind an interruption as long as it is in the least well informed, but that interruption is not so. As a matter of fact, it was not our fault that there were not more civilian witnesses. There were members of the corporation, including the Lord Mayor of Cork, whom we were anxious to summon before this Committee to give evidence, but they fled to America rather than give the evidence. After the military took every step to get the most important civilian witness in Cork, and he refused to give evidence, it is rather hard that they should be accused of not taking the evidence of civilian witnesses. I hope that is not the spirit in which those who are discharging a very difficult task are to be criticised in the House of Commons. That is all that happened with regard to this inquiry. The question was put whether we were prepared to publish this Report. That is a very important decision, and one which you must take, not in reference to one particular inquiry, but in reference to the whole of these inquiries.The PRIME MINISTER
48: From my knowledge of my right hon. Friend, I was not putting that question to him merely as a debating catch, but because I want his assistance. Here, according to him, were twenty or thirty railwaymen, and it is very odd that not one of them has come forward to give evidence about a murder committed just outside the station. The Police Inspector came from the direction of the station, and the murderer must have been passing in and out there. Not one of them has come forward to give evidence about that. Let me put another question. There was an inquiry instituted. The father of one of the railwaymen who was killed— Morain—came to the inquest and asked for an adjournment, I think in order to get evidence. The inquiry was adjourned from the 2nd February to the 7th February to enable him to bring any evidence he had before the inquiry. When the 7th came he was not there; there was no evidence forthcoming. I hear complaints that no civilian witnesses are examined, but here was a court of inquiry by the military adjourned for four days at the request of the father of one of the poor men who was killed in order to enable him to bring evidence, and there was no evidence forthcoming. Is that the fault of the military or of the police? They were not merely willing that there should
48The PRIME MINISTER
: It was not the next day that these men were killed.The PRIME MINISTER
: No.The PRIME MINISTER
:—if anyone dares to put in a word on the other side he should be laughed at. I cannot accept that position.The PRIME MINISTER
47: I will now convey to the House of Commons the statements with regard to the incident at Mallow in so far as we have received information. I will promise my right hon. Friend that I will certainly have a further investigation made into all the facts which he has put before me tonight. There was a police officer, who had been taking, I think, a friend either to the station or to the hotel—I think to the hotel. As he was returning with his wife to his home, shots were fired from the railway station without any warning. The shots must have been fired by somebody who must have seen him and who must have seen that he was accompanied with his wife. There were several shots fired recklessly, without any regard to the fact that there was not merely the officer there, but that there was a woman with him. She was killed, and he was wounded. [HON. MEMBERS: "Shame!"] My right hon. Friend very properly used language of execration of that horrible murder, but do not let us
47The PRIME MINISTER
8483828180: My hon. and gallant Friends have rendered a useful service by calling attention to this very important matter. It is desirable that it should be discussed in Parliament. It is helpful as a means of creating opinion not merely in Parliament but in the Services, and I have no doubt that it is quite useful in keeping the Government up to the mark on this question. My hon. and gallant Friends have stated their case with remarkable concisenes and with very great ability. I am entirely in sympathy with them, and I am not using the word in a Parliamentary sense, because I have now had some experience of war. As Minister of Munitions, as Minister of War, as Chancellor of the Exchequer and as Prime Minister I saw war in all its different aspects, in so far as a civilian could see it, and it was driven into my mind then that we were suffering from lack of co-ordination. The Departments went into the War, not so much as though they were Departments of the Government of one country, but rather as allies. The Navy was a very good ally of the War Office, and the War Office was a very sound ally of the Navy, and then we found a third ally in the Air Ministry. But they were allies, and it was very difficult to get them always to act together. I have found, wherever we touched a problem such as the question of more ammunition, there was a fight between the Departments. I must say the Navy behaved remarkably well. I remember on one occasion when I got a telegram from Field-Marshal Lord French during the battle of Loos. They were expending more ammunition than they anticipated, and ammunition was urgently required. I went to the Admiralty and asked them to stop manufacturing for three weeks, in order that
8483828180The PRIME MINISTER
: My right hon. Friend the Leader of the House will be very pleased to take the right hon. Baronet at his word.The PRIME MINISTER
: I should like to answer my right hon. Friend. He is quite right. If we were to ratify the last of the treaties before we met the Turkish delegates they might say: "What is the good of our coming if you already have ratified the Treaty in its present form?" We have, therefore, held it over for that very reason. They will be here, I think, next week, and if we arrive, as I hope we shall, at an agreement, I shall ask the House to ratify the Treaty right away.The PRIME MINISTER
: May I suggest, as the Government have not been averse to passing Bills through all their stages after 11 o'clock, and in one day in order to gratify people, that they shall, if it is necessary, deal with this matter similarly, for I am certain that no one in this House, or I fancy in the other House, will in any way object to it.Sir F. BANBURY
5857: I am sure the House will give me its indulgence when I say this is only my second day in the House. I rise to call attention to a very serious omission in the Gracious Speech from the Throne. There is no reference whatever made to any amendment of the Workmen's Compensation Act. I am quite certain that when the Speech is read in the country it will be received with astonishment and with indignation by the whole of the trade union movement. During the War many deputations waited upon the Government. I had the honour to accompany those deputations on several occasions. One deputation waited upon Sir George (now Lord) Cave when he was Home Secretary. They had a sympathetic hearing from the Home Secretary. Liberal promises were made to amend the Act. The Leader of the Government appointed a Committee known as the Holman Gregory Committee to look into the matter. That Committee had 80 sittings, and took evidence from 106 witnesses. They made a Report to the Government on 7th July, 1920. Up till now nothing
5857Mr. G. BARKER
: No.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: Never. I challenge the hon. and gallant Gentleman to mention one sentence I have ever uttered as Chief Secretary for Ireland disparaging the whole Irish race, as being in sympathy with, or supporting, this murder gang. I have always drawn a distinction between them.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Never!Sir H. GREENWOOD
28"My Ministers further trust that the work of the Committee now examining the question of the reform of the Second Chamber will be finished in time to permit of proposals being submitted to Parliament during the course of the present Session.""My Ministers further trust that the work of the Committee"—2726252423: It is agreeable to one who, like myself, has had a long Parliamentary life, and has seen the arduous and delicate task of moving and second- the Address performed many times with an infinite variety of degrees of excellence and the reverse—it is agreeable to one who has had that experience to be able, as I am able to do, not as a mere conventional tribute, but in all sincerity, to congratulate my two hon. Friends who have just sat down on the manner in which they have acquitted themselves. The Mover (Mr. Davidson), who was very temperate in his speech, rather alarmed me by inventing what, I believe, is a new logical instrument— a permanent dilemma. Most of us who have had experience of Parliamentary dialectics have had enough to do in struggling to escape from the horns of a temporary dilemma, sometimes with very indifferent success. But I think I understood my hon. Friend to suggest that this particular logical difficulty was the property, possession, and appanage of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and when the Budget comes, in due course of time, we shall see how far the Chancellor of the Exchequer is able to extricate himself from that new logical difficulty. My hon. Friend (Mr. W. Fildes), who seconded the Address with so much geniality, referred to what, if his view be correct, is a change since my time, at any rate, in the attitude of the House on licensing legislation. He seemed to think that this Parliament regarded it from a perfectly detached point of view—one it may be not in accordance with the feelings of democracy as representatives of which they are elected. I think he is mistaken. I do
28"My Ministers further trust that the work of the Committee now examining the question of the reform of the Second Chamber will be finished in time to permit of proposals being submitted to Parliament during the course of the present Session.""My Ministers further trust that the work of the Committee"—2726252423Mr. ASQUITH
"Thus the intervention of the House in such cases is rendered unnecessary by the direct operation of the law."5: I desire to oppose this Sessional Order. I do so on the ground that it is obsolete, and that for nearly forty years it has been absolutely contrary to the established law of the land. Perhaps the House will bear with me for one moment whilst I explain exactly what is my point. It will be remembered—[HON. MEMBERS: "Speak up!"]—that the matter of election petitions at one time was dealt with by special Committees of this House, and that in the year 1862 the jurisdiction was transferred to the Law Courts. Things went on in that way until 1879, when, under the Judicature Act, it was arranged that two Judges of the King's Bench should be the tribunal for dealing with these matters. The matter so stood until 1883, when this House, as I submit, deliberately divested itself of any further
"Thus the intervention of the House in such cases is rendered unnecessary by the direct operation of the law."5Mr. BOTTOMLEY
rose—rose—Mr. LAWSON
: Oh, oh.Mr. LAWSON
: I want to put this point, that for six months we have heard statements here which have been distinctly disproved, and I say so. [HON. MEMBERS: "Sit down," and "Speech!"]Mr. LAWSON
rose—rose—Mr. LAWSON
: Yes.Mr. LAWSON
: What is it?Mr. SPEAKER
: Does the hon. Member rise to a point of Order?Mr. SPEAKER
: That is a matter for Debate; it is not a point of Order.Mr. SPEAKER
: I have to acquaint the House that this House has this day attended His Majesty in the House of Peers, to hear His Majesty's Most Gracious Speech to both Houses of Parliament, in pursuance of His Majesty's Commands, and of which I have for greater accuracy obtained a copy, as followeth:—Mr. SPEAKER
62616059: I want to add my protest to that of my hon. Friend who has just spoken in regard to what I consider to be a grave omission from His Majesty's Speech. On this point I wish no better audience than the Home Secretary himself. It is not the first time that I have
62616059Mr. SEXTON
35343332313029: Unfortunately I am unable to follow the line of my right hon. Friend, inasmuch as it will be necessary even at this stage of the Session to be somewhat controversial. I associate myself whole-heartedly with the compliment paid to the Mover and Seconder of the Address. They have performed their very difficult task with skill, tact, and ability which have commended themselves to Members in all parts of the House.35343332313029Mr. J. H. THOMAS
: Why not have an inquiry?Mr. THOMAS
: The question is put to me, and I will answer it. I not only say "Yes," but my right hon. Friend knows that in Dublin itself the question was put to me from an audience of 2,000 Irishmen, "Will you get the military shifted?" And my answer in Dublin was, "No, not whilst murder goes on. Will you stop murder?"Mr. THOMAS
: That is the importance of it, that it was the next day that they were killed.Mr. THOMAS
: Yes.Mr. THOMAS
: It was the next day.Mr. THOMAS
: I sent it to the Chief Secretary five days ago.Mr. THOMAS
: Without civilian witnesses.Mr. MILLS
656463"except with fresh Cabinet authority, schemes involving expenditure not yet in operation are to remain in abeyance.""to reduce expenditure to the lowest level consistent with the well-being of the Empire.": I deeply regret that there is any necessity for my entering into this Debate, but in the Gracious Speech from the Throne these words occur:
656463"except with fresh Cabinet authority, schemes involving expenditure not yet in operation are to remain in abeyance.""to reduce expenditure to the lowest level consistent with the well-being of the Empire."Mr. R. RICHARDSON
: And a "debt of honour."Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
2221: I rise to second the Motion submitted to the House by the hon. Member for Hemel Hempstead. With regard to foreign affairs, it is probable that there will be a pretty wide divergence of opinion, but the House will be unanimous in that His Majesty's Ministers have been faced with a situation of great complexity and many difficulties, a situation which has not fallen to the lot of any body of men to deal with in the history of our land for some time, and especially is that true of the burden of responsibility and anxiety which has fallen on the shoulders of the Prime Minister and of the Leader of the House. I would ask, therefore, that in our deliberations we should bear in mind the exceptional difficulties of the situation. If the results of all the negotiations have not been entirely as all the Members of the House would like them to be, I think we can say that His Majesty's Ministers have striven their best for that which they consider to be in the best interests of this country and of the world. I observe from the Gracious Speech that it is hoped to resume trade with Russia. If an arrangement satisfactory to His Majesty's Ministers and to the House can be come to, I think we are all agreed that it will be all to the good, because in pre-War days Russia made a most substantial contribution in foodstuffs and raw materials, and the world needs these things greatly. I hope that when this agreement comes into operation it may fulfil all the anticipations of those who have promoted it. This House has been termed the "Mother of Legislatures," and I am sure it is to all of us a matter of special pride to receive the intimation in the King's Speech of the inauguration of the new Legislative Councils in India. I am confident that the whole House and the whole Empire will be delighted if success attends the efforts of these Councils and if they make for the great and lasting good of the Indian Empire. Just at this time, I think, it would be well that we should remember the great services that have been given to India and to
2221in Court dressMr. FILDES
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeLieut.-Colonel Sir F. HALL
: Then does the right hon. Gentleman think that the income for 1924–25 will not show the disastrous results anticipated in the question that I have put, namely, that the £10,000,000 additional revenue there will still be £500,000 loss?Sir F. HALL
: Can the right hon. Gentleman explain how it is that the charges for telephones have increased so much less than the charges for railways, or the charges for articles sold by firms which are run on business lines?Mr. MacCALLUM SCOTT
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeSir F. HALL
: Has the right hon. Gentleman taken up the matter with the trade unions and drawn their attention to the necessity of allowing these men to earn their own living instead of prohibiting these men, who have fought for their country, being in a position to do this work when they went to do it?Sir F. HALL
: If the worst portions of the Report were given by the Prime Minister yesterday, what objection is there to publishing the best portions?Mr. THOMAS
: May I ask the Leader of the House to whom questions on agricultural subjects should be addressed, seeing that we have not now the advantage of the presence of the Minister of Agriculture?Lieut.-Colonel A. MURRAY
: Will the right hem. Gentleman in that Motion not deprive private Members of the right to introduce Bills, because there are some private Members' Bills which obtain a Second Reading after 11 o'clock without a Division and go straight upstairs, and it will be very unfair to deprive private Members of the right to introduce those Bills. I hope he will bear that in mind.Lieut.-Colonel A. MURRAY
: What is your remedy? Let us have it.Captain S. WILSON
: If you gave them for nothing, they would not understand them.Mr. J. JONES
: We are just imagining what they are going to do with it!Mr. J. JONES
: Rubbish.Mr. J. JONES
199198197196: If I remember rightly, the last speaker began his observations by blaming this Government and its predecessors for not following a definite line of policy in dealing with unemployment. When I heard that, I must confess that I pricked up my ears, for I thought that, at least, we should hear something definite about dealing with this most difficult of all problems. I am afraid I was disappointed. I hope that my hon. Friend will not think that I am inclined to be offensive if I allow myself to observe that, if he would only give us a little less information, and would only draw a little less on the vast store of knowledge that he undoubtedly possesses, it would be easier to follow him, and I think his contributions to our Debates generally would be much more effective. It is not for me to blame any hon. Member for being indefinite, for I find it very difficult to be definite myself on a problem of this nature. It is impossible for anyone to suggest a definite remedy for the disease which we are seeking to cure. It is too large and comprehensive; it is too subtle: it is too much subject to influences over which no man and no body of men has any control. Although I disagree with my hon. Friend in many of his observations, I agree with him in one or two of them. I agree with him when he says that a great deal of the industrial unrest today is caused by what he calls concentration of capital. I look upon these great limited companies and great trusts, where the worker is under the control of an assistant manager, where the assistant manager has to appeal to a manager, where the manager has a board of directors, and where the directors have the great body of the shareholders, as productive of an immense amount of unhappiness and unrest, because the personal interest is entirely eliminated. If that is true of our large industrial trusts, surely it will be
199198197196Lieut.-Colonel BUCKLEY
205204203202201200: The hon. and gallant Gentleman has told us that he had no clear cut remedy. I think we shall all agree with him that while he was able to pick holes in the various solutions put forward, except falling back on the suggestion that work alone will save the situation he had not much to
205204203202201200Mr. TREVELYAN THOMSON
: The 12½ per cent, war bonus is not an invention of the other day. That was the action of the Government of two or three years ago, and the sliding scale has been applicable during the last year or year and a half, irrespective of any war bonus. It has been based entirely on selling price. Until selling price comes down it is not fair to ask wages to come down, because always remember in the old days when selling price went up employers got the advantage, which they had under every sliding scale, of the lower wages for the first month or two. They have had the gain, and they must also take the risk of the loss which comes at the other end when the sliding scale comes down. Capital must face this loss, and employers must be prepared to sell existing stocks at a loss, because until we do that we shall never get on to a sound foundation again. I submit that a solution will only lie when you have unity of purpose with all sections of the community working together to get out of the tremendous morass in which we are, because one knows that unemployment, bad as it is to-day, will be worse to-morrow and worse the month after unless the facts are realised and the Government are prepared to meet the situation by granting a real living maintenance allowance and not the paltry 18s. which they foreshadow.Mr. THOMSON
221220Laughter.219218217216215: I cannot enter into high finance, neither am I able to boast of my knowledge of the law. I can only claim to represent a constituency where this problem affects us very seriously, and I am not going, if I can possibly help it, to talk clap-trap. I leave that to more educated gentlemen, but one would imagine that the problem we are discussing to-night is something new, and that all of a sudden we have discovered various remedies for the disease from which we are now suffering. I joined the Labour movement more years ago than I care to remember, when in all our club-rooms and branches we were discussing this very problem, 35 years ago. Then it was not so serious as it is to-day, but I was taught, in the economic school that I happened to graduate in—not the University of Oxford, but the university of poverty—that unemployment was due to the fact that those who produced the wealth of every country were not able to buy back with the wages which they received the goods which their labour had created, that the real cause of unemployment is under-consumption by the great mass of the population, and I want to venture to suggest that although political economy may be described as the dismal science, yet I believe, if it is properly studied and looked into, it becomes one of the most interesting of sciences. I do not know much about capital, only the lack of it, but I have heard it described as "cop-it-all" and "keep-it all," Judging from some of the speeches I have heard in this Debate, that is as near a definition as possible.221220Laughter.219218217216215Mr. J. JONES
232231: I should like to draw the attention of the Secretary for Scotland to a small local matter. The House will remember that last year a Bill was passed by which the two areas of Edinburgh and Leith were amalgamated. That involved the merging of the two municipalities and also the union of the two educational authorities. Under the Act power was vested in the Secretary for Scotland to apportion to the old burgh of Leith its proper number of representatives
232231Captain W. BENN
: Does that not apply equally to Mesopotamia and other countries?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: I was laughing at the Prime Minister, not at you.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Work short time.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: How do you know?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Why?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: No.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: No, the Government deny that.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Trade is going on now.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Will the finding be made public when it is concluded?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Has the right hon. Gentleman considered the position of the English insurance companies who have very big liabilities in regard to the burnings in Cork; and also the position of the persons who have lost their property in Cork and are not insured and to whom the question of compensation is a very serious matter?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Is this the end of the matter? Is there to be nothing more done?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Has the official inquiry been held? Is there to be any inquiry to discover further facts?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
155: I hope the House will pardon me if I address it from the point of view of the ex-service men. When I say that I represent 140,000 ex-service men in Manchester and Salford I may be pardoned for putting forward their claims. Three weeks ago it came to the notice of the Joint Council that there was some distress amongst these men. We made inquiries, and the condition of them, their wives and children is too appalling for words. I am not speaking from hearsay. I have visited these people in their homes with other members of this Joint Council. In the majority of cases we find the furniture in pawn, all their clothes except what they stand up in in pawn, and no food whatever in the house. I should like to give a few cases, because I want not only hon. Members, but the public to grasp this. In one case I visited an ex-service man and his wife and two children. I found them in one room. The only furniture was one mattress. Four of them were sleeping on it, and they were starving. If we had not come to their assistance they would not have been alive today. In another instance of a widow and three children the only means of subsistence coming into the house is a quart of milk a day from the Welfare Committee155Lieut.-Commander ASTBURY
bloc: There never will be any talk of revolution or riot. If there was any trouble to-day you could rely on 50,000 ex-service men in Manchester forming a blocLieut.-Commander ASTBURY
159Laughter.158157156: I will give an instance. What is happening in
159Laughter.158157156Lieut.-Commander ASTBURY
98: Is it not a fact that this mandate for Mesopotamia has been already submitted to the Council of the League, and was laid before the Council at Geneva, so that there is no reason in the world under this Covenant, which I
98Lord R. CECIL
: They are run on business lines.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: I hope not. But I do not like to prophesy so many years ahead. I trust there will be no deficit.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: The Estimates quoted by my hon. Friend require some modification in respect of additions to the War bonus which have fallen due since they were framed and concession to large users recommended by the Select Committee, but they are otherwise correctly stated. He has omitted, however, the important qualification that they are based on the costs of labour and material ruling in May, 1920. As time goes on, the pre-War plant of the telephone system has Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the essential facts as to who is responsible for the burnings in Cork are well known to the loyalist members who still live there?Mr. NEWBOULD
: Does the right hon. Gentleman not see the advisability of making the exact facts known in this case?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: In view of the statement of the Leader of the House that it is the Government's intention to take all the time up to the end of the financial year, may I ask if it is proposed to preserve the rights of Members by the wording of their Motion; that is to say, will their rights under the ballot be secured by saying that the first Wednesday or Friday, as the case may be, after the termination of the Government allocation, will be given to the Member who obtains the first place in the ballot? I think that that has been done on previous occasions, and I think it is all-important that it should be done now. If it is not done, we may as well not proceed with this ballot.Mr. A. HENDERSON
179178177176175174: I listened with great interest to the point taken by the right hon. Member for my native city of Norwich (Mr. G. Roberts), who said, in so many words, "We shall never solve this unemployment problem till we have re-established our foreign trade." The right hon. Member for Gorbals (Mr. Barnes) took the same point, and my hon. Friend, who has seen trouble in the boot trade also, the Member for Wellingborough (Mr. W. R. Smith) took the same point. I am firmly convinced that in dealing with these points we are dealing with what may eventually prove to be the solution of the miseries of unemployment. The right hon. Gentleman who sits for Norwich talked about exchanges, but he did not touch the point, nor has any other hon. Member, with which I should like to deal
179178177176175174Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
: So far as basic rates are concerned, but war bonuses of every sort fall outside the sliding scale.Mr. A. HOPKINSON
222: The question has been asked, What can we do to solve the unemployed question? The real trouble with us is that the Government is pretending that it is able to do it. In the nature of things it is quite impossible for any Government to do any such thing as cure unemployment. That is one of the things that go beyond the function of government. The trouble has come upon the Government really as the result of the establishment of the Labour Ministry, established in accordance with the demands of the Labour party. Since the Ministry was invented, most of us who have to deal with matters of this sort, and look after business, see that it is an absurdity in the political system of a free country. It is part of an attempt to make the State something more than a policeman. We have therefore set up this wonderful device of a "Generous State" which shall relieve us of all those individual obligations which tradition and authority have imposed upon the individual. The function of the Labour Ministry is to see that the working classes of this country get more wages than the industry in which they are engaged can bear. It succeeded most remarkably in that task during the War. But, unfortunately, as a result of the State taking over such functions, we are at present confronted with the fact that some million or more of our citizens are unemployed. There was a certain document issued by the Trade Union Congress and the Labour party, and although there
222Mr. A. HOPKINSON
: There is the Restoration of Pre-War Practices Act.Mr. A. HOPKINSON
230229228227226225224223: In Mesopotamia there has not been a destruction of capital, but quite the reverse. The next point is that there should be a stabilisation of exchange by Act of Parliament. There, I am sorry to say, the Government have also put their foot in it. I understand that we are to have two Bills both from the same source, that is the Board of Trade. One of them is an Act of Parliament to adjust the exchanges with Germany, so as not to put
230229228227226225224223Mr. HOPKINSON
: What I have said is based on information given to me as to the terms of the Treaty. I must certainly have that established before I can say anything more.Mr. BONAR LAW
102That the ballot for the precedence of the said Bills and Motions be taken on Thursday, 17th February, at a convenient time and place, to be appointed by Mr. Speaker, and that the presentation of Bills on Friday, 18th February, be taken as soon after Twelve of the clock as Mr. Speaker may deem convenient.""That no Bills, other than Government Bills, be introduced in anticipation of the ballot, and that all Members who desire to ballot, whether for Bills or for Motions, for Tuesday, 22nd February, and Tuesday, 1st March, and Wednesday, 23rd February, and Wednesday, 2nd March, do hand in their names at the Table during the sitting of the House on Tuesday, 15th February, or Wednesday, 16th February, and that a copy of the Notice of such Bill or Motion be handed in at the latest during the sitting of the House on Thursday, 17th February.: I beg to move,
102That the ballot for the precedence of the said Bills and Motions be taken on Thursday, 17th February, at a convenient time and place, to be appointed by Mr. Speaker, and that the presentation of Bills on Friday, 18th February, be taken as soon after Twelve of the clock as Mr. Speaker may deem convenient.""That no Bills, other than Government Bills, be introduced in anticipation of the ballot, and that all Members who desire to ballot, whether for Bills or for Motions, for Tuesday, 22nd February, and Tuesday, 1st March, and Wednesday, 23rd February, and Wednesday, 2nd March, do hand in their names at the Table during the sitting of the House on Tuesday, 15th February, or Wednesday, 16th February, and that a copy of the Notice of such Bill or Motion be handed in at the latest during the sitting of the House on Thursday, 17th February.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I have already said that I will reconsider whether or not we should publish it. Obviously when that is done the other question can be considered also.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I cannot reply to the last part of the question. As regards the first, I am aware that there were differences of opinion in the Council of the League of Nations as to the desirability of publication. The publication by the "Philadelphia Ledger" was, I believe, unauthorised, and that in itself would not be any reason for our publishing it.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Most of the questions which have been put to me could be more suitably dealt with when I move the Motion to which they refer, and I am not prepared to deal with them now as it would involve a discussion which would be out of order and would not be desirable. As regards breaking up the time afterwards, that, of course, can, and no doubt will, be raised by the hon. Member on Tuesday, which is the day I hope to make the Motion, but I can hold out no hope that we shall be able to do that. My hon. Friend behind says we have such a small quota of Government legislation that we shall have lots of time for anything else. The number of Bills in the King's Speech is not large, but their importance is great, and I do not anticipate that we shall have any superfluous time. As regards Key Industries, I did not know my hon. Friend had any idea of having it introduced as a private Bill. If so, I should recommend him not to adopt that course. As regards the question of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henderson), if I understand it, it is whether or not, should we find—and I shall be very glad if it should prove possible, though I hardly expect it—that we do not need to take all the Fridays up to the end of the financial year, would the hon. Member who gets the first ballot have a right to change for the day he had chosen back to the first date. I do not think that would be either wise or fair. I think he must make the decision which day he will choose, and will have to abide by that.Mr. BONAR LAW
: That is not my understanding of the point. My understanding of the terms of the Treaty is that Mandates shall first be considered by the League of Nations before being made public. I am not myself perfectly familiar with all the terms of the Treaty, and I will look into that again.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I am informed by the Foreign Office that the conditions of the Treaty provide that Mandates shall first be submitted to the League of Nations before they are published anywhere. I think it is pretty obvious that if every Parliament interested is to have a discussion on every possible Mandate to be submitted to the League of Nations, you might as well close down the League of Nations.Mr. BONAR LAW
: If that doctrine were to be adopted in regard to the League of Nations, it really would mean that the League of Nations could not carry on its functions. Obviously every subject cannot be discussed by every Parliament.Mr. BONAR LAW
: It must be obvious to the House that if in every case of this kind there is first to be a discussion in all the Parliaments, it would be impossible to carry through the business at all. I have already said to my hon. Friend that I will make myself familiar with the terms of the Treaty and will look into it again and see if it is possible to publish the Mandate.Mr. BONAR LAW
: If they are addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, arrangements will be made that answers shall be given.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The Treaty lays it down that all Mandates are to be first submitted to the League of Nations, and the Government intend to carry out the conditions of the Treaty. The answer to both parts of the question is, therefore, in the negative.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The hon. Baronet surely forgets that we have already committed the House to possible expenditure by accepting the Mandate. The terms of the Mandate are not so important as the acceptance.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Whether or not this is the end of the matter does not depend upon me or the Government, but as there is to be a Debate upon it on Monday, I venture to prophesy that this is not the end of the matter.Mr. BONAR LAW
: That is a subject that will be better discussed when we have a discussion, rather than by question and answer.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Obviously, if by any chance the House should take the view against the decision of the Government, naturally a rebate will be given.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I hope that an opportunity may be found for discussing this subject on the Address. As the House knows, the charges will not come into effect till April.Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
: That, of course, does not depend upon me; it is a question for Mr. SPEAKER. But I hope an opportunity may be found.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Does my right hon. Friend recollect that the Attorney-General for Ireland, in response to a question which I put to him, stated that the Report would be presented to the House, and said that it was the usual practice so to do?Sir D. MACLEAN
: Am I to understand that the Prime Minister quoted from an official document yesterday?Sir D. MACLEAN
: In view of the importance of this matter, may I ask my right hon. Friend if he will reconsider the point with a view to allowing the House of Commons—which, after all, has to find the money—an opportunity of discussing it, so that, when it has discussed the matter, it will be able to give not only its financial but its moral support to the proposals of the Government?Sir D. MACLEAN
: Does the question of closing the mines arise?Mr. BALFOUR
: Are they stopping the pumping and closing the mines?Mr. BALFOUR
: Has any question arisen of closing the pits? Is it not merely a case of reducing labour?Mr. G. BALFOUR
147146: I will try to present them accurately in this case. The right hon. Gentleman told the House just now that two or three hundred bricklayers were registered as out of work. But it is well known by hon. Members opposite that there are none really out of work and that the figures quoted simply indicate those men who may be passing from one job to another. Then we were told there were 6,000 applicants for bricklayers. It is very well known that the number of bricklayers wanted is not merely 6,000 but 60,000. Men do not apply for bricklayers because they know they cannot obtain them. I was at Reading last week. I saw a great building in pro-
147146Mr. BARNES
143142141140: No, it is not going on now. It is going on outside where parties are taking their own risk. The Government has nothing whatever to do with it. And the hon. and gallant Gentleman can do that if he likes. You can send your goods there if you like to chance getting payment for them. Whatever value there may be in that position you have it now. That is not the point. The point is, can you get anything further out of Russia? I am submitting, even under this draft agreement, you could not because here is a draft agreement which involves gold being sent here, and it may be attachable. I submit to the House that no trade is possible under those conditions. I further submit that no Government, not even a Labour Government, could give a privileged position to Russia to alter that.143142141140Mr. BARNES
145144: I am going to give practical arguments. I have had a good many years' experience of this "vale of tears." I have heard a good deal of talk about the present system, and it always makes me despair to hear that sort of talk in a country that has given a vote to pretty well every man and woman in it. I think it is time we got beyond all that. I am no defender of the present system. I believe the wage system is wrong because it does not enlist the willing and efficient service of the worker, but all that is nothing to do with the Government, and it is a system that has grown up over many years. I say, and I say it with extreme regret, that you will get no better world until you have made a better use of the world you live in. Taking things as they are there seems to be three causes for the present unemployment. The first is that the world has been disrupted by the. War. Before the War goods were exchanged between country and country more or less efficiently by means of gold and credit, but that time has gone. The world has been rent in twain. I agree with what my right hon. Friend has said that what is needed are ways and means by which these poorer countries who used to be our customers should be placed once, more in a position to buy from us. I exclude Russia because she has now started on a career of her own. She says, "I have got something to do." I should say one of the main things necessary in a large sense is to get the world going, and to aid in that the Government should actively lend its support to the agencies now afoot to give credits to poor countries so that, as speedily as possible, they may again start to buy goods.145144Mr. BARNES
: If the moulders made that demand they should have had it satisfied. My point is that the moulders were only a section; they were morally bound by the acceptance by a larger body to which they belonged of certain terms. They struck work, not against the employers so much as against their fellow workmen.Mr. BARNES
: Well, I do not know all the details, so I will drop that, and will take the case of the bricklayers.Mr. BARNES
: I ask any hon. Member present as a matter of common sense: is any trade possible under those conditions?Mr. BARNES
: The probability is that if you sent goods to Russia a law case would be raised, and that the gold would be attachable for some former debt of Russia.Mr. BARNES
: It has been put forward by my right hon. Friend (Mr. Clynes)—and I speak of him with all kindness I am sure—that resumption of trade with Russia would be one thing by which we could lessen unemployment in this country. That is, I think, relevant to the point under discussion. Although I note that the right hon. Gentleman who opened the Debate had very little to say about it, it is in the minds of many of those who follow him outside—and, therefore, it is germane to the discussion—to see how that will affect the unemployment problem. I put it to the House that the resumption of trade with Russia, be it good or ill, will not affect the problem to any appreciable extent.Mr. BARNES
139: The right hon. Gentleman has brought up the question of the draft agreement. Perhaps I may say a word or two upon that, for it further emphasises my argument as to the hopelessness of looking to Russia for any relief out of our present trouble. Let me take the point about the draft agreement. The right hon. Gentleman knows per-
139Mr. BARNES
; I know, and everybody else knows, that Russia is absolutely disorganised. Russia has got nothing to give you. If Russia had anything to give you at all it would be food, and it would be given to the detriment of Russia. Although we know there is plenty of food in Southern Russia we also all know that there is no transport system to get it here.Mr. BARNES
138: Pre-revolutionary or otherwise, it did not matter a bit. I am trying to apply my mind to the circumstances under which we are living
138Mr. BARNES
137136: I rise to offer a few observations more or less of an impartial character as between the two Front Benches. To prove my impartiality I shall offer a faithful word to each of them. First of all, with regard to the Government. I am quite disposed to believe that a good deal of the fulminations on the other side are true. I say that because of my own experience. Fifteen months ago the Government came under certain obligations by the terms of the Treaty of Peace signed by the Government. Among them was the obligation, as I thought until yesterday, and as I think they themselves thought until—I do not know how long ago—the obligation to submit conventions carried by a two-thirds majority at the Labour Conferences to the competent authority of the country. I have been badgering Ministers, and I have lobbied them. I have written letters to them. I have put questions on the Floor to them, and up to this very day nothing has been done by the two Ministers concerned—I refer to the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Health—to give effect to the obligations I have mentioned. For that reason I think it is perfectly true that some of the things said from the
137136Mr. G. BARNES
: It is not quite consistent with the Treaty that the Mandate should be discussed by this House with a view to giving instructions to our delegates on the Council of the League of Nations; and if that is not done, is it not a fact that we are committed to expenditure, seeing that after it has passed the Council we cannot modify it?Mr. G. BARNES
161160: The hon. Member who has just spoken is perfectly entitled to claim that no accusation of lack of sympathy could lie against any section of this House in regard to the question of unemployment. To whatever party or section we belong, we are all profoundly moved by the grievances of the unemployed, and are profoundly anxious to discover anything that will palliate the problem. I feel rather keenly on this point, because the other day I read in a newspaper a statement, attributed to me, to the effect that when I was a Member of the Government I said, in the name and on behalf of the Government, that we had our plans so carefully prepared that within two months after the cessation of war everybody would be in full employment. Anybody who knows me would admit that I was never so foolish as to make use of a statement of that character. I am certain that my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister will bear me out on this point, that I have long held the opinion that this is perhaps the most baffling problem of modern times. I cannot think that any party or any Government could have it within its power or its competence to adopt an absolute solution of this problem of unemployment. Therefore I am prepared to accept the principle of work or maintenance, although it may not be in the exact form preferred by my hon. Friends opposite. I recognise that no civilised community can allow any worthy citizen to die of starvation. I am as deeply moved as anybody with what my hon. Friend has just stated. The problem in my own constituency is very acute, but there has been such a rally on the part of
161160Mr. G. ROBERTS
166165164: This is a question of which I know something. If I were on the quarter-deck with the hon. and gallant Member, I would not dispute his knowledge. Working short time is not an innovation. It is an established common practice with trade unions. In my own trade the boot and shoe industry and in many other industries, there is an understanding by which when employers report that orders are falling off and the men are satisfied that the employers are informing them correctly they agree to a system of spreading the employment by the adoption of short time. But that is a different thing from this doctrine of spreading out employment by remaining in the factory a whole week, and giving only a half week of output. That is entirely wrong, and he is no friend of the workmen who recommends it. These are truths which have got to be told our people, and we ought not to fear unpopularity in telling them. We have lived by our foreign trade. We must have large supplies of food. An hon. Member on the other side urged that we should put more men to work on the land. I have been endeavouring to educate the Labour movement up to a recognition of the importance of agriculture, but we get very little agreement, and when the Government do propose things, I am afraid that they do not get much support, simply because we attach far too much importance to our own party points of view and give too little heed to the real urgency of a national problem. We remain and will remain dependent in very large measure on other countries overseas for food and raw material, and our ability to pay for those essentials is determined by our ability to manufacture in this country in competition with any other country in the world.166165164Mr. ROBERTS
163: The Prime Minister can answer for himself. There is no disguising the fact that this has been portrayed to the unemployed as affording a substantial solution at least of their difficulties. While in the Government it was my business as Food Controller to establish contact with certain representative Russians, and my hon and gallant Friend, I suppose, is a bit surprised to find that I preceded him in that splendid endeavour. But I was brought into contact with certain representative Russian societies. They assured me that there was a surplus of food available in Russia, and, having regard to the soaring prices here at home, I sought to discover the possibility of securing those supplies in the interests of the British working class. But the further we pursued our inquiries the more elusive the supplies became, and if there were bulging corn-bins in that country at one time, that time was followed by a period during which little food was produced, and the country had to live on its own reserves, and, even had there been a surplus remaining, transportation was impossible, and my right hon. Friend the Member for Gorbals (Mr. Barnes) was right in saying that to hold this out as a hope to the unemployed of the country is little short of a crime.163Mr. ROBERTS
: I am speaking what I know to be the truth, and it was regarded as heterodox. In fact some of them went so far as to describe you as a traitor to your class if you dared associate with any body of employers even for the purpose of preparing schemes which might be available during periods of trade depression. I am glad to observe that there is an inclination now to consider that as a desirability, and we cannot get away from the fact that at some periods we are bound to have recourse to a scheme of insurance, and therefore I think the Government are rightly motived in their proposal to extend the present Unemployment Insurance Act. I make that admission because of the absence of any other scheme that is at all likely to prove as valuable as this. Coming now to the larger considerations. I have been subject to a great deal of criticism in the country, and I often lay myself open to it, and I expect intentionally so; nevertheless I have resented the unemployed being deluded into the belief that an immediate solution of the unemployed problem or a substantial contribution to its solution is likely to result from a resumption of trade with Russia. My hon. and gallant Friend (Lieut.-Commander Kenworthy) I know has taken a very keen interest, in this.Mr. ROBERTS
: I have no recollection of having said any such thing or even of having implied it. The observation of my hon. Friend has aroused great hilarity. Certainly he should not attribute such a statement to me.Mr. G. ROBERTS
: Can my right hon. Friend give any indication as to when the Key Industries Bill will be introduced?Mr. G. TERRELL
: The inquiry is still proceeding, and the legal representatives of any person interested in this or any other inquiry is always welcomed to these courts.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, as far as I know.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The exact facts have been made known in the Press in Ireland and also in this country. All these courts are open to evidence from anyone; soldiers and all parties interested are always welcome, and it is rarely that the public Press representatives are excluded.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am not aware of that.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Any soldier who is accused is at once relieved of his duty until the hearing of the case. I have already said that no blame attached to the soldier, who fired in the execution of his duty. Every opportunity was given to the internees to give evidence at the inquest, but no one responded.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: That is so.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I cannot answer that question. I shall not pledge myself to the public issue of the Report.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have been asked to answer this question. I am not aware that the statements made by my right hon. Friend during the course of the Debate yesterday were given as sworn evidence at the military inquiry at Mallow, but I am making inquiry. I do know that at the inquest on Mrs. King, whose murder was the commencement of the Mallow question, and at the inquests on the railwaymen, no evidence was given of the shooting of railwaymen on the day following her murder, although it was open to anyone to give evidence. The usual military inquiry into all the events at Mallow is proceeding, and I am informed by the Commander-in-Chief that the normal procedure, which allows interested parties to be represented by counsel or solicitors has not been departed from. I trust that the right hon. Gentleman will use his influence to secure that all available evidence is brought before the court. With regard to the remaining part of the question, I can add nothing to the statement made by my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister yesterday.Sir H. GREENWOOD
96: With regard to the latter part of the right hon. Gentleman's supplementary question, I may say that a very considerable number were neither wounded nor shot, but were available to give evidence at the inquiry. As
96Sir H. GREENWOOD
: No. The right hon. Gentleman must not understand that.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I understand that that is not the usual practice. The only reason why the Strickland Report, which is a report by officers of the Army and the police officers, is not made public is because it is not the usual course to publish confidential reports of this kind.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I did, and I received no report up to the time the House was prorogued. I always protect myself, as every Minister does, by saying that I could not promise to publish a confidential report. Yesterday the Prime Minister gave the essentials of the Report, in order to inform the House of the worst things in the Report; but it is impossible for an isolated Minister to break this custom and tradition when it is not in the public interest.Sir H. GREENWOOD
:I am the individual who would be most happy to see that Report published, and I must take the blame for not publishing it, in accordance with custom and the public interest.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: This question was dealt with fully by the Prime Minister yesterday, and I have nothing further to add.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: There is no foundation for the statement that £3,000,000 or anything like that sum represents the amount of damage done. I have considered all these things, but I am debarred from publishing the Report only because it is against the practice of every Government to publish confidential reports.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: No.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Following the custom of the law under the Criminal Injuries Act, an inquiry will be held by the county court judge in Cork to assess the damage.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I can add nothing to what the Prime Minister said yesterday.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: There is no truth in that statement, and I have never seen that statement.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The serious allegations which have been made against certain units of the Special Constabulary in the Newry district have already been the subject for official inquiry, and as a result one platoon has been disbanded and a number of men are now awaiting trial by court-martial on charges of theft. In regard to the second part of the hon. Member's question the Military Court of Inquiry held in lieu of inquest into the deaths of the two internees at Ballykinlar found that no blame attached to the soldier who fired in the execution of his duty. No action of punitive or disciplinary character was therefore called for and none has been taken.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I must await the decision of the court-martial.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The military inquiry held in lieu of the inquest found that no blame attached to the soldier, who fired in the execution of his duty.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I must ask the hon. Member to give me notice.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Will you tell us what they are?Mr. WILSON-FOX
: At present.Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: Before the right hon. Gentleman replies, may I ask whether he will see, as was done last year, that, when private Members' time is taken away, it is restored to private Members between Easter and Whitsuntide? It is a fact that we are entitled to Wednesdays and Fridays between Easter and Whitsuntide for private Members in any event. If the Government take away Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays up to Easter, will they restore the equivalent of that time between Easter and Whitsuntide, and thereby preserve the entire time to which private Members are entitled?Mr. HOGGE
: Is not the real reason that the Government are afraid to publish the Report?Mr. HOGGE
: Why do you not resign?Mr. HOGGE
: In pursuance of the Resolution which has just been passed I have to announce that the ballot will be taken to-morrow at Twelve noon in No. 10 Committee-room.Mr. SPEAKER
: Do I clearly understand that the same representation that is allowed by the law of the land can be obtained in Ireland, and if at this inquiry, in addition to the men's union representatives, the union's legal representative was refused permission to be present, will he then hold a fresh inquiry?Mr. THOMAS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say definitely whether, if he is satisfied that the representatives of the men were refused permission to represent the men, a fresh inquiry will be held, and permission given? Further, is he aware that when this inquiry took place, nearly the whole of the people who could give evidence were in various hospitals, and that one of them has since died, whose evidence I quoted? How could people who were themselves wounded, and some of whom were dying, be called to give evidence?Mr. THOMAS
: In view of the effect that reports of this kind are likely to cause abroad, in the interests of the nation itself, will not the Government see the advisability of issuing the report?Mr. THOMAS
95by Private Notice (95by Private NoticeMr. J. H. THOMAS
: Is it not a fact that the relatives of the two men who were murdered were not informed of the murders until three days after they had taken place?Mr. MacVEAGH
: That is not so.Mr. MacVEAGH
: Is not the reason for that because no one had the slightest confidence in the impartiality of the tribunal? Is it not a fact that this inquiry was conducted by the officers of the man who committed the two murders?Mr. MacVEAGH
: Does the Chief Secretary mean to convey to the House that legal representatives of people killed have always been admitted to these inquiries?Mr. MacVEAGH
: It is not so.Mr. MacVEAGH
: This House does not matter!Mr. MacVEAGH
: Was the soldier who shot these two men put on trial? Was he court-martialled?Mr. MacVEAGH
: Is it not a fact that Colonel Little, the commanding officer, agreed that these prisoners should be allowed to converse with the prisoners in another camp provided that they did not approach the wire entanglements; and that these two men were shot dead by the soldier, without any order from the officer, whilst they were 40 feet away from the wire entanglements?Mr. MacVEAGH
: Has any action been taken in the case of the soldier who shot dead two interned prisoners in the Ballykinlar camp?Mr. MacVEAGH
: Seeing that the right hon. Gentleman has now put some of these special constables on trial on a charge of theft and looting, does he propose to conpensate the people who have been robbed on the occasion of the visits of those special constables?Mr. MacVEAGH
: I have seen it.Mr. MacVEAGH
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. MacVEAGH
: Is there any truth in the statement that the right hon. Gentleman invited an Irish Judge to hold an inquiry into General Strickland's Report?Mr. MacVEAGH
: Is the House to understand that the right hon. Gentleman, for technical reasons and reasons of custom, is unable to publish this Report; and if that be so, can he not now agree to a public inquiry into the circumstances?Mr. CLYNES
: Ought not the House to have had the opportunity of discussing this matter before a decision was reached by the Cabinet?Mr. CLYNES
117: Surely the hon. and gallant Gentleman cannot be so lacking in Parliamentary experience as to require to put that question. I am addressing myself to a Government in power which claimed that, given a mandate it would govern. We want to know what are the Government's proposals to deal with the position. They are responsible for the position; if not for causing it, certainly they are responsible for making no effective attempt to cure it. I am glad that some hon. Gentlemen are beginning to interest themselves in this problem, and I hope that during the course of the two days' Debate the proposals which have been so frequently put forward by the Labour party will receive attention
117Mr. CLYNES
110Laughter.109"Before the War, poverty, unemployment, inadequate housing, and many remediable ills existed in our land, and these ills were aggravated by disunion. We must stop at no sacrifice of interest or prejudice to stamp out unmerited poverty, or to diminish unemployment and mitigate its suffering."108"but regret that, in view of the serious distress consequent upon unemployment and the lack of preparedness on the part of the Government to deal with the situation, there is no mention of legislation recognising the right of the genuine unemployed to work or adequate maintenance.": I beg to move, at the end of the Question, to add the words
110Laughter.109"Before the War, poverty, unemployment, inadequate housing, and many remediable ills existed in our land, and these ills were aggravated by disunion. We must stop at no sacrifice of interest or prejudice to stamp out unmerited poverty, or to diminish unemployment and mitigate its suffering."108"but regret that, in view of the serious distress consequent upon unemployment and the lack of preparedness on the part of the Government to deal with the situation, there is no mention of legislation recognising the right of the genuine unemployed to work or adequate maintenance."Mr. CLYNES
: I ask that something should be said in the course of this Debate as to how soon we are to expect effective steps to be taken, I do not say by legislation so much as by administration and Cabinet action, to establish that condition of international trade which we know well is to be the permanent instrument for settling this difficulty. If the Government can do nothing to restore trade relations with Russia and other countries, it might tell us how far it has tried. Much has been said in certain sections of the Press during the past few months about the Russian negotiations. We ought not to be dependent upon the stories of rival newspapers as to what has or what has not been attempted. We may say what we like about existing conditions in Russia, but the one thing I have not yet heard as a criticism against the existing Government in Russia is that they have an unemployment problem there as bad as our own. I have not heard that.Mr. CLYNES
118: That doctrine of universal work does not appear to receive universal approval. I wish it were adopted in every country. I want to know what right, either by inheritance or by the moral law, either by the law of the land or any other law, any man has to live without working. If it be true—I am not sure of it—that work be the foundation and claim of citizenship in Russia, it is a condition which might well be imitated in every other country. I am in no sense justifying, defending or excusing what I understand to be the method—I will not call it the system—the method of government in Russia. It is asserted to be a class dictatorship. I believe thorp can be no dictatorship unless
118Mr. CLYNES
116115"The Board of Trade figures for January show a return of half-a-million women workers either totally unemployed or on systematic half-time, and these numbers, unfortunately, are increasing week by week. Large numbers of these unemployed women have already exhausted, or are about to exhaust, their eight weeks' benefit, and in their effort to live upon 12s. a week it will be easily understood that they have drawn fully on any available resources, even to the extent of pawning their personal possessions."114"The task of restoring credit and industry in the countries where economic life has been destroyed by five years of war is one of the first conditions of a return to a settled peace."113112111: I am glad to hear it. The more wrong I am the better pleased I shall be. I am certain that the figure cannot be enormously increased; at any rate, it cannot be increased so appreciably as to materially affect the sum of suffering expressed in the maximum figure representing the unemployed workers of the country. I have not seen evidence of any considerable number of willing workers who have been put on any branch—and of course there are very many and varied branches—of services relating to road construction and repair. The House remains in ignorance, so far as any comprehensive statement has been given to them, of any
116115"The Board of Trade figures for January show a return of half-a-million women workers either totally unemployed or on systematic half-time, and these numbers, unfortunately, are increasing week by week. Large numbers of these unemployed women have already exhausted, or are about to exhaust, their eight weeks' benefit, and in their effort to live upon 12s. a week it will be easily understood that they have drawn fully on any available resources, even to the extent of pawning their personal possessions."114"The task of restoring credit and industry in the countries where economic life has been destroyed by five years of war is one of the first conditions of a return to a settled peace."113112111Mr. CLYNES
: May I point out that I merely mentioned it incidentally as being part of the general world or international problem in demand for information as to what the Government have done to establish trading relations with these countries. Representatives from Russia have been here several times and met the Prime Minister and the heads of the Government. Surely if Russian trade is nothing at all to us as a contribution to solve the question of unemployment these meetings would not have been held!Mr. CLYNES
: That is a fine phrase.Mr. CLYNES
: Before the right hon Gentleman proceeds further will he permit me to say that that is exactly what the moulders asked for. They asked the employers in this country for an inquiry, and it was refused to them. The strike took place as a consequence.(Smethwick)Mr. DAVISON (Smethwick)
: You could go on with the moulders so long as you state the facts accurately.Mr. DAVISON
: I cannot allow that to pass, because it is not correct. The moulders first of all gave notice to the Employers' Federation—three weeks' notice—to withdraw from the agreement that they had made, and it was accepted by the Employers' Federation. There was, therefore, no agreement standing in the way.Mr. DAVISON
135134133132"I am instructed by the Minister this morning to inform you that the question of rates of wages is being considered by His Majesty's Government, and until a definite decision is arrived at the Minister will be unable to offer any assistance to the deputation. In view of this, however, if the Members still wish to interview the Ministries mentioned, this can be arranged on Monday next at 3 p.m. at Queen Anne's Chambers, Westminster, S.W., and I am requested to advise the Ministry early on Monday morning if the interview is still desired. Will you be good enough to let me know at the earliest possible moment?"131: I desire to bring to the attention of the House the statement made by the Ministry of Labour to the effect that the Government have been prepared, and that they made every preparation to meet the abnormal cases that have occurred. I want to deal with the specific case that has been brought to my notice by the Unemployment Committee in the Division I represent. During the closing days of the last Session, when it was first suggested the Government workshops should be put upon short time, I myself put a question to the Government as to how far that equality of sacrifice would operate. The answer I received was that it was under consideration. From that day until now the proposals that have gone forward for the relief of unemployment in the Dartford Division, which can be parallelled in every other Division, reveal an interference and holding up by officials in some quarter or other of proposals that would at least ameliorate the
135134133132"I am instructed by the Minister this morning to inform you that the question of rates of wages is being considered by His Majesty's Government, and until a definite decision is arrived at the Minister will be unable to offer any assistance to the deputation. In view of this, however, if the Members still wish to interview the Ministries mentioned, this can be arranged on Monday next at 3 p.m. at Queen Anne's Chambers, Westminster, S.W., and I am requested to advise the Ministry early on Monday morning if the interview is still desired. Will you be good enough to let me know at the earliest possible moment?"131Mr. MILLS
: It is a question of machinery.Mr. MILLS
: But may I ask the right hon. Gentleman as a Member of the League of Nations whether he admits that the paralysis of the means of transport in Russia was a pre-revolutionary state of affairs?Mr. MILLS
: Give us an instance.Mr. MILLS
183182181180: I think this Debate has shown that every section in the House is deeply sensible of the great crisis through which the country is passing, and I think it may be said that the Government in the past have paid far too little attention to the business men of this country when deciding grave and important problems. There has been far too much talk in the days which have passed since the War about the wickedness of making profits, and now we are faced, we business men, almost in every sphere of life, with the fact that businesses are making very serious loss, and are confronted with most serious difficulties. They are being faced with the instability of their customers. They are obliged to put men out of employment, and on short time. They see distress amongst those to whom they ought to give employment, and they find serious danger of bankruptcy all round them. The right hon. Gentleman who moved this Amendment stated that, perhaps, some of us on these Benches were
183182181180Mr. REMER
: Can the right hon. Gentleman see his way to give facilities for a discussion on an Amendment to the Address standing in my name on the subject?Mr. REMER
234233: My hon. and gallant Friend has always shown a vigilance with regard to matters which concern his own constituency, which is not only praiseworthy but proverbial in this House. On this occasion I can assure him that his intervention is really unnecessary. While I was in Edinburgh about ten days ago I had the honour of receiving from Leith a very influential deputation, representative not only of the Leith Education Authority, but also of the Leith Branch of the Scottish Educational Institute. I had put before me, with great detail and much force, all the considerations which my hon. and gallant Friend has urged upon me to-night. These considerations, of course, it will be my duty to bear in mind before making the proposed Order a final Order. I may assure the hon. and gallant Member that the terms of the Section to which he has referred, which directs me to bear in mind certain relevant facts, were fully borne in mind before the proposed Order was issued. The two points made by that deputation were, first of all, that the representation of Leith should be more numerous than it is under the proposed Order, and, secondly, that Leith should be divided into two districts instead of one. Those two points were argued with great force. As to the view that there should be two districts, there is a difficulty In Edinburgh, since the Education Act-became law the Parliamentary division has been the division for educational purposes. That arrangement has operated without any inconvenience. In Glasgow not only has one Parliamentary division been selected for educational purposes,
234233The SECRETARY for SCOTLAND (Mr. Munro)
: Is it not a fact that during the concluding days of last Session the right hon. Gentleman expressed a strong hope that he would be able to tell the House of Commons before the Prorogation the result of the inquiry?Mr. O'CONNOR
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. T. P. O'CONNOR
"I think so; that is the usual course.": May I quote from the words of the Attorney-General on the 14th of December, when he stated that both the evidence of the police and the auxiliaries will be taken before the court of inquiry, and when he was asked if the Report would be published he replied:
"I think so; that is the usual course."Mr. O'CONNOR
: Will the right hon. Gentleman take an opportunity of publicly withdrawing the statement which he made during the closing days of last Session, to the effect that there was no evidence that the forces of the Crown had anything to do with the burnings in Cork, or does he still adhere to that statement?Mr. O'CONNOR
208207: I have listened carefully to the Debate all the afternoon. The Minister of Labour was very sympathetic with the distress which prevails to-day, but that does not fill the cupboards of the starving unemployed. He pointed out that we have something like 1,039,000 unemployed men and women who were registering in the Labour Exchanges to-day. In our Amendment we point out the lack of preparedness on the part of the Government to deal with this situation. The Minister tried to justify the Government by saying that they had been making preparations, that they had found employment for 70,000 and that if the building trades had only accepted the proposals of the Government another 50,000 of the ex-service men would have been absorbed. There you have a figure of 120,000 which is simply touching the fringe of the subject, according to the figures given by the Minister of Labour himself. We have put forward certain suggestions to the Government, not today and not a month ago, but 12 months ago and 18 months ago, to open up trade in Russia. The Member for Norwich (Mr. G. Roberts) dealt with this question as if it were only to-day or last week we approached the Government and suggested that opening up trade with Russia would create a volume of employment for the unemployed in this country.208207Mr. T. GRIFFITHS
130: There is no reason why my hon. Friend should not have a special scheme. Perhaps I can assist him in his excellent desire to give more than this provides. The benefit will be payable for 26 weeks in each insurance year, as against 15, as at present, and there will be two special periods up to June, 1922, for payment of benefit, if required, of 16 weeks in the period from the passing of the Bill to the end of October, 1921, and a further period of 16 weeks in the period from the end of October, 1921, to the end of June, 1922. The qualification for the extra benefit, which will be provided in the period up to the end of June, 1922, will be proof of employment in not less than 20 weeks since the beginning of January, 1920. I do not think that is a very onerous qualification, remembering that employment was good clown to, we will say, the end of August.130Dr. MACNAMARA
: For women the rate will be raised to 15s., and for boys and girls, half those amounts respectively, namely, boys 9s. and girls 7s. 6d. The increased benefits will be payable from the passing of the proposed Bill, but the contributions will not be increased until after 3rd July next, the beginning of a new insurance year, when we shall require to raise them from 4d. from the employer, 4d. the employed person and 2d. the State, to 11d. from employers and employed together, which will carry a grant of 2¾d. instead of 2d. from the Exchequer, making the total 1s. 1½d. as against 10d. at the present time.Dr. MACNAMARA
: It would probably mean that, but we have not precisely worked it out.Dr. MACNAMARA
: These surpluses, together with the contributions at the present rates, would not be sufficient to see us through the emergency period, should the rate of unemployment throughout the period continue abnormal. It will, therefore, be necessary to make some increase in the weekly contributions from employers, employed, and the State, partly in order to meet the increased rates of benefit, and partly to cover the possibility of abnormal unemployment. I therefore propose to introduce a Bill to secure generally these ends: As from the passing of the Amending Bill, the rates of benefit payable out of the Unemployment Insurance Fund will be raised to men, 18s., as against 15s.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I cannot answer that question; but perhaps I may be allowed to make a comment or two upon the situation in the Debate on unemployment.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Ah, yes! But half are labourers, and a great many more are trades which could be employed at the end of the constructional work of housing, if there were more men at the actual building.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Certainly I have taken up the question with the building trade authorities.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Unemployed ex-service men receive generally, £1 per week in out-of-work donation. The absorption of 50,000 in the skilled building trades would, therefore, mean a saving of £50,000 a week in out-of-work donation, and, in addition, there would, I imagine, be a large saving of donation and benefit in respect of other unemployed ex-service men and others who could find employment if more skilled men were available.The MINISTER OF LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
121120119: I welcome at the very outset of this Session this further opportunity of taking counsel together upon the affliction of unemployment which has cast its dark shadow across the fortunes of our country. The Amendment speaks of the lack of preparedness on the part of the Government to deal with the situation, and the Mover of the Amendment laid great stress upon it, with the support of his colleagues. I challenge that statement at once. It is not a fair charge; it is not a charge in accordance with the facts. We have not drifted along indifferently and carelessly. Quite otherwise. Let me say with great respect that when my right hon. Friend was speaking I could not help thinking that after all it is one thing to announce and declare a party manifesto and it is another thing to work out day by day a practical policy. My right hon. Friend may some day discover that fact. As the House knows, trade depression began to declare itself as far back as the end of August last. Its development down to the middle of December was steady and serious, and from that time onward its volume has grown with rapidly increasing momentum. That is apparent from the figures. I will give the statistics of men and women registered
121120119Dr. MACNAMARA
: If my hon. Friend will put a question down I will answer that. That Committee has made grants-in-aid of gas and water, sewers and sewage disposal work, of cemeteries, parks, and recreation grounds, of roads, electricity, painting, tramways, and land reclamation—those are the categories under which grants are made—and various other miscellaneous operations. In the next place, we have done what we could to find alternative work, now that there is no longer output of munitions of war, for Government establishments and factories, and we have done that successfully, as I will in a moment show. Further, we have instituted a system of short time in Government factories and establishments.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Let me take that short time question. Here is a man, we will say, who is working for 47 hours a week, and we suggest to him, by way of rendering assistance to his fellows, that if he comes down to 40 hours, instead of receiving 75s. a week he will be receiving 60s. No one wishes that if it can be avoided, but what is the consequence? Four men doing that, losing 15s. a week, can find a job for a man who is to-day outside at nothing or at 15s. or 20s. a week, and I am glad to say they have done it. I regret my hon. Friend resents a system which is manifestly designed for the purpose of preventing further discharges and which enables us to bring back men now standing hopelessly waiting outside the employment exchanges, each of which has a handful of vacancies and a battalion of applicants.Dr. MACNAMARA
123: I cannot answer that question. If my hon. Friend will put questions to the Departments concerned they will tell him precisely what they have done. The Office of Works, with Treasury approval, has put in hand a certain amount of decorating and repair work in Government Departments with a view to absorbing painters and similar workpeople unemployed. I think it is due to the House, and particularly after the question of my right hon. Friend the Member for Miles Platting, to state what it all comes to. It is more than he thinks from what he said in moving the Amend-
123Dr. MACNAMARA
124: We have taken on much more than 600. At any rate, here are 6,000 men who would otherwise be now unemployed who are now getting partial work. The Office of Works Emergency work to which I have referred is finding work at this moment for 2,600, and the local authorities themselves have put in hand work beyond that in which we co-operate with them, and that is employing, as far as I can ascertain, 9,696 men. In all, therefore—do not let me put it too high—here is work, not for the 20,000 of my right hon. Friend opposite, or the possible 30,000, but for 70,000, and I am sure he will be glad to have the facts stated correctly. So much for the endeavour to find work, work of a useful and productive character, but in addition to that, and still in the direction of endeavouring to mitigate hardship, the House will remember that we amended the Unemployment Insurance Act last December in such a way as to make it more easily possible for very many of the people who came into insurance for the first time—the 8,000,000 who were added to the 4,000,000 already in insurance—to make it more easily possible for them if unemployed to receive the benefits of the Act. We substituted for the four weeks' qualifying period a much less onerous qualification, with the result that between the close of the year and the 31st
124Dr. MACNAMARA
"Reliable and trustworthy evidence has been obtained by various sections of the industry that labour in all its branches is capable of meeting the demands of the market at the present time; in fact, at the present time there are, in round figures, 50,000 buliding trades operatives unemployed."125: During the War, as the House knows, building operations were necessarily at a standstill. We are in consequence confronted with a grave shortage of housing accommodation, a shortage inflicting acute hardships upon the working classes themselves, and the position is accentuated by this fact, that there are far less men in the skilled crafts of the building operations to-day than there were pre-War. That again is quite understandable. There was nothing doing for over four years. Many of the younger men went off to join the Colours, and all honour to them, and the older men went off to other occupations, and a great many have not come back. Discussions and negotiations have been going on with the representatives of the builders' operatives since June, 1919, with the hope of finding a way that would commend itself to the building trade operatives. Our final proposals were made, as the House will remember, on the 18th December. Shortly put, we stated that the Government were prepared, in return for the admission and training of 50,000 ex-
"Reliable and trustworthy evidence has been obtained by various sections of the industry that labour in all its branches is capable of meeting the demands of the market at the present time; in fact, at the present time there are, in round figures, 50,000 buliding trades operatives unemployed."125Dr. MACNAMARA
indicated dissent. indicated dissent.The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
128: In the Gracious Speech from the Throne a Bill is promised extending the provision which is
128Dr. MACNAMARA
"We hope that the Government will push forward and fulfil its promised housing programme, not only to absorb the unemployed there will be, but in the interest of the nation's health."127: Yes. Here is a very much more remarkable fact. Everybody knows how grave unemployment is to-day—my right hon. Friend opposite was rightly eloquent about it—throughout the whole field of industrialism. There are, however, two trades and two trades only where, on 3rd February, the number of men registered as unemployed was nothing like as much as the number of vacancies. Consider the state of unemployment. Consider trade by trade, and the handful of vacancies offered to the applicants, and remember that, throughout the whole field, there are but two classes where there are more vacancies advertised with us than there are men registered with us as unemployed. Those two are bricklayers and plasterers. That fact speaks for itself. On 3rd February our registers showed 466 bricklayers and plasterers registered as unemployed. Our registers showed 6,350 vacancies for bricklayers and plasterers. I should like to know whether there is any other craft represented by my hon. Friends opposite which would not wish to be in that happy position. Of the several hundred there is no craft in that position. I contend that the key to the situation here is the extension of building operations—bricklaying, plastering and tiling. Given that, and then your labourers—half of your 64,000—your plumbers, carpenters, painters, glaziers, to say nothing of the furnishing trades, would have a substantially enhanced opportunity of employment. I have ventured to make this comment on the phrase contained in the letter of the bricklaying operatives to u"We hope that the Government will push forward and fulfil its promised housing programme, not only to absorb the unemployed there will be, but in the interest of the nation's health."127Dr. MACNAMARA
: We are now in consultation, and have been on several occasions last week, and I trust shall continue them in the endeavour to meet this undertaking. But I confess I cannot go beyond that at this moment. I say again, here are the men, to whom we are under a most profound obligation, and it is our duty to do everything in our power, with co-operation, if we can get it, of course, to carry out this undertaking. [HON. MEMBERS: "When?"]Dr. MACNAMARA
195"It is My hope that the negotiations for a trade agreement with Russia will also be brought to a successful conclusion."194193192191"The power of our bankers is even greater that that of Ministers, and increases year by year for the reason that our industries and commerce are built upon bank credit. With the continual amalgamation of our banks it is no exaggeration to say that the whole of our industrial and commercial life is under the control and at the mercy of probably less than 50 men."190189188187"The cotton trade of Lancashire had inflated its capital since pre-War days from three to seven times the pre-War figure."186185184: I desire to preface the observations I have to make with one or two references to the speeches already made. My first reference will be to the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Labour in respect of what I believe and fear is his general attitude towards this question. I think the tenor of his observations in replying to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Miles Platting was that unemployment is a sort of temporary occurrence that can be met by ex-
195"It is My hope that the negotiations for a trade agreement with Russia will also be brought to a successful conclusion."194193192191"The power of our bankers is even greater that that of Ministers, and increases year by year for the reason that our industries and commerce are built upon bank credit. With the continual amalgamation of our banks it is no exaggeration to say that the whole of our industrial and commercial life is under the control and at the mercy of probably less than 50 men."190189188187"The cotton trade of Lancashire had inflated its capital since pre-War days from three to seven times the pre-War figure."186185184Mr. MYERS
173Interruption.172"complete restoration of the industry to its normal condition of freedom."171: At any rate, it means the tendering of notices just the same as if we gave notice to shut down the collieries and bring all our men out on strike. They are going to keep some men on. Whether they mean to keep them on pumping water is another thing. In August of last year another Act was passed known as the Mining Industries Act. Under the provisions of that Act provision is made for the issuing of certain orders by the Board of Trade or the Ministry of Mines, and unless such orders have been issued entitling the employers to tender notices, the provisions I have read out must apply to the mining industry. You cannot have the coal owners of this country tendering these notices without the definite sanction and authorisation of the Board of Trade or the Ministry of Mines. As a matter of fact, I have in my hand a document issued from the Ministry of Mines, dated 1st February. It undoubtedly is the explanation of all the notices which have been tendered within recent weeks. The document calls the attention of the employers to the fact that the closing of mines comes under two categories. It says that the complete stoppage of pits may fall into two categories: (A) the stoppage of one or more pits in an undertaking in order to concentrate on the remainder of the pits in a colliery undertaking; and (B) the stoppage of single pits mot part of a large undertaking or the stoppage of all pits comprised in a colliery undertaking.173Interruption.172"complete restoration of the industry to its normal condition of freedom."171Mr. HARTSHORN
170: Certainly; these notices are given for the purpose of closing the mines. It is not merely a reduction of labour. I am talking about collieries that are to be closed. In the cases
170Mr. HARTSHORN
"Subject to the provisions of Part 1 of the Second Schedule to this Act, the agreement confirmed by the Coal Mines Control Agreement (Confirmation) Act of 1918 shall cease to have effect … provided that the provisions of the said agreement relating to the closing of mines … as set out and modified in Part 2 of the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect as if enacted in this Act.""If the owner of a mine intends to close or abandon a mine, or any part thereof, he shall give to the Controller not less than 60 days' notice of his intention."169168167: I propose to confine my remarks to the manner in which this problem relates to the mining Indus-
"Subject to the provisions of Part 1 of the Second Schedule to this Act, the agreement confirmed by the Coal Mines Control Agreement (Confirmation) Act of 1918 shall cease to have effect … provided that the provisions of the said agreement relating to the closing of mines … as set out and modified in Part 2 of the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect as if enacted in this Act.""If the owner of a mine intends to close or abandon a mine, or any part thereof, he shall give to the Controller not less than 60 days' notice of his intention."169168167Mr. HARTSHORN
: From 1917 till now no question has arisen as to the right of any colliery owner to tender notices to anyone employed at the mines until he has given 60 days' notice.Mr. HARTSHORN
154153152151150149148: I rise to offer a few observations in support of the Amendment moved by the right hon. Member for Miles Platting (Mr. Clynes). It seems to me that the reply of the Minister contained much more in the way of emphasis than in the way of information. I notice that he did not repeat the challenge which has come from various quarters of the House as to what our proposals are in regard to matters of this description. Notwithstanding all the criticisms that have been submitted by the last speaker, I venture to say that Labour has a position in this matter which will stand the test of that criticism or any other. The right hon. Gentleman stated that there was some difference between the issuing of a pamphlet and the carrying out of proposals in a practical form. I think he will be prepared to admit that at the moment most of the opportunity that comes to us is in the direction of issuing pamphlets and putting forward sets of proposals, and that we have had no such chance of applying
154153152151150149148Mr. W. R. SMITH
: How much is spent?Mr. W. R. SMITH
: May I put this question again to-morrow? The Mandate comes before the League of Nations on the 21st, and I hope the right hon. Gentleman will be able to give me an answer to-morrow.Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
Private Notice (Private NoticeSir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: May I ask my right hon. Friend whether the terms of the Mandate may not make the whole difference between an expenditure of £5,000,000 and a much larger sum, and whether we may not at all events have a copy of the Mandate placed on the Table of the House, as it has not yet been officially published in this country?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Does the right hon. Gentleman really mean that the Government is possibly going to commit this House and the country to the vast expenditure occasioned by the Mandate without any authority from this House to do so?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Assuming that the Mandate is submitted to the League of Nations, and they approve of it in all its details, will this House then have the same financial responsibility, with power to revoke any portion of it that they may desire to revoke?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Can the right hon. Gentleman give the House any idea when he will be able to let his proposals be known?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman also take into consideration the fact that the Assembly of the League asked for publication of this document, and that it was only owing to the initiative of the British delegates that publication was refused; is he aware that this Mesopotamia Mandate was given by the American Government to the "Philadelphia Ledger"? It has now been published, and why should not this House, the sovereign body, have some say in the expenditure? Further, is it not the fact that no consultation took place with regard to that draft with Prince Feisal before it was submitted to the Council?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman bear in mind the fact that Whitsuntide this year is particularly early, and that, if private Members' time is taken up to the 31st March, the interval between the 31st March and Whitsuntide will be so short that private Members will be shut out of Motions and Bills to an inordinate degree? In view of the fact that the King's Speech contains so little promise of Government legislation, will the right hon. Gentleman give a chance to private Members?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Starving everybody.Mr. W. THORNE
: They make everybody work there.Mr. W. THORNE
: You can get them for a shilling.Mr. W. THORNE
:All over the country?Mr. W. THORNE
: I have give-n you many pegs to hang your hat on.Mr. W. THORNE
: You have taken only 600 a week at Woolwich.Mr. W. THORNE
: You have not put your staffs on short time.Mr. W. THORNE
: Is it not a fact that there are something like 50,000 men out of employment in the building trade?Mr. W. THORNE
: Why do you not start to build houses and teach the men to lay bricks?Mr. W. THORNE
: You are going to feed the goat with its own milk.Mr. W. THORNE
: We can do better than that ourselves.Mr. W. THORNE
: Does that mean a penny every week additional from the men and the employers?Mr. W. THORNE
: Will the increased charges to subscribers be suspended pending the discussion in the House?Mr. HIGHAM
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. HIGHAM
210"With words we govern men."209: I hope it will not be thought presumptuous for a mere Chancery barrister to talk on a question which is primarily a matter of trade and
210"With words we govern men."209Lieut.-Colonel HURST
"I am a trade unionist myself, and I should like to see the Government defy the trade unions more than is the case. In regard to the builders, I should fancy if the Government did defy the unions they would have the majority of people in support, and the builders would have to climb down or go under. Personally, I should like to see them smashed out, for when one thinks of the unemployed of today, and years of work ahead for the building trades, well, if the builders' unions have no respect for 'services rendered,' then the Government should step in and have no regard for them. There are thousands of men walking the streets to-day who would be only too glad of any job, but 'Free' England's trade unions will not allow them to wander from the path they set out to walk. Therefore, I say, smash the unions."213212: Of course, I withdraw the statement. I must have misunderstood the observation made by my right hon. Friend in his speech. The suggestion has been made regarding a high tariff wall around England. If we did shut out foreign goods we would simply have to meet them in neutral markets instead. The cure for our troubles undoubtedly is in establishing some system by which the goods made on the Continent can be bartered for goods made in England through some international clearing-house. I understand that very good results have been accomplished already by a British bank operating in Warsaw in exchanging sugar and other raw materials for manufactured goods from England. That is an idea which might be developed in other countries. So far as the Eastern markets are concerned, where undoubtedly there is a boundless potential market, the cure is the stabilisation of silver so that we can have a fixed medium of exchange between England and India and the East generally. There is the further point that raw materials have not increased in value anything like proportionately to textiles. Every body knows that goods are paid for by goods. A very large amount of British goods go to Africa, and are paid for indirectly by raw materials shipped from Africa. In 1914 palm kernels were worth 15 guineas per ton; they are now only worth £12 per ton, including tax, so they have actually gone down in value, while cocoa has increased in value from £36 per ton in 1914 to £37 3s. 4d. per ton now. In other words, the value of these raw materials which are used in exchange for our textiles has remained constant since 1914, whereas the value of our goods has gone up something like two, three or four times during that period."I am a trade unionist myself, and I should like to see the Government defy the trade unions more than is the case. In regard to the builders, I should fancy if the Government did defy the unions they would have the majority of people in support, and the builders would have to climb down or go under. Personally, I should like to see them smashed out, for when one thinks of the unemployed of today, and years of work ahead for the building trades, well, if the builders' unions have no respect for 'services rendered,' then the Government should step in and have no regard for them. There are thousands of men walking the streets to-day who would be only too glad of any job, but 'Free' England's trade unions will not allow them to wander from the path they set out to walk. Therefore, I say, smash the unions."213212Lieut.-Colonel HURST
214: The hon. Member has been able to surmount the difficulties of that Act by ignoring them, and his own success at Mossley is an example which other employers of labour would do well to follow. So far as the Government are concerned, and this is. I think, the main appeal which ought to be made to the Ministry to-day on this building trade question, they know as well as any of us the immense need there is for houses. They know also the enormous number of men who could find employment in that trade, and we have heard the usual brave words from my right hon. Friend here this evening, in which he says how scandalous this treatment of the ex-service men has been, and how thoroughly the Government have it at heart, how long they have been negotiating about it, and how the question is receiving more and more day by day their very serious consideration. I wish he would follow the advice humbly offered by the trade unionist working man whose letter I have read to the House. My right hon. Friend might say it is a great risk, and that a man must be mad if in these days he takes his courage in both hands and fights the builders operatives' union. I may recall to the House the memory of that great
214Lieut.-Colonel HURST
: Can the Minister of Labour state whether it is a fact, as stated in the Press last night, that operations at Dagenham, Ilford, have been brought to a standstill by recent action of the unions, who have declined to allow concrete bricks to be laid in the buildings?Sir W. DAVISON
: Would the right hon. Gentleman consider whether this deficit could not be met by running the telephones on business lines instead of increasing the charges?Sir W. DAVISON
: Is it not a fact that the soldier fired only after repeated warnings to these two men?Commander Viscount CURZON
: Will not the right hon. Gentleman give way to the general feeling in all quarters of the House that there should be a discussion?Earl WINTERTON
: Does my right hon. Friend not think it would be better, and would it not save him a large number of these questions being put if he published a summary of the findings of the Courts?Captain COOTE
: Not very well.Captain COOTE
: He was appointed to his present post by a Liberal Government, which you supported.Mr. J. JONES
: Will Sinn Feiners have a similar opportunity of proving that they are insane?Mr. J. JONES
39.  asked the Prime Minister what measures the Government proposes taking to restore peace to Ireland?Mr. T. THOMSON
: Is it not a fact that this house is the private property of the Romanoff family, which they can use exactly as they please?Sir J. D. REES
19.  asked the Home Secretary if he can see his way to withdraw the draft Regulations issued under Section 3 of the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1920, which are considered unworkable in their present form by those who will have to carry them out; and will he consult the representatives of the pharmaceutical societies in the redrafting of these Regulations so that the objects of the Act may be achieved with the minimum instead of the maximum of inconvenience to the public?Mr. TREVELYAN THOMSON
20.  asked the Home Secretary whether the new Dangerous Drugs Regulations will be withdrawn and redrafted in view of the overwhelming opinion among medical practitioners that in their present form they are unnecessarily irksome, totally impracticable, and likely only to encourage the desire for dangerous drugs by notifying patients by means of a label whenever medicines contain morphine and other narcotics?Lieut. - Colonel W. GUINNESS
: Are we to understand that the Home Secretary will receive a deputation from these various societies, and discuss with them the points that have been raised?Mr. THOMSON
: Is the hon. Baronet aware that these draft regulations are viewed with consternation by the people concerned? Is it really contemplated that the few supermen of the League of Nations are to worry every under-dog about every matter like this? Will my hon. Friend represent to the Home Secretary the intense unpopularity of these regulations, which are utterly unjustifiable?Sir J. D. REES
: Will the representatives of agriculture have the fullest opportunity of putting their views before the Minister?Lieut.-Colonel A. MURRAY
: I think it will be generally agreed that there is no call for any intervention. On the whole these voluntary censors have done their work, as we think, admirably. It would require legislation, and there are many other things which are more important at present.Sir J. BAIRO
: Will all the pictures in the National Gallery be weeded out and all the nudes clothed?Sir J. D. REES
: So far as His Majesty's Government are aware, the answer is in the negative.Mr. HARMSWORTH
28.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the continuous coast erosion at Blundellsands, Lancashire, of the loss of valuable property already involved, of further threatened damage, and of the divergence of views as to the responsibility for the erosion, he will appoint a competent person to survey the coast with a view to deciding where the responsibility rests?Lieut.-Colonel BUCKLEY
30.  asked the Prime Minister what action will be taken to give effect to his promise that so long as wheat remained controlled the price of home-grown wheat harvested in 1920 would be the monthly average price of imported wheat of similar or comparable quality up to a maximum of 95s. per quarter?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Will the promises to ex-service men also be redeemed in the same way?Mr. J. JONES
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that only a very short summary of what took place yesterday was published in the Press, and will he see that a full report of the proceedings is published?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
56.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the evidence accumulating on all sides to the effect that State management is disastrous to the State, there is any prospect of reversion to private management in respect primarily of the telephone service?Sir J. D. REES
: The supple mentary protocols and agreements relating to the execution of the Treaty of Versailles, as well as the correspondence exchanged between the Supreme Council, the Conference of Ambassadors, and the German Government will be laid shortly. The first volume will cover the period January, 1920, to July, 1920.Mr. HARMSWORTH
44.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in accordance with Article 246 of Section 2 of the Treaty of Peace between the Allied and Associated Powers and Germany, Germany has yet handed over to His Britannic Majesty's Government the skull of the Sultan Mkwawa?Mr. BOTTOM LEY
268: The answer is in the negative. The Governor of the Tanganyika Territory is endeavouring
268Mr. HARMSWORTH
60.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the general dissatisfaction amongst users of telephones throughout the country at the new scale of charges and conditions imposed upon them, an inquiry will be instituted by a competent and independent tribunal into the whole administration and interior organisation of the telephone system by the Post Office; and whether in the meantime the new rates and charges will be suspended?Mr. DOYLE
: I hope the hon. Member will not jest about this matter, because it is regarded with much sentiment by some of the tribes in East Africa.Mr. HARMSWORTH
48.  asked the Prime Minister if his attention has been called to the heavy sentences which have been passed by the Supreme Court at Leipzig on obscure war culprits for comparatively innocuous offences; and if he will state what steps are being taken to secure the trial and punishment of the highly placed war criminals with whose responsibility he dealt with special emphasis in speeches he delivered in December, 1918?Lieut.-Colonel Sir F. HALL
: Did the list submitted include the name of the late Emperor?Mr. THOMAS
: I remember the Treaty, but I also remember the General Election pledges.Mr. THOMAS
: Is it not the intention of the British Government to enforce the trial of these criminals if they are not dealt with by the Leipzig Court?Colonel C. LOWTHER
: Has the attention of the right hon. Gentleman been drawn to the case of three men charged with plundering an inn in Belgium in October, 1914, who have been sentenced to five and four years' penal servitude, and two years' imprisonment? Does he recognise that these are not among the cases brought forward by the Government, and will the Government take every step possible to bring to justice these criminals against whom the Government have sent information to the German Government?Sir F. HALL
: Will those responsible for crime in Ireland be brought to justice?Mr. J. JONES
: There is no ground for that suggestion. We had better leave this matter to be dealt with as I have indicated.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Are we not to have an answer on the legal point as to whether a man is a prisoner of war when he has never fought?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: What about Ireland?Mr. J. JONES
: I am not in a position to give a legal decision.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: It is hoped that the question of the detention of Rahmi Bey may be dealt with as a part of the Turkish settlement.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Is it not a fact that neither Rahmi Bey nor the other Turkish deputies who have been arbitrarily arrested in Constantinople and are in prison, ever fought in the War, and how therefore can the hon. Gentleman justify their continued internment as prisoners of war? Is it not contrary to all traditions of British justice to keep men in prison like this for over a year without any charge?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Will the Government submit the case of Ireland to the Allies?Mr. J. JONES
: I suggest that that message be posted all over Ireland.Mr. J. JONES
: Hear, hear!HON. MEMBERS
: I meant short time, but not short commons!Mr. J. JONES
: Miners' wages in America are higher than here.Mr. TYSON WILSON
401400ad hoc399398: With the general trend of my hon. Friend's observations I am completely in agreement, but he will see that the measure of the derisive
401400ad hoc399398Captain COOTE
402: Giving a rough estimate of opinion, I would say that the just price is probably about the same as it was in 1914, and the just way is considerably, but not abnormally, higher than it was in 1914, and the just
402Captain COOTE
: That is only generalisation.Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
403: I know that it is generalisation, but we have heard generalisations from a great many hon. Members in this Debate. I will give one example to show how the State does not interfere with success to check profiteering either in wages or profits. Since the War we have had a great many instances of the State trying to control these things, but the one industry in which we have not had any attempt by the State has been the shipping industry. It is true that we had an enormous boom in prices, but then we also had a very sudden drop in freights, so we have now got more ships on the high seas than we want and we shall in the course of time adjust ourselves to normal conditions. I do think on the whole that the less State interference you have with this problem the better, and the more you can get employers and employés to realise the facts of the case the better. That is the quickest way to get back to normal conditions. I have endeavoured to lay before the House one or two considerations which have struck me in connection with this problem. There is no use in indulging in recrimination as to who is responsible for neglecting this problem in the past. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean) this afternoon accused the Government, but nearly every pre-
403Captain COOTE
: Why not wipe the National Debt out?Mr. J. JONES
: And all the others must be prepared to share their wealth.Mr. J. JONES
: And they are richer now than ever they were.Mr. JONES
: I apologise.Mr. JONES
: Black and Tans!Mr. JONES
: What about the bricklayers now?Mr. J. JONES
42.  asked the Prime Minister when an opportunity will be afforded to the House of discussing the. Milner Report?Captain W. BENN
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that the right hon. Gentleman explained to the House that it was necessary that the War Ministry and the Air Ministry should go hand in hand, and what is the reason for the Colonial Minister exercising the duties?Captain BENN
41.  asked the Prime Minister whether it is intended that the Secretary of State for the Colonies shall continue to exercise the duties of Air Minister; and who will answer for the Air Ministry in the event of the absence of the Secretary of State for any lengthy period?Captain W. BENN
: Would the right hon. Gentleman answer Question No. 13, and state how many non-combatants have been killed?Captain WEDGWOOD BENN
: Why not?Captain BENN
5.  asked the Chief Secretary how many officers and other ranks of the Army and of the Royal Irish Constabulary and Auxiliary Police Forces, separately, have been killed, and wounded whilst in the execution of their duty and when off duty during the months of December and January; whether, in cases where parties of troops or police have been attacked by armed civilians, there has been sufficient evidence obtained from prisoners captured to lead to the publication of the names of the majority of Irish civilians taking part in the attack; and whether the total number of Irish civilians killed in actual open fighting with the force's of the Crown exceeds the number found killed, giving the respective figures in both cases for the same period?Major GLYN
: Is the Chief Secretary aware that the opinion amongst the troops is that, where the evidence is known as to who are attacking in the ambushes, no harm could result by publishing the names?Major GLYN
18. 257 asked the Home Secretary whether, in view of the increase in serious crime proved against juvenile offenders, he will consider the advisability of instructing the censorship authorities charged with passing or rejecting cinema films to prohibit the exhibition in the United Kingdom of any films
257Major GLYN
: Is it not a fact that these draft regulations have been published in accordance with an Act of Parliament which has been on the Statute Book for the last twenty years—the Rules Publication Act—in order that anyone may object or comment as he thinks fit?Colonel GREIG
: Will they be published shortly?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Are the reports which appeared in the English Press correct?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the statements made by the hon. Member for East Leyton were exactly the same as those made by the Lord Privy Seal and other Members of this Government five or six years ago?Lieut-Commander KENWORTHY
: I am sorry to interrupt, but perhaps the hon. Gentleman is not aware that Earl Curzon, in another place, in the Debate on the King's Speech, said that economic reconstruction—Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Is that the view of the Government?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Has the right hon Gentleman's attention been called to No 15 of the Weekly Summary, in which is reproduced a resolution passed by the Anti-Sinn Fein Society in Cork to the effect that three other persons would be killed for every policeman murdered?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
:Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
10. 245 asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland
245Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Cannot these military officers examine more of the auxiliary cadets who have been committing these crimes? Is nothing more to be done in this matter of the 15 cadets who watched the beating of this old man of 70 for a quarter of an hour and then tried to secrete the body? If a resident magistrate had not been there, would this not have been another unknown murder?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Are we to understand that this money is to be paid, although it is proved that the Forces of the Crown destroyed the property? Are the ratepayers of the district to pay the money?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
9. 
asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether he has received a report from His Honour Judge Bodkin on the burning of property by the Crown Forces in the county of Clare; whether awards have been given in 139 cases of arson by Crown Forces, totalling over £180,000; and who is going to pay this money?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: On a point of Order. Is it in order for a Minister to criticise a learned Judge?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
7.  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether it is the Black and Tans who have been responsible for all deliberate reprisals in Ireland; whether these reprisals have constantly fallen upon innocent people and loyalists; whether people have often been protected from outrages at the hands of the Black and Tans by the troops; and whether the Black and Tans and Auxiliaries were driven out of Cork at the point of the bayonet by General Strickland's orders?Mr. AUBREY HERBERT
: If we are to punish Rahmi Bey and other men who have been good to us during the War, cannot we punish the German criminals?Mr. HERBERT
47.  asked the Prime Minister whether any other Turkish official besides Rahmi Bey has been officially thanked for kindness to British residents in Turkey during the War, and subsequently imprisoned by His Majesty's Government for two years without any charge being preferred against him?Mr. A. HERBERT
407406: I have been present throughout the Debate both yesterday and to-day. I have heard both the Government side and the Labour side, and it seems to me that each side is blaming the other. What is the fundamental cause of unemployment? It is quite obvious, after all the points which have been made by the Government in Debate, that the Bills they have introduced on this subject are merely palliatives. It is obvious that there is only
407406Mr. E. HARMSWORTH
408: The hon. Member suggests that we should wipe the ^National Debt out completely. He suggests also, no doubt, that we should wipe out capital entirely and completely. In that case labour also would be bound to be wiped out. If there were no capital, there would be no need for labour either. [HON. MEMBERS: "Sack the lot!" "Ask your uncle!"] One way of rectifying this great question of unemployment is to make the industries of this country more prosperous in the future. When the Government frame their next Budget, I hope they will re-
408Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I shall have the greatest pleasure in so doing. On many occasions I have endeavoured to do so, and I shall have the greatest pleasure in publicly or privately stating in what way I should do it.Mr. HARMSWORTH
368367366365: The Minister of Labour in his reply outlined the steps which the Government are taking to meet the existing situation. All those steps involve considerable expenditure and necessarily larger taxation, and I associate myself with the apprehensions expressed as to the taxation necessary to meet this expenditure. I also associate myself with the remarks of the hon. Member for Manchester which dealt with the impossibility of industry maintaining a scale of wages in excess of what the industry can bear and trying to maintain a standard of living in this country which is in excess of the standard of our competitors in identical industries. As the measures outlined by the Minister of Labour are all necessarily expensive, we should consider what means could be taken by the Government to stimulate employment in the way in which workmen are usually employed. What has been done at present in the way of occupying people doing work which is not relief work or is not immediately necessary or is not merely manufacturing stock which cannot be disposed of, as all this simply intensifies the financial difficulty that is our main difficulty at present and ties up funds which may be necessary for other purposes. Speaking as a banker, this is causing us at present great apprehension.368367366365Lieut.-Colonel WILLEY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that his statement yesterday that the Mesopotamia mandate had to be put before the Council of the League before it came before this House, was not correct?Lieut. Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Has it not been reported that this cadet was made insane by the massacres which had taken place a few days before in Cork?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
34.  asked the Prime Minister whether any decision has been arrived at as to the future control, of the Air Ministry; and who is at present responsible for its administration?Lieut.-Colonel BURGOYNE
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeCaptain FITZROY
: Will the right hon. Gentleman undertake, if he has any proposals to make on the question, to give the information to the House first of all?Captain FITZROY
26.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the great distress caused by the failure of Farrow's Bank; and whether it is proposed to give assistance in the more necessitous cases?Mr. RAPER
: Will the assets which exist in the shape of land and buildings be sold on the public market, and will the assets be credited with the amounts wrongly paid in taxation?Mr. RAPER
25.  asked the Prime Minister whether it is now proposed to appoint a separate Secretary of State for Air; and, if so, when such appointment will be made?Mr. RAPER
27.  asked the Prime Minister what reply has been received from the Russian Soviet Government to the proposals submitted by His Majesty's Government as a basis for an economic agreement; and what is the present position of the negotiations?Mr. RAPER
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeLord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
: May I ask the Leader of the House whether he is aware that it is understood that to-morrow is to be devoted to discussion of the telephone system, and Monday to a discussion on Ireland, and would he say whether it is true that the Government intend to move the Closure on Monday evening, and whether in that event there will be no opportunity for discussing the general principles of national expenditure and economy before the introduction of the Budget; and whether, in view of the very great interest in the country on these subjects, he will make arrangements to secure such a discussion by allowing the Debate on the Address to continue for another day?Lord R. CECIL
: It is well, Mr. Speaker, that the House should know exactly where it stands, and whether it is a fact that on the Vote of Account and the Second Reading of the Consolidated Fund Bill it will be possible to raise any question affecting the general method by which the expenditure of this country is controlled, or the general method by which economies may be secured, or whether our discussion is not confined to the actual Votes which are included in the question put from the Chair and cannot deal with the general policy of expenditure.Lord R. CECIL
: If that be so, that settles it, and we can discuss the matter. I did not want us afterwards to find ourselves in a difficulty, and I wanted to be quite sure that I had made my question plain that we could discuss, not this or that economy which might be made in a particular Vote, but the general principles on which the expenditure of the country should be controlled.Lord R. CECIL
: May I ask the right hon. Gentleman, in view of the evident and extreme doubt as to whether the subject can be discussed properly or not on the Consolidated Fund Bill, whether he will not reconsider his decision?Lord R. CECIL
: May I have an answer to my question as to whether this Resolution was reproduced in the Weekly Summary?Major M. WOOD
: Is that the view of the Government?Major M. WOOD
ex parte: Is it not the case that the Crown are represented at these inquiries? In what sense was the statement ex parteMajor M. WOOD
: Was this Resolution reproduced in the Weekly Summary, and for what reason?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
: For what reason was it printed in the Weekly Summary?Major M. WOOD
: Break down land monopoly.(Clitheroe)Mr. A. DAVIES (Clitheroe)
: Are we to assume that you are prepared to find work for us instead of giving us doles?Mr. DAVIES
: The hon. Member suggests that we should invest our money. What chance does he consider we as trade unionists should have against the British federation of Industry if it came to a question of a fight?Mr. DAVIES
: There are degrees of sympathy. Your sympathy extends to the point of 18s. per week for the purpose of meeting the requirements of men who have suffered and endured during the War. Ours extends to a minimum of 40s. a week. Are you prepared to follow us?(Clitheroe)Mr. A. DAVIES (Clitheroe)
: Is this the officer who we were told yesterday by the Prime Minister was suspended owing to the Strickland Report?Mr. NEWBOULD
: Does the right hon. Gentleman not consider it very unfair for the local ratepayers to pay the compensation due to them out of their own money in order to rebuild organisations damaged by the Armed Forces of the Crown?Mr. WATERSON
: Before the right hon. Gentleman replies to that, may I ask if he is aware that the failure definitely to guarantee the payment of compensation by ths Exchequer is causing, to some extent, unemployment in this country, because the Association of Traders feel so shaken under present conditions?Mr. WATERSON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman agree to a copy being placed in the Library for hon. Members to see for themselves?Mr. WATERSON
3. 237 asked the Minister of Pensions whether his attention has been called to the case of a disabled man,
237Sir ALFRED YEO
: Will the right hon. Gentleman undertake to bring a little more humanity into the Department in order that these cases may be dealt with more expeditiously?Sir A. YEO
340339: I should like to say a word or two about the general course of events, and they shall be brief. Various points have been raised and criticisms urged and there has been special emphasis, I think, laid on two points. First of all we—all of us—feel the most intense sympathy for those to whom unemployment brings privations and poignant misery. Of that there is no question. That is common to very Member of the House. The other feeling, which, I think, we all have, is that the problem is a very baffling one. There are some Members who propose specific remedies on specific points. There is, however, I want to say, general agree-
340339Sir M. BARLOW
345344: If he is within the ambit of this scheme, the private employer or the private exporter is already assisted. If it is a question of my right hon. Friend desiring, as I rather gather he does, that export schemes should be extended on much wider lines to assist employers in this country, whether exporters or not, then I think this matter must be raised in another shape. It involves immensely difficult questions of State credit and so on, which would require very careful consideration. Just one point, on the Insurance Act and the amending provisions. My hon. Friend the Member for Plaistow (Mr. W. Thorne), when my right hon. Friend the Minister was explaining the provisions yesterday, said that on the increased rate of payment, amounting to 1s. l¾d., he could provide 20s. benefit. When he says that I am not quite sure of two things. I am not sure whether he was referring to normal times or whether he was referring to the present condition of unemployment running up to 10 per cent., and I am also not quite sure whether he was referring to benefits merely of 15s., 18s., or 20s., or whether he had in mind the immense extension there is in the Government proposals of two periods of 16 weeks given, in fact, gratuitously under the scheme and without contribution. Both for ox-service men and for civilians, the benefits under the Government proposals are really very considerable indeed. In the case of the ex-service man he would run out of donation in the normal way at the end of March. He is not at present in the Insurance Act, but he will be brought into it. He will be entitled to the ordinary benefit of 18s., and, in addition, arrangements have been
345344Sir M. BARLOW
: We hope that trade with Russia will be opened soon, but do not let any one have the delusion that we are going to get very much result immediately therefrom.Sir M. BARLOW
338337336: I think the speech to which we have just listened falls into two parts. With the first portion, which dealt with the subject of the Amendment, I find myself, to a very large extent at any rate, in very considerable agreement. The latter portion ranged over a somewhat wide area. It covered functions relative to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Army, the Foreign Office and other Departments. I should like to say a word or two with regard to the first part of the right hon. Gentleman's speech, because, in respect of that particularly, I find myself very much in sympathy with his attitude of mind, if I may say so, and his outlook. The whole way in which this problem is being regarded, not only by this House, but also by the country, has undergone within the last few years an entire change— almost a revolution. Certainly in the spirit in which the problem is regarded, and the determination to find every possible solution for it, I agree with him, and I also agree with him that the theory of the pool of unemployment is a theory of which we must, if we can, get rid. I think everyone who has dealt practically and theoretically with the problem of unemployment, has accepted that which is involved in that rather clumsy word "decasualisation."338337336The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of LABOUR (Sir Montague Barlow)
"Organised short time is already the practice in a large number of trades to meet periods of depression. This method of avoiding displacement of labour, and the consequent risk and inconvenience to the workpeople concerned, has considerable value."341: That is another matter. [An HON. MEMBER: "Part time, you mean!"] Yes, part time, not necessarily half-time. I was using the word compendiously. I do not want to get into any public discussion on that point. Let me now refer to the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Clynes), who spoke about the joint Report of the National Industrial Conference. That is, I think, accepted by members of the Labour party."Organised short time is already the practice in a large number of trades to meet periods of depression. This method of avoiding displacement of labour, and the consequent risk and inconvenience to the workpeople concerned, has considerable value."341Sir M. BARLOW
: I do not quite know, but they offer reasons which I should have thought—Sir M. BARLOW
342: But this is part of the programme of the Labour party! The Report is signed by Mr. Arthur Henderson, as chairman of the trades union representatives. Surely it is an unreasonable thing, when an authoritative document is put forward in this way with that imprimateur, to attack the Government for applying the principle? Then there is the question of doles. I listened with very great care to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Miles Platting, when he dealt with the question of doles. What, of course, is wanted, is remunerative and productive work, but if no productive or remunerative work is forthcoming, what are you to do? The proposals of the Labour party are set out on page 20. These proposals put forward suggest maintenance, and amounts to this: the payment of 40s. for each out-of-work householder per week, and 25s. for the single man or woman. I have before asked the question, When is a dole not a dole? Apparently it is a dole, and a more or less improper thing, when it is put forward in the shape of benefit under the Insurance Act, but it is reasonable maintenance and quite a proper thing when put forward by the Labour party. I do not want to put my hon. Friends in any unreasonable dilemma, but I do in all seriousness ask that they should co-
342Sir M. BARLOW
: There have been applications made and approved up to £2,000,000 and the amount coming forward for expenditure is roughly £300,000. But I find that among the deputations I have to deal with there is increased interest in the scheme, and I still hope that when more knowledge of it exists more will be made of it. At any rate, it cannot be thrown in the teeth of the Government that reasonable provision has not been made in the matter. Just one thing before I sit down, and that is the question of the amending provisions to the Insurance Act.Sir M. BARLOW
: I am not quite certain what the right hon. Gentleman means. If he means an extension of the existing scheme (which only applies to trade with the Eastern countries), that of course is a particular development which will be matter for discussion. If he means application to private employers within the ambit of the existing scheme, it applies to private employers already.M. BARLOW
1. 236 asked the Minister of Pensions whether he has published or will publish statistics tabulating pension
236Mr. RENDALL
2.  asked the Minister of Pensions whether he is aware that the pension scale for limb injuries, which gives a stated sum as compensation for the limb lost, ignores the pensioner's general health, which may be shattered or gravely injured by the injuries that caused the loss of the limb; and what course he has taken, or proposes to take, to deal with this problem?Mr. RENDALL
sub judice.: I cannot answer the first question and I ought not to answer the second, which, in the form in which it is put, assumes the very matter which is now sub judice.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I am fully alive to the hardship which has been caused to the depositors by the failure of this bank, but I do not think that the circumstances are such as would justify the grant of relief from public funds.The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER (Mr. Chamberlain)
: That is the question I have answeredMr. CHAMBERLAIN
36.  asked the Prime Minister why the Strickland Report has not been published?Mr. KENYON
75.  asked the Homo Secretary if his attention has been called to the widespread objection to the now Regulations for the sale of dangerous drugs; and if he can make any statement?Major Sir BERTRAM FALLE
: I do not agree with my Noble Friend. There is now much less doubt than I thought there was.Mr. BONAR LAW
: It is obvious that the Council of the League of Nations, which meets only on Monday, cannot deal with this before Wednesday, and my right hon. Friend or the chief British representative will arrange, if he can—I have no doubt he can—to have the discussion postponed.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I bear in mind not only the rule but the experience of previous discussions. I have always found both on the Vote on Account and on the Consolidated Fund Bill that everything in connection with finance which interests the House has been discussed; but in addition to that I have given a promise that if the House desires it—and I hope it will—we shall give a date for a general discussion before the introduction of the Budget.Mr. BONAR LAW
275: It is the fact that the Government intend, owing to the state of public business, to bring the Debate on the Address to a close on Monday. My Noble Friend is mistaken in saying that there will be no opportunity before the Budget for the discussion he mentioned. I can assure him and the House that the Government rather like
275Mr. BONAR LAW
: Oh, no; there is no actual word one way or the other. It is a pity that I should argue this now. I can assure my hon. and gallant Friend that there are at least two sides to that question.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I cannot give that promise. I am not now going to argue the question, because I promised to consider it. I have done so with the Prime Minister, and we have come to the conclusion that although we think the answer I gave yesterday is correct, it must be borne in mind that the subject is to be discussed with representatives of the Allies who come here on Monday. I ask the House, therefore, to wait until we have had that consultation.Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
: Chesham House, which was formerly the Russian Embassy, is occupied by Monsieur Sabline, who is charged with the liquidation of matters connected with the late Russian Governments. The corner of Chesham Place is one of the ordinary fixed points where a policeman is normally and permanently stationed.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
: I think my hon. Friend is a little in error. I understand that the house is leased by the Countess Benckendorff, the wife of the former Russian Ambassador in this country.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: It was not a question of wages to which the right hon. Member for Gorbals was referring. It was the industrial disputes and unrest which he suggested were causing this work to be sent abroad.Mr. JESSON
: Is it not desirable that a time limit should be given to Germany for the trial of these persons?Mr. PERCY
: The "Bolshies" in Russia certainly, and the "Bolshies" in Britain would try to do the same.Mr. STANT0N
: You ought to be.Mr. STANTON
: It has.Mr. STANTON
: We know they are.Mr. STANTON
: I cannot add anything to the statements made by me on this subject on Tuesday.The PRIME MINISTER
: I can add nothing to the statement which I made in Debate on this subject on Tuesday last.The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
413: That does not enable you to sell cotton in China. This is a great trading community, and do not let us be borne away by any other controversy from what really matters for the moment, and that is how we are to secure the trade of the world. That will not be
413The PRIME MINISTER
: They have been sharing pretty well; there has never been so much sharing of wealth in the whole history of this country.The PRIME MINISTER
: Let me pursue the subject. I know it is one which appeals to my hon. Friends opposite. I have listened to denunciations of the Government, and denunciations of myself by name, and I have listened with great satisfaction. I ask my hon. Friends to listen to something which they will not quite like—but it will be a very useful discipline! My right hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Clynes) has got an Amendment upon which I presume we will vote in a very short while. What is his Amendment? It regrets there is no mention of legislation recognising the right of the genuine unemployed to work or to adequate maintenance. The right to work. What does it mean? Does it mean everybody's right to work, or does it mean simply the right to work if the trade unions permit? [HON. MEMBERS: "Hear, hear!"]The PRIME MINISTER
: I did not interrupt my hon. Friend last night.The PRIME MINISTER
412411410409: No doubt it will be very helpful. He will find if he pursues his investigations a little further that trade is equally bad in all other countries, and that it is not merely a national but an international stoppage. Therefore, the proposition that he will have to come to is that all Governments are equally bad and that trade will never revive until all the countries of the world are ruled by the Anti-Waste League. If I may come to the subject which we have been discussing here for the last two days, I should like to say first of all that in so far as I have listened to the Debate it has been fruitful of a very thoughtful examination of the whole situation. The criticism has been varied, and the sug-
412411410409The PRIME MINISTER
: The hon. Member who has just sat down complained that much of the unemployment was due to the taxation of the Government, but he did not explain in what respect that taxation could have been reduced without a repudiation of our liabilities for the reduction of Debt and our liabilities to ex-service men. When he has devoted two or three more years to the study of this question we shall be glad to have the fruits of his meditation.The PRIME MINISTER
417416: This is a very important part of the problem of unemployment. We listened to an able speech by the hon. Member for Bradford. There is no doubt, he declared, that it is better you should start trade again than that you should vote money for unemployment. That is very easily said. It is not very easily done. It is a portion of the problem which has engaged us as a Government, which has engaged the Allies in their conferences. We had a very important discussion on the subject in Paris about a fortnight ago. Central Europe, or rather the whole of Europe, are customers. As to Russia my views are fairly well known. I do not want to say anything more. I have been from the beginning a strong advocate of renewing trade with Russia. I have never hesitated at all. But I must say that in my opinion the arguments are by no means only upon one side. Follies unutterable have been committed on the other side. But let me say this: I was astonished to hear my right hon. Friend say that, whatever Russia has suffered from, she has not suffered from unemployment. Of all statements that is one of the most amazing. Of course she has not. If you reduce the population of a city from 2,000,000 to 600,000 there are not many people for whom to provide employment. The workman of this country, if he has followed what has happened in Russia, will have noted the difference between the workman there and himself. They are not artisans like we have in this country, who have been in these trades for generations—the miners, the textile workers; the occupation running down from father to son, and hereditary. They came to the towns in Russia and started in the industries. What has happened to them? They have flocked back to the country. There is no unemployment because there is nobody employed. They have all gone away. It is desolation,
417416The PRIME MINISTER
415: These 50,000 men have to be maintained at the present time by the State. We are paying them 20s. a week, some of them 29s., out of the taxes. Yet they are anxious to work. This does not depend upon the employers. The contracts have been let. The Government have a certain number of houses which they are building. I refer to the Government contracts for houses being built through the Office of Works. Supposing we were setting on ex-service men. It makes not the slightest difference to the builders. There is so large a demand for labour, and there is plenty of other work to perform. We are putting it to the builders—I have been engaged on the matter all the afternoon—that they should insist upon a fair proportion of the ex-service men being employed upon these building contracts. If the building trade refuses the Government will stand behind the builders in their action That is in order to carry out practically—not in the Division Lobby—but practically the Resolution which is moved by my right hon. Friend opposite. I am here as a supporter of this Amendment. [An HON. MEMBER: "What about the million unemployed?"] Well that million will be lessened by 50,000, and the trouble is very largely in respect to unskilled men. These
415The PRIME MINISTER
: My right hon. Friend wants legislation recognising the right to work. Are the trade unions to have the right to veto that legislation once it is passed?The PRIME MINISTER
414: Take what is happening in the building trade at the present moment. [HON. MEMBERS: "Hear, hear!"] The subject, I know, is disagreeable to some hon. Members opposite, but I ask them to take note of what is happening in the building trade. The building trade is the one trade of which I know where there is more work than
414The PRIME MINISTER
420419418: I do not think it is fair, when you are considering a problem which is of common interest to us, to introduce two polemical considerations. I am trying to deal with this matter from the point of view of every section and class of the community. I earnestly appeal to the banks to take their fair share of the risks of credit in this respect. It is in the interest of the trade of the country, which is their interest just as much as anybody else's. They are the only people who can really help, and if they do so, I believe it will be possible to get a start. You must enable these people to go on for, at any rate, 12 months. The fact that they are not taking goods now is in itself to a certain extent creditable. They have been good customers, they have been
420419418The PRIME MINISTER
: Let them tax themselves, then.The PRIME MINISTER
: I never said so.The PRIME MINISTER
: It was one particular union that had refused to allow ex-service men to be brought in to do work where there was abundant employment.The PRIME MINISTER
indicated assent. indicated assent.The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
: The Report will be in the hands of Members early next week and until they have had an opportunity of considering it I think it would be premature to answer this Question.The PRIME MINISTER
: I am not inclined to think that it would be desirable to take the course suggested by the hon. Member.The PRIME MINISTER
: A reply was sent from Moscow on 5th February. The reply proposed certain amendments in the agreement proposed by His Majesty's Government, and those amendments are now under consideration. It is understood that M. Krassin will shortly be back in London.The PRIME MINISTER
: I am not sure about that.The PRIME MINISTER
: I do not think so.The PRIME MINISTER
260: No decision has yet been reached as to the
260The PRIME MINISTER
262: As hon. Members are no doubt aware, I received a deputation on this subject yesterday and made to its members a full statement as to the Government's interpretation of the pledge referred to. The machinery for giving effect to the promise is now under
262The PRIME MINISTER
263: It was left to the Farmers' Secretary and to the
263The PRIME MINISTER
: I do not know whether that is a complaint on the part of my hon. and gallant Friend that I received a deputation from the farmers. If I received a deputation from the farmers I was bound to reply to them, and I think I did what the House of Commons would wish me to do when I explained to them what the views of the Government were on the subject. Of course, if an opportunity had been afforded in the course of the discussion on the Address before I had received them I should certainly have made the explanation in the first instance to the House, but I am sure no one representing a farmers' constituency will complain that I made a statement to the farmers.The PRIME MINISTER
: I certainly never said that. [HON. MEMBERS: "Yes."] I say no.The PRIME MINISTER
: No, Sir. The question is one which can only be decided by a Court of Law in each particular case.The PRIME MINISTER
: Instructions were given that a full statement of the farmers' case as well as the reply of the Government would be sent to the Press.The PRIME MINISTER
: That is not so. The farmers did not make that complaint yesterday. Quite a large percentage, if not the highest percentage, of the wheat ground in this country was homegrown wheat as compared with preceding years. I made a statement to the farmers yesterday that if the percentage were lower than the average, to that extent the Government would recognise that fact.The PRIME MINISTER
: I cannot say anything more definite than that they will be brought to an end before the close of the present financial year.The PRIME MINISTER
: I think some of them must be transferred to deal with certain matters which were dealt with by other Ministries before the War, and perhaps to liquidate these matters.The PRIME MINISTER
: I understand this subject will be discussed fully on the Address, to-morrow.The PRIME MINISTER
: I cannot commit myself to that at the present moment, but up to the present the West Indies have not been represented at any of these Conferences. It would, I imagine, be necessary to consult the Dominions.The PRIME MINISTER
: As was fully explained by the Leader of the House on the 17th November last, in reply to a question by the hon. Member, the meeting will be on the lines of the Imperial War Cabinet meetings of 1917 and 1918. The answer to the last part of the question is in the negative.The PRIME MINISTER
: Yes. I think it is very likely that there will be certain questions to be dealt with by the Conference which will not be discussed by the Cabinet.The PRIME MINISTER
: When does the hon. Baronet think that these Regulations will be laid? Will it be in the course of the next month?Sir D. MACLEAN
: Does the right hon. Gentleman bear in mind the rule of the House that on the Consolidated Fund Bill the discussion is always confined to what is in the Bill, and that unless we have very special indulgence from the Chair it will not afford the opportunity asked for, which is desired by the Whole House?Sir D. MACLEAN
332"In August last, while the barometer was still high and the going firm and the
332"I do not think that the answers…indicate that a period of widespread unemployment is rapidly approaching but they point to some decline in industrial activity generally and some hesitancy in certain trades. But there is also ground for the belief that the world's demand for many classes of commodities is still far from satisfied and that in the larger trades the present slackening is only temporary."— [OFFICIAL REPORT, 5th August, 1920; col. 2679, Vol. 132.]"Whether his attention has been called to the replies of the various chambers of commerce throughout the country to the circular addressed to them by the Association of Chambers of Commerce; whether the majority of these replies indicate the probability that a period of widespread unemployment is rapidly approaching.""I am glad to say that employment in the principal industries of the United Kingdom is still maintained at a high level, and is much better than a year ago."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 30th June, 1920; col. 432, Vol. 131.]331330329328: The Debate yesterday ranged, as it was bound to do, over a very large number of factors, which hon. Members thought were relevant when considering this most important question. There is no doubt at all about the gravity of the problem or its widespread nature. Two speeches delivered at the end of yesterday's Debate brought out very clearly two different points of view. The first was delivered by my hon. Friend the Member for Silvertown (Mr. J. Jones), and, if he will permit me to say so, it was the best speech, or certainly one of the best speeches, that I have heard him deliver in the House on any topic. It was suffused with a personal knowledge of the question of unemployment, and it was also temperate in tone and not in the least degree threatening. It was in line with the feeling of the whole House, which desires to find some alleviation and ultimately the cure for this great and distressing problem. The other speech was delivered by my hon. Friend who represents one of the Divisions of Lancashire (Mr. Hopkinson).332"In August last, while the barometer was still high and the going firm and the
332"I do not think that the answers…indicate that a period of widespread unemployment is rapidly approaching but they point to some decline in industrial activity generally and some hesitancy in certain trades. But there is also ground for the belief that the world's demand for many classes of commodities is still far from satisfied and that in the larger trades the present slackening is only temporary."— [OFFICIAL REPORT, 5th August, 1920; col. 2679, Vol. 132.]"Whether his attention has been called to the replies of the various chambers of commerce throughout the country to the circular addressed to them by the Association of Chambers of Commerce; whether the majority of these replies indicate the probability that a period of widespread unemployment is rapidly approaching.""I am glad to say that employment in the principal industries of the United Kingdom is still maintained at a high level, and is much better than a year ago."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 30th June, 1920; col. 432, Vol. 131.]331330329328Sir D. MACLEAN
335334333: Of course it was. How could anybody object to anything being done when the disaster was on us? The point that I made at the time was that it ought to have been brought in before. I charge His Majesty's Government on this great question of unemployment with serious dereliction of their duty. They ought to have been awake, and they ought to have known that this blue- sky which he saw, this high barometer, were deceptive signs of the real situation. With regard to one or two of the causes of it, one of the chief causes for our own acute position is our own mismanagement of our own affairs, and our huge, ghastly, extravagant expenditure on unproductive ends. I am astounded to find that in the present Parliament in two Budgets the Army, Navy, and Air Force alone have taken £882,000,000. I admit at once that in the first year after the War great expenditure could not be avoided, but what justification could there be in two years to spend nearly £900,000,000 on the military forces of this
335334333Sir D. MACLEAN
: Do I understand my right hon. Friend to say that the conduct of the proceedings which form the subject of this Report of the learned County Court Judge compares unfavourably with the impartial proceedings of the military officers, in whom the right hon. Gentleman reposes so much confidence?Sir D. MACLEAN
40.  asked the Prime Minister what is the present position with regard to the conclusion of a trade agreement with Russia?Mr. BRIANT
: May I take it that if a private employer makes a case out he can be assisted and can keep his business on?Mr. BARNES
343: Before he leaves the question of credits, might I ask the hon.
343Mr. G. BARNES
: I am sure my hon. Friend has no desire to misrepresent me. What I said was that, so far as I understood the Draft Agreement, it contained two conditions, either of which would be fatal to trade with Russia. On the one hand, if the Russians sent gold here they ran the risk of having it attached for former debts, and, on the other hand, there was a condition that they should give up their propaganda. I expressed my opinion that they never would, and never could.Mr. G. BARNES
358357: This Debate, as far as I have listened to it, puts us in an extremely awkward position. We go to our constituencies and we pledge ourselves that we are going in for a reduction of expenditure and are going to try to get a £900,000,000 Budget, and yet the whole tenour of this Debate so far has been directly calling on the Government enormously to increase expenditure. I cannot imagine for a moment how we are going to give these doles or allowances to the unemployed at anything like the amount the last speaker mentioned without an enormous increase in expenditure and without also adding to unemployment. I listened with great interest to the speech of the new Leader of the Labour party and towards the end of it I interjected the question, what remedy he had to propose for unemployment. He did not give us the slightest idea of what the remedy was, and neither has any speaker on the other side that I have listened to. We have heard of palliatives which they probably think may be more or less of a temporary character, but suppose they are not of a temporary character, where is the money going to come from that is to find this amount of pay for those who are out of employment? May I remind hon. Mem-
358357Mr. RENWICK
361"that these efforts will be seconded by loyal and frank co-operation between employers and employed, for it is through the cooperation of capital and labour in a spirit of mutual trust and confidence that an early solution of this grave problem is to be found."360"I earnestly trust "—359: The price is much less than we asked for it. I am talking about what I understand. They have got into our markets, and how we are going to get them out I cannot say. It is no good beating about the bush. The cause to a large extent of unemployment is that the cost of production is too high. In other words, we cannot get the cost price of that which we are making. Let me give a small illustration. Very recently you saw all the drapers' shops crammed with beautiful goods. You saw women looking at them and saying, "I should like to buy those things, but they are too dear." As soon as the annual sales came on and the goods were reduced, you saw queues of people fighting to get into the shops. These foreign countries still want our goods, and if we could provide them cheaper they would buy them, but you cannot supply them cheaper, because the cost of production is too high. I never knew, in all my long experience as a business man, such madness as I have seen during the last two years. We have had the ball at our feet for two years. We had the opportunity of paying good wages, making large profits and general prosperity, but we threw the
361"that these efforts will be seconded by loyal and frank co-operation between employers and employed, for it is through the cooperation of capital and labour in a spirit of mutual trust and confidence that an early solution of this grave problem is to be found."360"I earnestly trust "—359Mr. RENWICK
post-mortem405404: I do not propose to follow the last speaker in the very interesting speech which he has made. He did not agree with anybody, and he produced several solutions of his own which, I think, were as good as those of any other person But I do not see how he approaches this question of mobility of labour, which is a very difficult thing to-day, in view of the present shortage of houses and the condition of the building trade. But my object is not so much concerned with that technical part of this great question, but rather to speak of it from the point of view of the foreign exchanges, and how, to ray mind, they affect this great problem. It was said yesterday by my hon. Friend the Member for Farnham (Mr. A. M. Samuel) that a return to the old system of giving silver a status was worth the consideration of the Government, and the Deputy-Minister for Labour to-day, in his reference to the subject, seemed to have some sympathy with that point of view. If we hope to sell our goods overseas, the first thing we could wish for is that those people who buy them should have some money with which to pay for them. If there is not enough gold in the world to go round, I would suggest that, with the absence of the gold currency, which we all like, silver is much better currency than the worthless paper which is now all over Europe.post-mortem405404Mr. STEWART
: I am aware of the case to which the hon. Member (Sir F. Hall) refers in the sense that I have read of it in the newspapers. Whether in the circumstances the offences can be described as comparatively innocuous I cannot say. With regard to the more serious offences, undoubtedly every step will be taken. Hitherto, until, at any rate, the end of last year, it was not possible to say that there had been unreasonable delay. I think that the time has come when it is possible. I am not aware of passports, in the circumstances referred to by my hon. Friend (Sir H. Brittain), having been refused, and I believe, as a fact, that some at any rate of these accused persons are under arrest.Sir G. HEWART
: I have already dealt with that in the answer which T have read.Sir G. HEWART
: I do not know that the word "immediately" was used.Sir G. HEWART
271: It may be so, but I should be surprised to see that word in a document contemplating all the preliminary procedure, not only of a criminal trial, but of a criminal trial of enemies, conducted in one country when the evidence against them has to be collected in another. Undoubtedly the general inten-
271Sir G. HEWART
: Undoubtedly it is.Sir G. HEWART
: No. My right hon. Friend will remember that in the Treaty the person to whom he refers was dealt with in a separate article.Sir G. HEWART
270bona fides269: I have been asked to answer these questions. In accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty of Peace with Germany, lists of accused persons were prepared by the principal Allied and Associated Governments, and after careful investigation of the evidence available in each case a final list was compiled and presented to the German Government on the 3rd February, 1920. The German Government represented that grave political difficulties would ensue if the Allied and Associated Governments insisted upon the surrender of the persons accused and proposed that the persons accused should be tried by the Supreme Court in Leipzig. An Inter-Allied Commission was set up to examine this suggestion, and it was ultimately decided that
270bona fides269The ATTORNEY-GENERAL (Sir Gordon Hewart)
: Does that mean that a large part of the personnel will have to be transferred to other Departments, or will they be wiped out?Major WHELER
31.  asked the Prime Minister the dates on which it is proposed to end the Ministry of Food, the Ministry of Munitions, and the Ministry of Shipping?Major WHELER
250: That is a hypothetical question. I have been perfectly fair in my answer. I shall send a wire off within the next few minutes, and if the right hon. Gentleman will put down a question to-morrow for noon and he is
250Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I received notice of this question about fifteen minutes ago. I do not accept the right hon. Gentleman's statement of fact, because it is the rule governing all these military courts of inquiry to allow counsel, solicitors or friends of the parties interested to attend; but I shall certainly make inquiry into the matter.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I must make inquiry before I can give any undertaking.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I must decline to draw any such comparison between the County Court Judge and the military officers. The County Court Judge's functions are one thing, and the functions of the military officers another.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I cannot accept that statement of fact from the hon. Member.Sir H. GREENWOOD
Dr. Dyer, M.D., Medical Inspector of Prisons.Dr. East, M.D., Medical Officer, Liverpool Prison.Dr. M. Hamblin Smith, Medical Officer, His Majesty's Prison, Birmingham.Dr. William Dawson, M.O., His Majesty's Inspector of Asylums, Ireland.Lieut. - Colonel Nicholls, R.A.M.C., Medical Officer, Cork Detention Barracks.Colonel W. G. Beyts, C.B.E., A.M.S., A.D.M.S., Cork.
Dr. Dyer, M.D., Medical Inspector of Prisons.Dr. East, M.D., Medical Officer, Liverpool Prison.Dr. M. Hamblin Smith, Medical Officer, His Majesty's Prison, Birmingham.Dr. William Dawson, M.O., His Majesty's Inspector of Asylums, Ireland.Lieut. - Colonel Nicholls, R.A.M.C., Medical Officer, Cork Detention Barracks.Colonel W. G. Beyts, C.B.E., A.M.S., A.D.M.S., Cork.: Cadet Hart has been tried by court-martial and convicted of murder, but was found to have been insane at the time of committing the crime. He was sentenced to be detained during His Majesty's pleasure and is at present under detention awaiting transfer to a criminal lunatic asylum. The conduct of the other cadets who were present on the occasion of the murders has been the subject of a careful and searching official investigation. The officer commanding the company of which these men were members has been suspended.Dr. Dyer, M.D., Medical Inspector of Prisons.Dr. East, M.D., Medical Officer, Liverpool Prison.Dr. M. Hamblin Smith, Medical Officer, His Majesty's Prison, Birmingham.Dr. William Dawson, M.O., His Majesty's Inspector of Asylums, Ireland.Lieut. - Colonel Nicholls, R.A.M.C., Medical Officer, Cork Detention Barracks.Colonel W. G. Beyts, C.B.E., A.M.S., A.D.M.S., Cork.
Dr. Dyer, M.D., Medical Inspector of Prisons.Dr. East, M.D., Medical Officer, Liverpool Prison.Dr. M. Hamblin Smith, Medical Officer, His Majesty's Prison, Birmingham.Dr. William Dawson, M.O., His Majesty's Inspector of Asylums, Ireland.Lieut. - Colonel Nicholls, R.A.M.C., Medical Officer, Cork Detention Barracks.Colonel W. G. Beyts, C.B.E., A.M.S., A.D.M.S., Cork.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, Cadet Hart was a chum and companion of Cadet Chapman, who was massacred in an ambush a few days before in Cork, and undoubtedly that had an effect on his mind.Sir H. GREENWOOD
247: The hon. Member presumably refers to the destruction of some houses in Kilroe district on the 19th ultimo. No houses were destroyed on the 26th ultimo. The reason for the destruction on the 19th ultimo was that a party of Crown Forces who were engaged in searching for persons suspected of having taken part in an ambush of police on the previous day, when seven auxiliary cadets were wounded, were fired upon from the houses in question, one of which was found to be a regular rebel arsenal. In the course of its
247Sir H. GREENWOOD
: That is a most unfair imputation to make on these six medical officers drawn from different parts of the country who examined this murderer—so found—at different periods and came to the same conclusion. This murderer is detained at His Majesty's pleasure, which means as long as he remains insane?Sir H. GREENWOOD
249: I propose to answer these questions together. I must respectfully decline to discuss the evi-
249Sir H. GREENWOOD
: It is impossible to answer that question off-hand.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have said that it is not possible to give the number.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: It is not possible to give the exact number of non-combatants killed by the Crown Forces in Ireland during this period. The majority of these casualties have occurred in an exchange of lire following upon attacks on military and police lorries in crowded places, and although the real responsibility in such cases is obviously upon the Sinn Fein attackers, there can be no doubt that a certain proportion of the deaths have resulted unavoidably from the fire of the Crown Forces. In addition, 17 persons have been killed in resisting arrest, or in attempting to escape from custody, or owing to their failure to halt when challenged.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I think it does, speaking for myself.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: In reply to the last question, I understand that in his pre-judicial days Mr. Bodkin was editor of that paper.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The Crown has no status at any of these inquiries, which are held before the County Court Judge, under the Criminal Injuries Act, to assess damages.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The reply to the other supplementary questions is that the money is payable by the ratepayers of the localities affected under the Criminal Injuries Act, passed by this House.Sir H. GREENWOOD
ex-parte: I have received the report to which the hon. and gallant Member refers. The money is payable by the ratepayers of the localities affected. The report in question goes far outside the functions of the learned Judge, and is largely based on ex-parteSir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes. I am aware of that. I cannot accept the words of the hon. Member as an exact interpretation of the article. The matter is being considered by my legal advisers.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, I have.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: If a policeman disobeyed my instructions he would be dismissed on the spot.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: To inform the police of the views of the Anti-Sinn Fein Society as quoted by the "Morning Post."Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am not going to be drawn into making comparisons between the respective merits and demerits of the various branches of the Crown Forces in Ireland. They are all engaged in doing their duty in exceptionally trying and difficult circumstances. As for the preposterous allegation about the Black and Tans and the Auxiliaries being driven out of Cork at the point of the bayonet by General Strickland's orders I need hardly assure the House that it is entirely untrue. This General has expressed to me personally his appreciation of the work of both branches of the police in his command.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: That question has been answered by the Prime Minister.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I would refer my hon. Friend to the reply given to his question on this subject on the 16th December, and I would add that the question of taking legal action in this matter is under consideration.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The policy pursued in Ireland is, as far as possible, exactly the same for all persons and all papers.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I will communicate the hon. and gallant Gentleman's supplementary question to the Commander-in-Chief of the Forces in Ireland. I cannot express the opinion of the Army except through the general officer commanding.Sir H. GREENWOOD
Special Constabulary.Special Constabulary.Royal Irish Constabulary (Auxiliary Division).Royal Irish Constabulary (Auxiliary Division).Royal Irish Constabulary (Regular Force).Royal Irish Constabulary (Regular Force).Military.Military.
Special Constabulary.Special Constabulary.Royal Irish Constabulary (Auxiliary Division).Royal Irish Constabulary (Auxiliary Division).Royal Irish Constabulary (Regular Force).Royal Irish Constabulary (Regular Force).Military.Military.239: The casualties among the forces of the Crown during
Special Constabulary.Special Constabulary.Royal Irish Constabulary (Auxiliary Division).Royal Irish Constabulary (Auxiliary Division).Royal Irish Constabulary (Regular Force).Royal Irish Constabulary (Regular Force).Military.Military.
Special Constabulary.Special Constabulary.Royal Irish Constabulary (Auxiliary Division).Royal Irish Constabulary (Auxiliary Division).Royal Irish Constabulary (Regular Force).Royal Irish Constabulary (Regular Force).Military.Military.239Sir H. GREENWOOD
: With the greatest of pleasure.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: It is obviously undesirable in the interests of the police themselves that I should make public the information asked for in my hon. Friend's question: but I can assure him that no effort is being spared to afford the greatest possible protection to men engaged on dangerous patrol duties in disaffected or disturbed areas. The number of armoured cars is increasing every week.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: As I have already stated in the House, the Weekly Summary is issued from the police headquarters, Dublin, to the police. It is not true that any instructions as mentioned have been given by that publication. I am sending the hon. Member a copy of the Weekly Summary in question.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The number of members of the Crown Forces who have been assassinated in Ireland since the 22nd December, 1920, is 56. Many persons have been arrested in connection with these crimes, and will be tried in due course.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: That is so.Sir H. GREENWOOD
241: The Resolution was first published in the "Morning Post" of London and a quotation from
241Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I will see that you do get it, and back numbers also. My answer is that no such instructions have been issued by the police or in the Weekly Summary.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: My hon. and gallant Friend has himself received every week a copy of the Weekly Summary.Sir H. GREENWOOD
 asked the Prime Minister what instructions have been given to millers by the Food Controller and the Wheat Commission respectively in regard to the purchase, use, and distribution of home-grown supplies of wheat; and whether the instructions have been consistent with the spirit of the pledges given to farmers by His Majesty's Government in relation to the disposal of home-grown wheat?Mr. WILSON-FOX
: The Board's attitude on the matter is fully explained in the correspondence between Lord Burnham and myself, which has been published, and of which I am sending the hon. Member a copy. The local education authorities are now engaged in con sidering the Report in the light of that correspondence.The PRESIDENT of the BOARD of EDUCATION (Mr. Fisher)
: The Board is prepared to do what is right.Mr. FISHER
: Was it one of the conditions in the Allied Note to Germany agreeing to the trial of these men in Germany that the trial should take place immediately—18 months ago?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: Why not have the trial over here?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: Yes, the word "immediately."Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: Some of them have left.Mr. BOTTOMLEY
46.  asked the Prime Minister whether he will give the names of German officers and others whom the British Government accuses of crimes against the laws of warfare; whether any of such persons have yet been brought to trial, and, if not, what progress has been made with a view to bringing them before the Court; and whether at the trial Britain will be represented by one of the Law Officers of the Crown?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: If the skull does arrive in this country, can it be exhibited in the Tea Room, so that hon. Members may compare it with the skulls of some of His Majesty's Ministers?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
45.  asked the Prime Minister whether he will consider the desirableness of introducing a measure under which such an offence as that in respect of which the Member for East Leyton is now suffering a term of imprisonment would automatically vacate a scat in this House?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that last November two auxiliaries deliberately walked into a house in Dublin, shot a young man—Mr. LAWSON
: Has it been decided by the medical authorities how long this cadet is going to remain insane?Mr. LAWSON
: I am very glad of that interruption. You stand for a system which makes a dole at times inevitable. I suggest a system which will get rid of doles entirely.Mr. KIDD
397: What Labour Members are suffering from is the get-rich-quick mind.
397Mr. KIDD
non possumus396: I will develop my views further. Our difficulty at present is the want of elasticity in the industrial system. You have two parties representing capital and labour standing in cast-iron fashion against each other. If, on the other hand, you secure the common objective in industry for which I plead, you will have
non possumus396Mr. KIDD
395394393392391: In this Debate we are seeking to discover possible causes of unemployment and to get a hint of any possible cure. We can make a good beginning by casting aside any idea that we shall ever escape completely unemployment with the world divided as it is to-day. The most we can ever hope for is to so adjust our industrial system that it will tend to make unemployment less recurrent and enable us to modify the evil effects of unemployment when it does overtake use. Every Member of this House is in the unhappy position that he may be suspected of being either a capitalist or a labourite. It seems to me that the man outside sees more of the game than the combatants engaged inside. There is just a tendency for the trade unionists to blame the capitalists and for the capitalists to blame the trade unionists, and, of course, for most of us to blame the Government. One wonders whether in seeking for the scapegoat we are not trying to escape our own measure of responsibility.395394393392391Mr. KIDD
: I mean the co-operative movement. A few primitive efforts were made previously, but the Industrial and Provident Societies Act was as recent as 1875, and to-day it has stock amounting to tens of millions. Can the Labour party go to the country and say the worker meantime is to remain a class apart, and that he, unlike his leaders, is to be subject to this and the next restriction, that a man with a wife and family is not to be allowed to earn more than a single man, that a strong man is not to be allowed more than a weak man, or an energetic man to earn more than a lazy man? That is the position of the worker to-day under the methods of our trade union leaders. But it does not apply to the worker's leader. He is in a class apart. He represents the aristocracy of labour in its most blatant form. What I want to do is to secure to the individual worker precisely the same opportunity of progress as is kept by the loader for himself. Speaking as the representative of an industrial constituency which would not have a Labour Member at any price —[HON. MEMBERS: "DO not be too sure."]—at any rate, I offer the challenge—I am entitled to claim for the worker the freedom for which I plead. At the present time you have standardised him in such a way that he is making no progress, and all the time we are talking of social reform and of our anxiety to help the worker's cause. If we are really in earnest about this question of unemployment, let us do something practical now, or let us for ever hold our peace; the Labour party particularly.Mr. KIDD
: A quarter of a million advanced.Mr. KILEY
37.  asked the Prime Minister whether the shooting of railway men at Mallow is to be investigated by an impartial inquiry?Mr. KILEY
: The question relates to events since the 22nd December.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. and gallant Gentleman must give notice.Mr. SPEAKER
: I understand this is the case of a County Court Judge, not a Judge of the High Court, and it does not therefore come within the Rules.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. and gallant Gentleman is not entitled to frame his reference in that way.Mr. SPEAKER
: The House will desire me to send a suitable reply.Mr. SPEAKER
President of the State Assembly of Esthonia."STRANDMAN,de jure,The Supreme Council in Paris having agreed to the de jure,15th February, 1921."Reval,: I have to report that I have received the following telegram from the President of the State Assembly of Esthonia:
President of the State Assembly of Esthonia."STRANDMAN,de jure,The Supreme Council in Paris having agreed to the de jure,15th February, 1921."Reval,Mr. SPEAKER
: It is very hard to rule beforehand, and until I hear the actual proposition I cannot say whether it will be in order or not. It is obvious that the general topic of expenditure and economy must be in order where the House is asked to vote some hundreds of millions towards the upkeep of the Services of the country.Mr. SPEAKER
: The Consolidated Fund Bill, which will have to be taken before the close of the financial year, will include the Votes on Account for all the Civil Services, and the Votes on Account for the Army, the Navy, and the Air Forces. That seems to me to include all public expenditure, and in discussing all public expenditure there must be an opportunity of expressing views in favour of economy.Mr. SPEAKER
: We have 150 questions on the Paper.Mr. SPEAKER
: As this affects not only 150, but many thousands, may I not be allowed to put a further question?Sir J. REMNANT
roseSir J. REMNANT
21.  asked the Home Secretary how many police authorities have increased the pensions of retired police officers in accordance with the provisions of the Police (Pensions) Act, 1920; how many police authorities have refused to give any increase whatsoever; how many have given less than the percentage increase authorised by Parliament; how many have not yet paid the money duo to pensioners; and if he will give the names of the respective authorities in each case?Sir JAMES REMNANT
259: Can my hon. and gallant Friend make a statement, in view of what took place in Committee on the Bill, whether these police authorities have a discretion or not to grant an increase
259Sir J. REMNANT
43.  asked the Prime Minister if it has been brought to his notice that no further useful purpose can be served by continuing the control of the flour mills and by controlling the price of flour to the community; and whether, according to the world market price of wheat, the maximum price of the 4 lb. loaf should be 10d., in view of the fact that control is responsible for unnecessary hardships inflicted on the consumer?Sir J. REMNANT
: No, it is not.Mr. SEXTON
: That is no endorsement of it.Mr. SEXTON
376: If it is, I want to say that in my humble opinion it is a grave mistake to lay down any such conditions. The greatest assistance and encouragement that could be given to Bolshevik propaganda in this country is the unrest and the fear of unemployment. No revolutionary propaganda can take place in any country that is prosperous, and where the men, women, and children are provided with the necessaries of life. It is only when causes contribute to revolutionary propaganda that revolutionary propaganda can take root, and the greatest safety any country can have is by removing the causes of unrest and dissatisfaction, and I would not care two-pence for all the revolutionary propaganda that could be introduced by Bolsheviks or anybody else. For that reason, I regret extremely the very meagre suggestions that are being made by the Government to solve the unemployed problem. The right hon. Member for the
376Mr SEXTON
375"Mister, I quite agree with a lot of what you have said, but I cannot agree with
375: One of the statements made by the right hon. Member for the Gorbals Division was that one of the reasons why we should not trade with Russia was the instability of the Russian Government and their want of guarantees, and that the other reason was that they refused to stop their propaganda. I detest Russian Bolshevism. I think it is a fallacy, and when I am accused by the right hon. Member for Norwich with being saturated with class war and the Karl Marx theory, again I question his accuracy and, more than all, his memory. I think I have told this House before that there was a time when I was an ardent advocate of the Karl Marx theory, but that was in the days of my pristine political vigour, when I expected the millennium to come the next day. The first Parliamentary fight I was in was in 1895. I think thirty-five of us were selected and were looked upon as a forlorn hope. I know we thought we had only to call and the multitude would come to us. I fought a constituency myself—Ashton-under-Lyne—in 1895, and I think I got 450 votes out of about 14,000. Undismayed, we went back to the committee room, and we sang "England, arise; the long, long night is o'er." I have a very vivid recollection of that occasion, for I made a speech which lasted from eight o'clock till eleven. I told them that interest was immoral, that banking was usury, that money was the wrong medium of exchange, and that the only solution of economic problems was the interchange of commodities—corn for flour, flour for boots, and so on. At the end of the meeting one of the audience put a question to me in the broad Lancashire dialect, and he said:
375"Mister, I quite agree with a lot of what you have said, but I cannot agree with
375Mr. SEXTON
: I do not think anyone detests more than myself the Bolshevik system of government, but for the moment I am not concerned about it.Mr. SEXTON
374373372371370369: It has been my privilege to listen to most of the speeches during this Debate. The last speaker and the hon. Member for Newcastle (Mr. Renwick) made what I regard as valuable contributions to our discussion to-day. From the employer's point of view, the speech of the hon. Member for Newcastle, although it was essentially frank, deserves serious consideration, coming as it did from a man with the knowledge and practical experience which he possesses. The speech was moderation itself, but when the hon. Member complains about industrial unrest, I would, respectfully, suggest to him that he should take into consideration the circumstances which brought about that unrest. The War upset all our pre-con-ceived notions of economics and the method of conducting, industrial disputes. Influences were at work, and, to be quite frank, those influences are still at work, and they are of such a character as to make it very difficult for responsible trade union officials to prevent strikes. Speaking for myself, and I have no doubt for many of my colleagues, I say that no one is more anxious than we to see this old country on her feet again. To be frank again, I say that some of the disputes could not be justified, and I am not going to attempt to justify them. But we were not alone in that respect. Every other country was affected equally during the period mentioned, and the same influences were at work elsewhere as in this country. There is force in the argument that after the signing of the Armistice the trade of the world was at our door. Officials of trade unions were as anxious as the hon. Member for Newcastle to get our share of that trade.374373372371370369Mr. SEXTON
: I am obliged for that interpretation, but, reading the speech of the right hon. Gentleman in the OFFICIAL REPORT, I took the impression that, in the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman himself, no trade could be opened with Russia without the condition was recognised that they should stop their propaganda. As I said before, I am not concerned about Bolshevik propaganda. I do not think, under any circumstances, such a policy could take root in this country; at least, hope not.Mr. SEXTON
378377: One of the propositions of the right hon. Member was that, although the Government could not take the responsibility of trading with Russia, private individuals for private enterprise could do so. An hon. Member says they are doing it now They may be doing it in one or two isolated cases, but there does not seem any general desire to do it. Yet here is a country with potential wealth wanting facilities to tap that wealth, and surely the Government and Cabinet ought to be able to discover some means whereby that wealth could be tapped, and so give employment to our idle hands who cannot exist on the miserable dole of 18s. a week Let me speak now as one who knows something about
378377Mr. SEXTON
: I do not ask for the case to be prejudged, but if, as I repeat, his statement to this House as to representation at, and the methods of, inquiries in Ireland has not been carried out, will he hold a further inquiry in view of the instructions that he has submitted to this House?Mr. THOMAS
: If such inquiry proves that my statement of the fact is correct, namely, that solicitors were refused permission to he present, does he agree now that a further inquiry must be held into the matter?Mr. THOMAS
: I beg to give notice that I will put down the question for tomorrow.Mr. THOMAS
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. J. H. THOMAS
356355354353352351: With the exception of an attempted cut in wages in the shipwrights' industry in the North of England, I have heard of no serious dispute in the ship-repairing industry. There are few bigger ship-repairing centres in the country than those in the North of England, and all I can say is that if shipowners are going to transfer their ships to Hamburg for repair, because it is cheaper to get the work done there, then do not let us hear any more of the patriotic nonsense so much talked about in the past. That Very fact in itself condemns the whole argument which has been advanced. We have got to deal with this Question of unemployment as it presents itself to us now. I am not going to join in any general condemnation of the Department. I think I am right in saying that the heads of the Ministry of Labour are desirous of doing their best. But they are not free agents. Probably they cannot do all that they would like to do. I am not condemning them for any action they have taken. But I join issue with the statements made by the right hon. Gentleman. As far back as 1917 we made representations on behalf of the Labour party, urging the Government to prepare for the very state of things which obtains
356355354353352351Mr. WIGNALL
350349348347346: We have listened with very great interest to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who has been replying for the Government on this most important question. There are some points of his speech with which we are somewhat in agreement. There are some points with which we are in disagreement, but not points of disagreement that cannot possibly be reconciled. I think that the more we discuss these matters, the more we go into the details of finding remedies for the gravest problem of modern life, unemployment, the better we will be able to evolve some scheme that in due course will meet the needs of the moment. On the last point of maintenance, you will remember that Lord Shaw made a very strong recommendation in his Report on the Dock Inquiry. The first attempt having miserably failed, a second attempt is being made to work out a scheme that will' meet the difficulties of dock labourers, and I say that if a scheme such as I have now in my mind can be successfully managed and worked covering the dock labourers of the whole of the United Kingdom, then a scheme covering the various industries ought to be and should be a very easy matter indeed. Upon this point I think there is absolute agreement—the tragedy of unemployment is one of the bitterest things we have got to experience, and although we may stand in our places here and take our part in this discussion we have no real practical knowledge of the tragedy unless we have been through it, and in voicing our claims in this House we are only voicing something of the great volume of sorrow and misery there is in the world at the present time. I do hope and sincerely trust that the outcome of this two days' Debate will at least meet the needs of the present moment and evolve a far greater and better scheme
350349348347346Mr. WIGNALL
: The Home Secretary has already agreed to receive a deputation.Sir J. BAIRD
: The position is that the Rules have to lie on the Table of the House for twenty-one days, and during that period a Member of this or of the other House can move an Address to the King objecting to them. It does not lie with the Government or the Minister to find time.Sir J. BAIRD
255: With the permission of the House I will make a statement covering all of these questions.255The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Sir John Baird)
: Perhaps my hon. Friend will allow me to wait until I have the information complete, when I will let him have it.Sir J. BAIRD
: I have not got complete particulars, but I will obtain a return and will communicate with my hon. and gallant Friend.Sir J. BAIRD
: I will not presume to argue a matter of that sort with the right hon. Gentleman, who has had much more experience than I have, but I believe he is in error. The Government has nothing to do with it; the House has the right to discuss the matter on any day.Sir J. BAIRD
: I believe that is the case.Major BAIRD
256: Yes, I think certainly in the course of the next month. The matter is rather urgent, because, in the event of the Treaty with Turkey being ratified, the Regulations under which we can now exercise restrictions on opium and cocaine will lapse, and unless there is something to put in their place a deplorable state of affairs will be created. I am afraid I cannot give an absolute
256Sir J. BAIRD
: No.Sir J. BAIRD
: Certainly; we are in consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture.Sir J. BAIRD
: I think my right hon. Friend is aware that a certain amount of unpopularity has been aroused by them. He is doing his best to meet the objections so far as he legitimately can, having regard to our international obligations.Sir J. BAIRD
: That is perfectly true.Sir J. BAIRD
: I believe the facts are exactly as stated by the hon. Gentleman. During the War there was a marked increase of juvenile delinquency, but I am glad to say that recent figures do not bear out my hon. and gallant Friend's assumption. The figures for 1919 showed a great decrease on those for the War period, and indeed, fell below those for 1913 and 1914. The censorship of films is conducted by a board appointed by the trade, and my right hon. Friend has no authority to issue instructions to them. Their last report shows that they are alive to the need for exercising a close supervision over films depicting crime. If my hon. and gallant Friend has any information as to objectionable films which have been approved by the Board of Film Censors, or which are being exhibited without their approval, the Home Office would be glad to communicate with them.Sir J. BAIRD
258: That is so. We have no authority at all. The censorship is imposed entirely by the trade and the cen-
258Sir J. BAIRD
: Have any of these officers been arrested for these crimes?Mr. RAWLINSON
: At whose expense was this Report of Judge Bodkin circulated to Members of this House? Is it part of the duty of a County Court Judge to circularise Members of Parliament on matters outside his jurisdiction?Mr. RAWLINSON
17. 252 asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department
252Mr. JOHNSTONE
15.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether Chesham House is occupied by an individual calling himself Chargé d'Affaires of the Russian Government; whether he is aware, that this house was at one time occupied by the Russian Embassy; whether he can state what Government in Russia this individual claims to represent; whether a policeman is kept on duty outside the house; and who bears the expense of this police protection?Mr. NEIL MACLEAN
: There has been a wage dispute in this industry.Mr. NEIL MACLEAN
13.  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland how many non-combatants, men, women, and children, have been killed by the Forces of the Crown since 22nd December last; and what is the estimated total value of the property destroyed in Ireland during that period by the Forces of the Crown, exclusive of the property destroyed by order under martial law?Mr. MOSLEY
11.  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether 15 houses were destroyed by auxiliary police, resulting in an estimated damage of £25,000, in the village of Kilroe, Galway, on 26th January last; whether these houses were burnt with the authority of His Majesty's Government; and, if not, what action has been taken in the matter?Mr. MOSLEY
240: Does not the right hon. Gentleman think that the time has come
240Mr. MOSLEY
: Is it a fact that, so far, only one assassin has been convicted and executed?Mr. MOSLEY
12.  asked the Chief Secretary how many members of the forces of the Crown in Ireland have been assassinated since 22nd December last; and whether he has yet been successful in securing the arrest, conviction, and execution of more than one of the perpetrators of these crimes?Mr. MOSLEY
: They do not become operative until after the expiration of twenty-one days?Mr. RAFFAN
: Will the Rules become operative before the discussion which has been promised takes place in this House, or will the Minister be guided by the views of members of this House before the regulations assume their final form?Mr. RAFFAN
38.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is now in a position to have published the agreements and protocols which modify or interpret the Treaty of Versailles?Mr. RAFFAN
: Fireworks!Mr. R. RICHARDSON
: (1) The present position is that animals from all Irish ports are accepted at all British ports, for slaughter within 10 days of landing, either at the ports, or at slaughterhouses in the interior to which they are moved under licences issued by the Port Inspectors.Lieut.-Colonel SANDERS (Lord of the Treasury)
: I have nothing to add to the answer which I have given.Sir R. SANDERS
: I think the supplementary questions which have been asked show pretty clearly that this is a matter for debate rather than for question and answer.Sir R. SANDERS
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that a statement was made yesterday that a full report will be given?Mr. RONALD McNEILL
35.  asked the Prime Minister whether it is intended to publish the Strickland Report; and, if so, when it will be available for Members?Mr. GALBRAITH
390389388"It suggested the stabilisation of exchanges. He confessed quite frankly that in the present condition of the world he did not know what the suggestion meant. The rate of exchange was only a symptom of the condition of a country."387386385384: As the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Labour very truly said, no party can claim a monopoly of sympathy with those who are unemployed. Everyone in the House is in every way sympathetic to those unfortunate men who find themselves without work at the present time, and all of us desire to do everything possible to alleviate their loss and to prevent it in the future. The State has for many years recognised its responsibility to maintain those who could not maintain themselves. For a long time the workhouse and the casual ward were considered to be the only remedy, but during the past few years we have realised that these institutions are degrading to the individual and, from the point of view of the local authority, are expensive. Looking, at it on broad grounds of finance we have discovered that it is cheaper to pay a family a subsistence allowance and enable them to continue in their own homes rather than put them into the workhouse and provide everything for them. Therefore at the present time, having regard to the fact that there are so many men who are without work, the payment of unemployment grant is a necessity and is probably the best method of coping with the State
390389388"It suggested the stabilisation of exchanges. He confessed quite frankly that in the present condition of the world he did not know what the suggestion meant. The rate of exchange was only a symptom of the condition of a country."387386385384Mr. HOLMES
: Is it a fact that the country millers suspended milling operation in respect of English wheat through direct instructions from the Milling Control to mix a large percentage of bad Chinese flour with flour from overseas wheat, thereby destroying the market for home-grown wheat during the latter part of November and during the months of December and January?Major HOWARD
: If my memory serves me correctly the right hon. Gentleman made the statement, pointing most emphatically to the right hon. Member for Platting (Mr. Clynes), that it was rank hypocrisy to put forward such an Amendment as that we are discussing. Year by year we have brought forward the Eight to Work Bill. It was backed indeed by the right hon. Member for the Gorbals Division (Mr. G. Barnes). I am sorry to see that he has rather gone back on some of his old beliefs and professions, though such mutations are inevitable in politics and we must not blame him. Leave out the question of the 50,000 men. What would he do with the million men remaining? If I understood the Minister of Labour correctly the unemployed are increasing in numbers very rapidly. It was known in August last that unemployment would develop very quickly. It was known then that the state of international currency was such that we could not sell our goods. It is true to say that our international export trade is the pith and marrow of our existence. There was not a single sociologist in this country who did not foresee and predict this collapse. The most experienced employers of labour told the Government many months ago what was inevitable. In 1917, 1918, 1919, and 1920 we brought forward our policy, backed unanimously by all sections of labour. Take afforestation. I remember a Royal Commission being set up in 1906. Take coast erosion, land settlement, the making of arterial roads, and so on. Hardly anything has been done in reference to these things. In afforestation what has been done?Mr. WALSH
425424: There may have been, as there often is in Debate, remarks conveying a slighting reference, and a meaning not exactly in the speaker's mind. It would be fatuous, and bordering upon falsehood, to deny that a quite substantial measure of relief is being given, but what we ought to consider is what is being done in the light of the promises that were made. I took a part in making those promises. I believe every hon. and right hon. Gentleman who made promises in the midst of the War made them in the most sincere good faith. I have never swerved from that view. We promised that when the men came back work would be found for them. We promised that we would do our best to turn our back upon the old world and to start a new one and that there should be such a process of re-construction that unemployment should not recur with the same horrible frequency as in the past. We promised a hundred and one things, and now we find that the number of ex-service men out of work has increased by about three times since August last. It is a disgraceful thing. These men fought for their country and saved the State, and they have a right to adequate maintenance because they saved the State. The hon. Member for Newcastle talked about taxation. We did not talk about taxation when the nation was passing through the most trying ordeal that any nation ever en-
425424Mr. WALSH
423debâcle422: That is quite true. There is no one in this House but must admit that proper reparation must be made; but, if there is any real good in the right hon. Gentleman's statement that loving your enemies is not only good morality but good business, surely we must remember that, while it is very difficult to conceive of any reparation that would be too formidable to ask of them, they must live in order to pay this indemnity, and they must be given an opportunity of international trade once again. The Government must have seen long beforehand how necessary it was to restore something like a reasonable parity of exchange between the various nations. What effort have they ever told this House that they have made to bring that about? We have paid a good deal of attention to it, and there seems to me to be no record at all of any distinct and continuous effort made by the Government in that direction; and this Government occupies the most responsible position among the European nations. We have undertaken a very high obligation. It was the duty of statesmen to see that this economic collapse was bound to occur unless proper measures were taken in the meantime. We are not passing wholesale condemnations upon right hon. Gentlemen opposite, but this economic collapse ought to have been foreseen, and indeed it was predicted. A similar state of things has occurred consequent and following upon every previous great war. Following upon the Napoleonic wars there was an economic collapse very like this. There was a very similar state of things after the Crimean War. There was an almost exactly similar state of things after 1870. During the few years preceding and the one or two years after 1870, there was a wave of something little better than artificial prosperity in this country. The following ten years were really the most
423debâcle422Mr. WALSH
421Interruption.: As the right hon. Gentleman resumed his seat I was reminded of a famous occasion when a great statesman, referring to another, said, "We have all been under the wand of the enchanter tonight." I think that, great as have been the oratorical successes of the right hon. Gentleman, they have been exceeded by the magnificent effort that he has made to-night.—[421Interruption.Mr. STEPHEN WALSH
: That is certainly a most refreshing statement. What we suggest is that we shall have to move on lines different from those followed by private enterprise. There are, certainly, industries which are essential to the State —not necessarily key or pivotal industries, but industries essential to the maintenance of the State itself. If we are to have a new world, if this awful spectre of unemployment is to be finally laid, if there is to be real hope for the generation to come, it can be done only by turning our backs on the old traditions.Mr. WALSH
: As this question refers to an institution for which I am responsible, though I did not get notice of it, I would ask whether it is not a fact that the Board of Censors, of which I am President, issued a year, if not two years ago, a statement to the members of the trade to the effect that they would not allow any film to be exhibited in which crime was the chief subject, and whether at the same time they announced to the trade that they would not allow any film to be produced in London in which methods of committing crime were exhibited and whether there is any instance in which the Board of Censors has departed from the rules which it laid down with the entire support and approval of the trade?Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: Of course, if the question is raised in Debate, I shall be in a position to reply, but for the moment I will satisfy myself by asking whether it is not a fact that the decision of the Board of Censors has been received with such general approval that nearly all the public licensing authorities in the country accept its sanction as a reason for exhibiting a film, and its refusal to sanction as a reason for prohibiting it?Mr. O'CONNOR
: Does that appreciation appear in the so-called General Strickland's Report?Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: Is the Home Office content with the censorship, or does it propose; to take any steps to get power to forbid the exhibition of these films?Mr. INSKIP
: Is the hon. Baronet's meaning that the Home Office has no authority at all to forbid the exhibition of films of this character?Mr. INSKIP
: By consent.The MINISTER OF LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. MYERS
: Is it not a fact that when cases occur in England and Scotland the Irish Board close the whole country against them, and is there any reason why the same procedure should not be applied to Ireland?Captain ELLIOT
: Which society do you mean?Mr. ADAMSON
6.  asked the Chief Secretary if his attention has been called to the very definite statements current in the Press that the Weekly Summary is issued by the Government to the troops in Ireland, and that the said publication recently gave instructions that in the event of one member of His Majesty's Forces being killed two members of the Sinn Fein council in Cork would be killed, and if they were not available three sympathisers would be killed, and can he say whether such instructions were in fact issued?Mr. BRIGGS
364363362: I have listened very attentively to the deliberations upon this question of unemployment, and I have been very much surprised at some of the causes of unemployment which have been alleged. I have been rather amused at the arguments introduced by the last speaker. As I am speaking in this House for the first time, I hope I shall be pardoned if I do not make the exact references to right hon. and hon. Gentlemen. The cause of unemployment at the present time has been attributed to strikes and to threats of strikes. The hon. Member who has just spoken declared that there is no need for docks or harbours being built, because the docks are already full with ships lying up. Strikes, it is said, have always reduced output. In that case, they have served the purpose of the capitalist, in so far that they have already got more production than they really can get rid of. With regard to the question of miners and the high wages of miners, it is said that the latter have caused unemployment. I would remind the House that the wages of the miner only went up in order to try to catch up with the increase in the cost of living, but they have not done so yet. The history of the miners' movement during the period of the War does not show a single application by the miners for an increase of wages other than a genuine attempt to catch up with the increase in the cost of living. The cost of living was determined by the profiteers of this country, and the higher rate of wages now given to the miners are consequent upon the fabulous profits made by the profiteers during the period of the War. In 1914—to show that my statements are correct—the miners of South Wales offered to the coalowners of South Wales that if the owners would be prepared to endeavour to do everything possible to keep the selling price of coal down, they were equally prepared to cooperate with them to refrain from asking for an increase of wages; but the owners refused that absolutely. They attempted to get us into a knot by saying that they would offer us a 10 per cent, increase in wages on condition that they would have a free hand to do as they liked. Although the miners' wages are high at the present time, the miners' wages are not high in proportion to the cost of living.364363362Mr. JOHN
274: Is it not equally fair to ask my right hon. Friend at least to instruct our delegates not to carry this through the League of Nations until after Wednesday. I have postponed the question for the Government's convenience in order that the Allies' representatives may be consulted. Will my
274Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: I had given notice to ask the Lord Privy Seal a question about the Mesopotamia Mandate, but I have had a letter from the Prime Minister asking me to postpone it until Wednesday. In view of the fact that the Mandate comes before the League of Nations on the 21st, I wish to ask that he should instruct our delegates not to put the matter through until after Wednesday.Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
22.  asked the Home Secretary whether Herr Stinnes, who shortly proposes to come to England, is on any list of Germans who are to be prosecuted for cruelty in the War?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Is it not a fact that for every beast exported from England to Ireland there are a hundred exported from Ireland to England?Captain REDMOND
: What is the reason that the same form of restriction will not suffice for Ireland as for England? Is it not a fact that there have been innumerable cases in England during the last six months and that there have been only two cases in Ireland, and the whole trade of Ireland is held up by the British Board of Agriculture? That is a. fair question and I ask an answer.Captain REDMOND
: Is the hon. and gallant Gentleman aware of the nature of the restrictions that have been imposed by the English Board of Agriculture when cases have arisen in England, namely, that a cordon of about 15 miles is drawn around an area and that outside that area absolute freedom of movement is allowed to the animals? Why should not that form of restriction be sufficient in the case of Ireland? Why is it not sufficient when only two cases have arisen in Ireland, and those two cases are within a short distance of one another, that a similar cordon should be drawn around the area and absolute freedom of movement given to the animals in all other parts of Ireland so that the ports should be open for the export of, not only fat, but store stock?Captain REDMOND
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeCaptain REDMOND
: Has the right hon. Gentleman received a report from Judge Bodkin in the County of Clare, and, if so, what steps has he taken in regard to it?Captain REDMOND
: If this statement appeared in the Weekly Summary, what attitude is taken by the Government towards the people who print such statements?Mr. W. THORNE
: Has the Government considered the advisability of doing somethings, if possible, for the very large number of unfortunate people who have put their savings into this bank.Mr. W. THORNE
: In the event of a number of the education authorities putting the Burnham Report into operation in regard to teachers' salaries, is the Board of Education prepared to assist them, on account of the extraordinary extra expenditure which they will have to incur through raising the teachers' salaries?Mr. W. THORNE
: None—parasites!Mr. W. THORNE
: The boss has the right to veto.Mr. W. THORNE
: No, no; get on with it:Mr. W. THORNE
383382381380379: I think the most hopeful sign of this Debate has been, generally speaking, the moderation of the speeches. It has been an interesting. Debate, but perhaps many of us may feel that it is a little unsatisfactory. We set out to deal with the problem of unemployment. We have touched upon a, great variety of subjects. Hon. Members have roamed somewhat far, and I think, perhaps, in the remarks I should like to make, I will divide my observations into three parts. I should like to say a few words in respect of various speeches that have been made and suggestions that have been put forward. I should like to touch upon specific Government remedies which are now proposed, and I should like to conclude by mentioning a few of the broad remedies which, I think, are essential for dealing with this question. In the first place, there are certain facts which, I am sure, command our deepest and most genuine-sympathy. We shall all agree that, a civilised community cannot possibly look with indifference upon starvation, and that an immense social evil, loaded with danger to the community, calls for urgent redress; and, further, we cannot dream of remaining inactive while the really employable are unemployed. I feel there will be no difference of opinion on either of these grounds, but when I come to listen to the various speeches, it becomes much more doubtful how far the Debate will reach a practical issue.383382381380379Mr. EVELYN CECIL
: We are planting this year every available seedling that is fit for planting, and by the end of the season we shall have planted at least 8,000 acres, which is eight times as many as were ever planted before.Mr. ACLAND
: Is it not a fact that the International Opium Agreement was come to before the League of Nations was born or thought of?Mr. ACLAND
90. 254 asked the Minister of Health whether he consulted the British Medical Association or the Pharmaceutical Society before issuing draft Regulations on the 7th January last under the Dangerous Drugs Act; whether he is aware that transactions in morphia, cocaine, heroin, opium, and ecgonino represent, roughly, half the dis-
254Lieut.-Colonel HURST
: Has a promise been extracted from the German Government that no passports will be issued to any of these individuals to enable them to leave Germany before their trial can take place?Sir HARRY BRITTA1N
24. 253 asked the Home Secretary whether in view of the strong feeling against the Dangerous Drugs Act.
253Sir HARRY HOPE
89.  asked the Minister of Health whether the Regulations under the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1920, will prevent farmers and other horse owners keeping colic draughts containing opium, the administering of which in cases of emergency often saves the lives of animals, especially where it is impossible to get veterinary aid quickly?Lieut.-Colonel Sir J. HOPE
: Is the hon. Baronet aware that the opportunities of discussing an Order laid on the Table of the House are absolutely illusory unless the Government give time for it?Sir H. CRAIK
bonâ fide: I beg to present a petition signed by 55,073 Unionist clubmen affiliated to the Association of Conservative Clubs, urging that the restrictions now placed on clubs by the Central Control Board are no longer necessary and should forthwith be withdrawn. The petitioners would remind the House that in asking the consent of Parliament to impose such restrictions the Prime Minister on 29th April, 1915, as Minister of Munitions, said that he was not proposing anything more than an act of discipline during the War, and for that purpose he proposed to take powers limited to the period of the War. The petitioners pray that your honourable House will be pleased to consider this Petition, and will cause the Government to withdraw the restrictions now being enforced on bonâ fideSir HERBERT NIELD
: The scale contained in the First Schedule of the Royal Warrant is designed to compensate merely for the specific injuries there stated. In the actual award of pension, however, due allowance is made for any concomitant loss of health, the amount of pension being based on the total extent of disablement due to or aggravated by service.Mr. MACPHERSON
13,900No further award
13,900No further award25,000Pensions terminated but gratuities awarded
25,000Pensions terminated but gratuities awarded193,850Pensions reduced
193,850Pensions reduced248,650Pensions unaltered
248,650Pensions unaltered42,600Pensions increased
42,600Pensions increased
13,900No further award
13,900No further award25,000Pensions terminated but gratuities awarded
25,000Pensions terminated but gratuities awarded193,850Pensions reduced
193,850Pensions reduced248,650Pensions unaltered
248,650Pensions unaltered42,600Pensions increased
42,600Pensions increased: During the six months ending 31st January, 1921, 525,000 men were re-examined by medical boards, for renewal or termination of pension, with the following results:
13,900No further award
13,900No further award25,000Pensions terminated but gratuities awarded
25,000Pensions terminated but gratuities awarded193,850Pensions reduced
193,850Pensions reduced248,650Pensions unaltered
248,650Pensions unaltered42,600Pensions increased
42,600Pensions increased
13,900No further award
13,900No further award25,000Pensions terminated but gratuities awarded
25,000Pensions terminated but gratuities awarded193,850Pensions reduced
193,850Pensions reduced248,650Pensions unaltered
248,650Pensions unaltered42,600Pensions increased
42,600Pensions increasedThe MINISTER of PENSIONS (Mr. Macpherson)
238: I do not know what justification there is for accusing the, Department of want of humanity, because our practice is much the reverse.238Mr. MACPHERSON
: The facts are not correctly stated in the second part of this question. The finding of the Medical Board in December, 1919, was that the man was suffering from no disablement due to service, and the Board specifically stated that there was no evidence of either tuberculosis or valvular disease of the heart. This opinion was confirmed by a Medical Appeal Board, and I am informed that it is also now shared by the medical authorities of the Brompton Hospital. In order, however, to remove any doubts which still exist, I am arranging for the man to be re-examined by a special Tuberculosis Board at an early date.Mr. MACPHERSON
4.  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland why, in the official Reports of ambushes of police in Ireland, no mention is made of armoured protection for cars and lorries; and what per centage of police cars and lorries have, in fact, been provided with armoured protection?Mr. PENNEFATHER
: In that event, will any chance be given to the British West Indies to be represented on the Conference?Mr. HURD
: Seeing that at the time of the previous Conference there were also meetings of the Imperial Conference, will that precedent be followed next June?Mr. HURD
33.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the pressing need of a cheap and self-supporting telephone service in rural districts, in the absence of which British agriculturists are out of immediate touch with their markets; and whether he will institute something more than a departmental inquiry into the means whereby such a service is provided in competitive agricultural countries such as Canada and the United States?Mr. HURD
32. 266 asked the Prime Minister what are to be the status and character of the gathering of statesmen of the Empire next June; will it be in the nature of an Imperial Cabinet or Imperial Conference, or both; and will it be possible to arrange for the direct
266Mr. HURD
23.  asked the Home Secretary whether he has received protests from the medical profession against the new Regulations made by the Home Office under the Dangerous Drugs Act on the ground that they will not only be useless and expensive but a source of danger; and whether he will again investigate the whole matter before enforcing these Regulations?Mr. CLOUGH
16.  asked the President of the Board of Education if he can now state, for the guidance of local authorities, the attitude of the Board with regard to the Report of the Burnham Committee; and how many education authorities in the country have already adopted it?Mr. CLOUGH
57. 267 asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the universal feel-
267Mr. LYNN
8.  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland the reason why the editors and publishers of the "Irish Theological Quarterly," who printed an article last October justifying the murder of soldiers and policemen in Ireland, were not prosecuted while those who publish secular newspapers have been prosecuted and punished for much less serious offences; and whether it is now the policy of Dublin Castle that Roman Catholic theologians are not subject to the civil courts?Mr. LYNN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that this statement laying down that the killing of soldiers is no murder appeared as far back as October last?Mr. LYNN
: But can the right hon. Gentleman say why a different policy is pursued towards religious papers from that adopted in the case of secular papers, and will steps be taken to put both classes of paper on the same footing?Mr. LYNN
: Does he not think it amounts to an incitement to murder?Mr. LYNN
: Has the right hon. Gentleman read the article in question?Mr. LYNN
244: Is Judge Bodkin the gentleman who was editor of "United
244Mr. LYNN
76.  asked the Home Secretary if, in formulating the draft Regulations for the sale, proscribing, dispensing, and distribution of cocaine, ecgonine, morphine, heroin, and opium (medicinal), the British Medical Association, which represents and speaks for over 22,000 medical men, were not consulted; if he is aware that the proposed draft Regulations are regarded by medical practitioners throughout the Kingdom as impracticable; that if Clause 13 of the proposed Regulations be strictly carried out it will be impossible for medical men to obtain those drugs from wholesale chemists by train or through the post; and that however urgently needed it will be impossible for a doctor to obtain these drugs by telephone message; and if he is prepared to submit the Regulations for consideration and amendment to a committee composed of representatives of the Home Office, the Ministry of Health, the British Medical Association, and the Pharmaceutical Society as well as of the Veterinary Surgeons, as representing all the interests concerned in dealing with these drugs?Sir THOMAS BRAMSDON
: I have been asked to reply. The continued control of the flour mills is a measure of necessity and not of choice. By virtue of an agreement made when control was assumed it cannot be terminated except by mutual agreement between the millers and the Government before 30th June next. Up to the present it has not proved possible to secure the assent of the millers to termination at any earlier date. The answer to the second part of the question is in the negative.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of FOOD (Sir W. Mitchell-Thomson)
459458pseudo457: I beg to second the Amendment. My hon. Friend has traversed the Amendment so comprehensively that there remains, fortunately, very little for me to say He has censured the Government in no measured terms. He spoke of their unimaginable ineptitude. Those may seem harsh words, but surely it is the extraordinary attitude of the Government that has brought such a censure upon themselves. It is their vacillating and ambiguous policy which is largely responsible for what I call the criminal delay in not coming to some settlement in regard to the amount of the indemnity. My hon. Friend took a retrospective view of the situation. Therefore, I will not go into that, but I would remind the House that the Prime Minister laid it down as a supreme axiom in his electioneering programme that Germany should pay the cost of the War up to the uttermost farthing. That was the reason why he was returned into power with an enormous Coalition majority. That was the reason why he was sent to the Conference table to plead our cause. It is not surprising that some of us grow impatient and that our constituents ask us when we are going to fulfil our pledges.459458pseudo457Colonel C. LOWTHER
: When did I say that? I never mentioned it.Colonel C. LOWTHER
462: I said nothing of the sort, and will you allow me to say so. I asked you as Prime Minister whether the reports in the Press were true that the Paris Conference had fixed
462Colonel LOWTHER
: I never said that. I said that you had stated that Germany could pay—you laid it down as an axiom that she should be made to pay to the utmost of her capacity. I took care not to paraphrase. You may do it, but I do not.Colonel LOWTHER
: I said so. I am within the memory of the House.Colonel LOWTHER
: Surely they would have looted England, and taken every bit of the private wealth there was in the country?Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
474473: I just want to say one or two words in reference to the speech to which we have just listened from my hon. Friend above the Gangway. I quite agree with the principle of this Amendment in reference to indemnities, prosecution of the war criminals, and so on. That was agreed to and put forward as the Government policy at the last election. I am bound to confess, however, that I do not take the slightest notice of these Opposition demands either from the hon. Member for Hackney (Mr. Bottom-ley), or from the hon. Member above the Gangway (Mr. Shaw), for a General Election—on the ground that the Government secured its majority by promises that it has been unable to perform. I remember, as I have stated before in this House, the election of 1906, when the Conservative party were almost destroyed, when it took only a very small portion of the seats above the Gangway to contain the lot of them. For seven days immediately after that election I listened to the first speeches I ever heard in this House. They were all demands on the Government to resign—before it had even begun work—on the ground that it no longer—even in these seven days—represented the views of the people, and that it had secured its majority by fraudulent means and by promising things which it never could perform, and so on. These same demands are now made from above the Gangway by men who were supposed to have swept aside all these pettifogging, old party tactics. They are adopting exactly the same. You are one whit better than the others of other years in reference to this particular point, and when, as I hope, you will some day get a majority and will sit on the opposite side your opponents will be over here on this side, doing exactly the same thing.474473Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: With regard to call offices. If you go to a call office, and wish to call up a London exchange and it happens to be outside the five miles radius, how are arrangements going to be made?Lieut.-Colonel Sir F. HALL
502"Additional revenue should be looked for from judicious development rather than from such heavy increase in charges as may tend to hinder that development. Development admittedly depends to a large extent on small users among whom the service might, by canvassing and advertisement, be made more popular than it is at present.""The limitations imposed on your Committee by the restricted Terms of Reference precluded inquiry into the efficiency of the Telephone Service.""While recognising the importance of placing the telephone service on a sound financial basis, it is highly desirable in the public interests that the 'unlimited user rate' system should be retained on such conditions as are necessary to place it on a sound economic basis; that users should still have the option of adopting this system.""It is regrettable, in view of the present dissatisfaction with the London telephone service as it is at present administered, that the Report of the Department Committee does not encourage the belief that adequate steps are being taken to bring the service to the highest possible state of efficiency."501500via499in vacuo"an inquiry will be instituted into the possibility of effecting economies in the telephone service and of obtaining additional revenue by judicious development and an increase in the number of subscribers, rather than by heavy increases in charges which may tend to hinder that development.""the telephone service will be placed under private enterprise, in view of the necessity for a cheaper and more efficient service,": I beg to move, as an Amendment to the proposed Amendment, to leave out the words
502"Additional revenue should be looked for from judicious development rather than from such heavy increase in charges as may tend to hinder that development. Development admittedly depends to a large extent on small users among whom the service might, by canvassing and advertisement, be made more popular than it is at present.""The limitations imposed on your Committee by the restricted Terms of Reference precluded inquiry into the efficiency of the Telephone Service.""While recognising the importance of placing the telephone service on a sound financial basis, it is highly desirable in the public interests that the 'unlimited user rate' system should be retained on such conditions as are necessary to place it on a sound economic basis; that users should still have the option of adopting this system.""It is regrettable, in view of the present dissatisfaction with the London telephone service as it is at present administered, that the Report of the Department Committee does not encourage the belief that adequate steps are being taken to bring the service to the highest possible state of efficiency."501500via499in vacuo"an inquiry will be instituted into the possibility of effecting economies in the telephone service and of obtaining additional revenue by judicious development and an increase in the number of subscribers, rather than by heavy increases in charges which may tend to hinder that development.""the telephone service will be placed under private enterprise, in view of the necessity for a cheaper and more efficient service,"Lieut.-Colonel W. GUINNESS
503: I beg to second the Amendment to the proposed Amendment.503Rear-Admiral Sir REGINALD HALL
: Yes, an independent Committee to inquire into Government administration of the railways which we say has been extravagant and uneconomical.Sir R. HALL
: Not the charges?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Could it not be specified that they are to inquire into the charges?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: I am quite prepared to withdraw my Amendment if it is made clear that the flat rate is to remain an open question. I feel that it is most necessary that this should be specified, in view of the very strong line which the Attorney-General has taken against it in his speech. I think we are all prepared to agree that the rates should come into force pending the result of the inquiry, but we do wish it to be put upon the Committee as an obligation that they should again look into this matter of the system upon which the charges are made.Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
488487486damnosa hereditas.: I beg to second the Amendment.488487486damnosa hereditas.Captain THORPE
: That is the Government policy.Colonel GREIG
491"It would be, perhaps, an exaggeration to say that the telephone service in London cannot be more inefficient that it is; but, certainly, the telephones in comparison with the service in foreign cities, which are inferior to London in size and importance, are both very dear and very bad. It is comforting to know that the services rendered to the community by the Post Office are, on the whole, admirably carried out, despite the absence of competition, and this circumstance, taken together with the fact that 'hope springs eternal in the human breast,' makes one have some small encouragement.""The patience of the long-suffering telephone users in London has come to an end, and they have formed an association for their own protection.""The Postmaster-General had no power to compel the company to give either a good or a cheap service, and, except in so far as municipalities could exact terms for the Use of the streets, the public were at the mercy of the company. The official inquiry which took place at Glasgow showed that the service actually given by the company was very far from ideal, both being dear and bad."490"The telephone service is not at present of general benefit either in the United Kingdom at large or even in those limited portions of it where exchanges exist.""Is the telephone service now, or is it calculated to become, of general interest?"489: The hon. Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Remer) has truly said that this question has excited
491"It would be, perhaps, an exaggeration to say that the telephone service in London cannot be more inefficient that it is; but, certainly, the telephones in comparison with the service in foreign cities, which are inferior to London in size and importance, are both very dear and very bad. It is comforting to know that the services rendered to the community by the Post Office are, on the whole, admirably carried out, despite the absence of competition, and this circumstance, taken together with the fact that 'hope springs eternal in the human breast,' makes one have some small encouragement.""The patience of the long-suffering telephone users in London has come to an end, and they have formed an association for their own protection.""The Postmaster-General had no power to compel the company to give either a good or a cheap service, and, except in so far as municipalities could exact terms for the Use of the streets, the public were at the mercy of the company. The official inquiry which took place at Glasgow showed that the service actually given by the company was very far from ideal, both being dear and bad."490"The telephone service is not at present of general benefit either in the United Kingdom at large or even in those limited portions of it where exchanges exist.""Is the telephone service now, or is it calculated to become, of general interest?"489Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: It is the easiest.The POSTMASTER-GENERAL (Mr. Illingworth)
495: I have already explained that we are laying out immense sums of money. I will give the hon. Member figures as to what is being done to increase the number of exchanges. In regard to trunks, we are laying 450 miles of ducts, which will contain 696 miles of cables, and in the following year we shall lay 300 miles of ducts containing 742 miles of cable. When these cables are laid there will be an immense relief to the wires. Then, automatic exchanges are going to be arranged for in Dundee, Sheffield, Southampton, and Swansea, and there are various other automatics. Six new exchanges have been opened in the country since the Armistice, there are 24 more exchanges in course of erection, 17 more new exchanges have been arranged
495Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: I did not make itMr. ILLINGWORTH
: That is a small detail. It is very interesting, but I am not at the moment prepared to answer it.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
494493: In 1915 there was an increase in these items, and at the time of the transfer there was an increase of wages of about £150,000 odd. With reference to Hull, the accounts have been very carefully gone into. The average charge per station there is £7 5s., or £3 10s. less than the charge for the Post Office. The depreciation is 16s. l0d. as against £2 6s. 9d. at the Post Office, or a difference of £l 9s. 11d., and there are other charges which are much higher at the Post Office than at Hull. Items of expenditure which the Post Office incurs and Hull does not, include headquarters' expenses. Hull has no research department, and a large portion of the plant is fortunately underground, and in consequence suffers very little storm damage. In a large system like that of London with many exchanges, many calls have to be put through more than one exchange, which means that operat-
494493Mr. ILLINGWORTH
492: Ten per cent. on the gross receipts. The profits in 1911 were £1,592,000. The dividends, including debenture interest, etc., £739,000, amount
492Mr. ILLINGWORTH
466465464: I do not want to quibble about words with the hon. Gentleman. I accept that correction, if he thinks it is a correction. I converted the 20,000,000,000 marks into£l,000,000,000 sterling. That is the only difference. I will accept the 20,000,000,000 marks, which
466465464The PRIME MINISTER
469468467: Let us say they came to England, cleared out the National Gallery, cleared out all the old furniture, and took everything else away. How much would it come to. Has the hon. Member really entered into the question of the valuation of these things? If they cleared out all the gold we have got—I forget how much that is, but it is not a prodigious quantity—if they took all that away, I doubt very much whether we could have paid one year's indemnity out of it. The hon. Member has referred to foreign investments. Our foreign investments are greater than those of Germany, but are they enough to pay for that, and that shows how much the hon. Gentleman knows, because we had to hypothecate enormous sums of our foreign investments during the War to be able to carry on at all, and we had then to borrow
469468467The PRIME MINISTER
: That is £1,000,000,000 sterling.The PRIME MINISTER
463: There is a very great difference. I am perfectly pre-
463The PRIME MINISTER
: You said that she was to pay before the 21st May—1,000,000,000.The PRIME MINISTER
: I waited for the words which are now put down and inserted for the first time—"up to the limit of her capacity."The PRIME MINISTER
461: I congratulate my hon. Friend (Mr. Wise) upon the first serious contribution made to this discussion. I came
461The PRIME MINISTER
: I wish the things which are known to schoolboys were inserted in the speeches of hon. Members. The Mover of the Amendment has not the same excuse, for he has some experience of financial matters. I am going to defend the proposals to which I agreed at the Paris Conference, and I propose to support them at the Conference next week or the following week. The hon. Gentleman who seconded the Amendment said that I made a statement that Germany could pay the whole cost of the War. I never said anything of the kind.The PRIME MINISTER
: That simply means that from whatever source the hon. Gentleman received his information he depends on the multiplication of the number of annuities which are to be paid in the course of 42 years, and he confuses that with an indemnity of £13,000,000,000, which shows a confusion of mind and makes it impossible to examine a problem of this kind. It is a totally different proposition. For instance, take the last 10 or 15 years of that indemnity. Assume that it reaches the maximum figure which we anticipate. Its present value is only about £800,000,000. The present value of that amount is a little over £800,000,000, 30 years hence; that is the value of deferred payment. It is a confusion which persists in the minds of so many people and it is brought here as a serious criticism of the proposals of the Paris Conference.The PRIME MINISTER
: I beg the hon. Member's pardon. He does not know what he mentioned. He said that the Paris decisions were decisions to demand an indemnity of £13,000,000,000.The PRIME MINISTER
: That is the most important thing.The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
: Certainly.The PRIME MINISTER
: An independent Committee!Sir F. BANBURY
: I do. [HON. MEMBKRS: "Hear, hear!"]Sir F. BANBURY
: May I suggest to the Attorney-General that if he added, after the words he has just read, the words "and the method of making charges," that would meet the contention of my hon. and gallant Friend and would, I think, meet the desire of a vast number of people outside the House.Sir F. BANBURY
: May I ask my right hon. Friend one question? Assuming that this Committee does not report for several months, and supposing that it reports against the charges which have been in force during that time, will a rebate on those charges be allowed?Sir F. BANBURY
460: As I was one of the experts who went to Germany in March, 1919, I may take the opportunity of endeavouring to explain the position as it was at that date. When I came back I had the honour of addressing Members of the House of Commons in Committee Room, and as the hon. Member for South Hackney (Mr. Bottomley) was not present on that occasion, I interviewed him privately, and endeavoured to explain the position of Germany at that date. No man is more anxious than I to bleed the German to-day, but it must be done in a proper way, and not to the detriment of this country. The hon. Member for South Hackney has referred to the gold position in Germany. When I was there in March, 1919, there was £94,000,000 of gold in Germany. Of that, £44,000,000 was transferred for the payment of food. At the present moment Germany has £54,000,000 in gold in the Imperial Bank in Germany. My figures in my report were supposed to be reliable. In fact, I was informed they were so useful that, although my report was printed, the
460Mr. WISE
: I had not time to count the gold. The hon. Member has referred to railways. We have, I understand, a first charge on the railways of Germany. What is the good of the railways? Suppose we took over the railways and the forests of Germany, if they paid 100 per cent, dividend, you have only got marks in payment of the dividend. The great difficulty in the matter is the transference of marks into sterling, which is what we want in this country. There are only three ways in which an indemnity can be paid—by the sale of goods, by service, or by gold. I have tried to explain that gold is out of the question. The total amount of gold in the world is only £1,500,000,000 odd, so what is the good of considering gold when discussing large figures? Then there is service. I am sure none of us wants the Germans over here to work for us. Then there is kind. We can get a certain amount of raw material, such as potash, from Germany into this country—[HON. MEMBERS: "Coal!"] We do not want coal in this country. In pre-War days we exported coal to Germany. Germany sent coal to Belgium and Belgium sent coal to France. We do not want German coal here, but we do want such things as potash. That is only a small item. Therefore, the only way, as far as I can see, and as far as any person who has looked into the problem can see, is by the export of goods. Do we want this German export of goods? Are we not likely to have more unemployment if we buy these German goods? If there is one thing more than another that would be to the detriment of our unemployed it would be the purchase of these German goods. There is one other way which I might add to the list, and that is to make the Germans cut down their timber, and we and the Allies to take it from them; but that is only a small item. Hon. Members, if they look into this in a business way, will see that in many respects it may be to the detriment of this country to accept any large sum as an indemnity.Mr. WISE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman tell us what they are going to do in regard to increasing efficiency?Mr. RENWICK
: I will answer that question at once. That would be administratively impossible.Sir G. HEWART
: Yes, I think it will be quite convenient to add those words. They are implicit in what is there already. With regard to the observation of my hon. and gallant Friend, I am sure he will agree that these rates cannot be deferred beyond the named date, namely the first day of April, but that does not prejudice the inquiry with regard to the future, though I should sincerely hope, so far as the flat rate is concerned, that the labours of the Committee which has recently reported will not be merely repeated by the Select Committee which is now to be set up. The question, however, is not prejudiced by the fact that the new rates come into force on the 1st April.Sir G. HEWART
512: I do not want to put in that word, but I cannot appreciate how a Select Committee inquiring into the organisation and administration of the telephone service could for one moment close its mind to the question of charges. I throw out that suggestion, and would ask my hon. and gallant Friend, in these circumstances, to withdraw his Amendment; but of course it is impossible, as I think the House recognises for us to have anything to do with
512Sir G. HEWART
511ex hypothesi510"There is no doubt whatever, as far as my judgment goes, that not only this country, but nearly all other countries, commenced the telephone service on wrong principles. The essential principle in my opinion is payment per message, namely, according to user, but how to get back again to that is the difficulty. I say most frankly to the Committee, that in my humble judgment the whole principle on which these charges have been founded is a wrong principle.""Flat rates simply make it impossible properly to develop the telephone service. The real conflict of interest in this case, therefore, is not between the Telephone Company and business firms, but between the relatively small number of subscribers who have an unlimited business service and the larger number of subscribers whose service is limited."509"'Number engaged.' This is often now the answer received from the Central Call Office for from 10 to 20 minutes and more at times. When you speak to a superviser, you are put on at once, and on inquiry you find that the number said to be engaged has not been called. It is very annoying to business men who have trains to catch and appointments to keep to be treated like this. I hate making complaints, especially about employés, but there is a limit to one's endurance."508: It is obvious to anyone who has followed the course of this Debate throughout the afternoon that the mood of the House has to some extent at any rate undergone a change. The first Amendment which was proposed, and which as I understand is still in a sense before the House, was one regretting the absence from the Gracious Speech of any announcement that the telephone service would be placed under private enterprise in view of the necessity for a cheaper and more efficient service. The point, and the whole point of that Amendment, was that for some reason suggested in the epithets in the later part of the phrase the control of the telephones should now or at the first possible moment be taken out of the hands of the Post Office and placed once more in private hands. I listened with attention to the arguments which were used or suggested in support of that proposition. Although there were many complaints of alleged inefficiency in the existing system, there was not a word said to suggest that the remedy proposed would go any dis-
511ex hypothesi510"There is no doubt whatever, as far as my judgment goes, that not only this country, but nearly all other countries, commenced the telephone service on wrong principles. The essential principle in my opinion is payment per message, namely, according to user, but how to get back again to that is the difficulty. I say most frankly to the Committee, that in my humble judgment the whole principle on which these charges have been founded is a wrong principle.""Flat rates simply make it impossible properly to develop the telephone service. The real conflict of interest in this case, therefore, is not between the Telephone Company and business firms, but between the relatively small number of subscribers who have an unlimited business service and the larger number of subscribers whose service is limited."509"'Number engaged.' This is often now the answer received from the Central Call Office for from 10 to 20 minutes and more at times. When you speak to a superviser, you are put on at once, and on inquiry you find that the number said to be engaged has not been called. It is very annoying to business men who have trains to catch and appointments to keep to be treated like this. I hate making complaints, especially about employés, but there is a limit to one's endurance."508The ATTORNEY-GENERAL (Sir Gordon Hewart)
: That is an ingredient in administration, and is included in the instruction.Sir G. HEWART
: The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Derby asked me yesterday if it were true that the legal representatives of the persons concerned at Mallow had been refused permission to attend the inquiry there. I am informed by the Commander-in-Chief that the legal representative of the Mallow railwaymen concerned or interested in the events following the murder of Mrs. King was not refused admission to the military inquiry on any occasion. Every allegation of ill-treatment made by my right hon. Friend will be carefully inquired into. The Court will re-assemble to-morrow (Saturday) for that purpose, and the railwaymen's legal representative will be asked to attend the inquiry.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
456455bona fides.454"The Powers urge upon the Dutch Government in the most solemn and precise manner the importance attaching to a fresh consideration of the question before her. They desire that it may clearly be understood how grave the situation might become if the Netherlands Government were not in the position to give those assurances which the safety of Europe so imperatively demands."bonne bouche453"The Allied and Associated Powers publicly arraign William II of Hohenzollern, formerly German Emperor, for a supreme offence against international morality and the sanctity of Treaties.": The Peace Treaty says she can pay it in gold marks and in other ways. Let her do it in accordance with the provisions of the Peace Treaty. On the other part of my Amendment the case against the Government is so strong that I marvel that Ministers have come down here to-day to face it. The late Prime Minister declared in this House that the criminals, whoever they were, whatever their rank, should be brought to justice. The Peace Treaty contains a very startling statement. Here is the commencement of it:
456455bona fides.454"The Powers urge upon the Dutch Government in the most solemn and precise manner the importance attaching to a fresh consideration of the question before her. They desire that it may clearly be understood how grave the situation might become if the Netherlands Government were not in the position to give those assurances which the safety of Europe so imperatively demands."bonne bouche453"The Allied and Associated Powers publicly arraign William II of Hohenzollern, formerly German Emperor, for a supreme offence against international morality and the sanctity of Treaties."Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: Was that considered when the Peace Treaty was signed?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
"The War has left upon the nation liabilities which can only be met by heavy taxation."452451"Germany accepts the responsibility of Germany and of her Allies for causing all the loss and damage to which the Allied and Associated Governments and their nationals have been subjected."450"But humbly express our regret that, having regard to the long period which has elapsed since the signing of the Armistice, and to the fact that the country as a whole has so far had no opportunity of expressing its opinion as to the provisions of the various Peace Treaties which have been signed with your late enemies, and of the policy of your Ministers in regard to indemnities, and reparation, and the trial of war criminals, Your Majesty has not announced your intention of dissolving the present Parliament at an early date.": I beg to move, at the end of the Question, to add the words
"The War has left upon the nation liabilities which can only be met by heavy taxation."452451"Germany accepts the responsibility of Germany and of her Allies for causing all the loss and damage to which the Allied and Associated Governments and their nationals have been subjected."450"But humbly express our regret that, having regard to the long period which has elapsed since the signing of the Armistice, and to the fact that the country as a whole has so far had no opportunity of expressing its opinion as to the provisions of the various Peace Treaties which have been signed with your late enemies, and of the policy of your Ministers in regard to indemnities, and reparation, and the trial of war criminals, Your Majesty has not announced your intention of dissolving the present Parliament at an early date."Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: Did you see the gold?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: That is all known to schoolboys.Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: I quoted the words of the Treaty—22,000,000,000 marks.Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: I did not say £1,000,000,000. Your memory is a bit bad to-day.Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: But you go and say words we did not say.Mr. BOTTOMLEY
rose in his place, and claimed to move rose in his place, and claimed to moveMr. BOTTOMLEY
: I very much appreciate the efforts which have been made to elicit the truth.Mr. THOMAS
: I beg to ask the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland whether he has made further inquiry with regard to the incidents at Mallow, and what is the exact position?Mr. J. H. THOMAS
484483482481480"But regret the absence from the Gracious Speech of any announcement that the telephone service will be placed under private enterprise, in view of the necessity for a cheaper and more efficient service.": I beg to move, at the end of the Question, to add the words,
484483482481480"But regret the absence from the Gracious Speech of any announcement that the telephone service will be placed under private enterprise, in view of the necessity for a cheaper and more efficient service."Mr. REMER
485: I am very glad to hear that it is the easiest, because it is the point upon which business men feel most deeply, and the one they feel to be the most difficult for the right hon. Gentleman to explain. If the whole country were to serve as civil servants, logically there would be an end of all responsible Government. We find that, similarly, nationalisation means, as the hon. Member for Plaistow (Mr. W. Thorne) mentioned in an interruption in the Debate on Unemployment, the end of our freedom, the end of everything which British people love, and which they desire to see in their national institutions. If we could only get back to the elementary principle which used to obtain in the public service, when
485Mr. REMER
: In the circumstances, I beg leave to withdraw my Amendment.Mr. REMER
: Have there been large increases of salaries in these years?Mr. R. YOUNG
471470: I am going into the Lobby with the Mover of the Amendment, should he press it to a Division, but for different reasons from those given by him. He has told us how we can perform the impossible. He would send a couple of policemen to Holland to seize the ex-Kaiser, because Holland is a little country, and, generally speaking, he has blown the trumpet. If we began a new war it would no doubt help the circulation of newspapers, and high fees would be paid for lecturing, and things of that kind, but there would be certain disadvantages about the position. Our objection to the Government's policy is not that they have not performed the impossible, but that their present position is a huge game of bluff, and the demands now made can scarcely be realised. The Prime Minister has told us quite definitely now what some people knew during the War, that you could only exact an indemnity really in goods or services, that if you took the goods you were in danger of flooding
471470Mr. THOMAS SHAW
472: Exactly, but it is because the policy of the Government is such a reversal of the statement on which it was elected that we want a General Election. [An HON. MEMBER: "There is no reversal."] No reversal of the statements made at the General Election? The Mover of the Amendment has proved conclusively that the statements made were that we were going to make Germany pay every penny, that we were going to search her pockets, that we were going to hang the Kaiser. These things you said! Have you done them? What is your policy now? Do you now talk about hanging the Kaiser, about making Germany pay every penny, about searching her pockets? You recognise now that you cannot simply do the things you said you could. Our policy here is to try to get you before the country so that you may be able to tell your story again. [An HON. MEMBER: "The same story!"] You would tell the same story? If you do, God help you! If you tell the same story that you did, and what you have failed to do then the electors can be trusted to look after you. No, you will tell a modified story. That is our position. We support this Amendment because we believe the whole policy
472Mr. SHAW
477476la haute politique.475: I wish as a short preliminary to deprecate the custom, or what appears to me to be the growing custom, of springing important subjects of Debate on this House without due notice, whereby the majority of hon. Members are precluded from giving adequate preparation to a subject on which they may feel very strongly, and which they may desire to present to the best of their ability. I was only notified of this Debate this morning, and
477476la haute politique.475Mr. HOWARD GRITTEN
507506505: Apparently there are other Members, too, who wish to cut wages down, but I question if they are in the majority. It cannot be done. We come to the question: What action should the Government take in order to meet these difficulties of the £4,000,000 caused by a rise in price? I maintain the Government are taking the right course in putting up the price to the user of of the telephone. If there is to be a £4,000,000 loss and you have to pay your wages, where is it to come from? There are only two sources, either the user or the taxpayer. Are you going to ask the taxpayer to pay it? [HON. MEMBERS: "Certainly not!"] Then the user must pay it. When you consider your various
507506505Sir E. COATES
504: As Chairman of the Select Committee to which the original reference was passed, I would like to say a few words upon the Debate and in regard to the original Amendment. I certainly consider it is a somewhat wide scheme for anyone to suggest taking over a huge portion of capital of something like £40,000,000 and running the institution concerned as a private institution. I cannot but think that if those who put that matter forward had really looked into the matter, or had studied even the evidence given before us as a Select Committee, they would have realised, I think, in regard to the management of the telephone system, that when it was taken over by the Government in 1911, it was, as the House has been reminded, doing well for its shareholders. What happened when the Government took it over? We are told that the Government does not know how to manage anything. At the same time we are bound to look the facts in the face. These are that after the Government took over the system they not only made
504Major Sir E. COATES
498497496: You did! I can assure the House, as one who has had thirty years experience of newspaper offices, that the last thing in the world we want to do is to have any relations whatever with the Post Office, and for the simple reason that the affairs of the Post Office are so badly managed that newspapers are more and more relying on their own resources, and getting outside the telephone and telegraph systems. Personally, the last thing in the world I want to do is to lift a telephone receiver. The Postmaster-General said, talking with regard to the National Telephone system, that it could not have been more inefficient, but I think we have now reached the lowest stage possible, though probably I am making a mistake in thinking that there are not even deeper depths that the Post Office can reach.
498497496Mr. LYNN
: May I, at the very outset, as a newspaper editor, resent the base insinuation made by the Postmaster-General that this agitation is being carried on by the newspapers, because we object to the flat rate for the use of the telephone. I think no more unfair insinuation could be made.Mr. LYNN
: How much was that?Mr. LYNN
: Is it not a fact that this boat is a very good sea boat, and an extremely comfortable one on which to travel?Captain TERRELL
57.  asked the Minister of Transport whether he is aware that instructions have been given to the West Suffolk county council that, even where satisfactory evidence is produced at the time of taking out a motor licence that a rebate of 25 per cent, is due in respect of pre-1913 engines, the licensing authorities are compelled to collect and remit the whole duty to the Ministry of Transport who will periodically make refunds; and whether, with a view to avoiding irritation to the public and unnecessary work for officials, he will authorise local authorities to collect and remit only the 75 per cent, duty due in the case of pre-1913 motor cars?Lieut.-Colonel W. GUINNESS
62.  asked the Minister of Transport whether he can assign a reason for the persistent and disastrous fall in the capital value of the railway stocks of the United Kingdom since the creation of his Ministry; and what steps does he propose to take to remedy such a state of affairs?Colonel NEWMAN
: Is it not a fact that the railways have had special attention and care given to them in the past by the continuance of their dividends, and does the right hon. Gentleman think it advisable that further special attention should be given to the railways by continuing payment of dividends, irrespective of whether they are earned or not?Sir F. HALL
56.  asked the Minister of Transport whether Seven Hills siding, on the Bury St. Edmunds-Thetford line, which was closed during the War, will now be re-opened for goods traffic, seeing that a signal-box is already in use there and that no extra labour need therefore be involved?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
63.  asked the Minister of Transport whether, in view of the fact that the Committee which has recently reported and advised on the agreements made by the Government with the owners of the railways was nominated by himself as representative of the Government, he will advise the reference of the matters in dispute between the Government and the owners to some impartial tribunal not nominated by either party and consequently able to obtain public confidence in its findings?Colonel NEWMAN
532: Is it not a fact that at every annual meeting of every
532Colonel NEWMAN
: It is a good job you do not.Mr. J. JONES
65.  asked the Minister of Transport whether the provisions of the Thames Conservancy Bill have received the approval of the Ministry; and whether he is aware that in the riverside area there are many objections to certain of its provisions?Captain TERRELL
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that if this Bill becomes law it will kill the up-river sport, and thereby cause a great deal of unemployment?Captain TERRELL
11.  asked the President of the Board of Trade if the financial assistance of the Government to the coalowners still remains in force, notwithstanding the recent decision to give full freedom in regard both to selling price and distribution; and whether there is any guarantee that, as the result of this action, the price of coal to domestic consumers may not be forced up?Sir F. HALL
27.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware that, under the First Schedule of the Agriculture Bill of 1920, as it left this House after the Third Reading, the tenants' rights under the Agricultural Holdings Act, 1908, were extended so as to entitle him to compensation for improvements whether the improvement was or was not required by the terms of his tenancy; whether his attention had been drawn to the fact that an Amendment was inserted in another place limiting the foregoing provisions to tenancies entered upon after 1st January, 1921; and whether the Government propose to introduce an amending Bill at an early date?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say how much it will cost?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: The question is based on a misapprehension. The debt of Belgium to the Allies was not remitted, but the British, French and American Governments have agreed to accept German bonds in lieu of the Belgian obligations.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that a great many bakers do not want this Bill?Sir J. D. REES
: Docs the Government thoroughly appreciate that the more scientific and the more reforming the Meso-potamian administration is the more it will cost the British taxpayer and the more the Mesopotamians will dislike it?Sir J. D. REES
: Will it be possible to discuss this only on the Colonial Office Estimates, and as foreign policy is intimately concerned in this matter what will be the liaison between the Foreign Office and the Colonial Office? Should not it be possible also to discuss it on the Foreign Office Estimates?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: May I ask the Colonial Secretary to reply on the point?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
49.  asked the Prime Minister the estimated cost of the coming conference over Turkey in London; and how it is defrayed by the various countries represented?Captain TERRELL
47. 544 asked the Prime Minister what is the term placed by the Treaty of Versailles upon the occupation by the Allies of the Rhine provinces; whether this provision of the Treaty has been since varied in any respect; and
544Sir F. HALL
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that it is not clearly stated in the Article referred to what is the actual term of the Allied Armies' occupation?Sir F. HALL
: Is it a fact that there is no form of official supervision whatever?Colonel C. LOWTHER
"If pressure is maintained and certain other measures—"607"The Dominions' vote registered in the independence of nationhood.""Unless the Irish question is settled on the great principles which form the basis of this Empire, this Empire must cease to exist.""He was bound to deplore the murders and the policies pursued by the Sinn Feiners and the Republicans, but he was forced with equal vehemence to denounce the murders and wanton destruction of property apparently sanctioned and made effective in Ireland under the guise of law and order through the power held by a few political leaders in the English Government.""The sample of the armed forces that he saw operating in Ireland had not fought honourably. They seemed to have made no distinction between the innocent and guilty. They attacked old and young and destroyed the homes of the innocent as well as those suspected of being guilty."606"My impression is that the spirit of the Irish people is quite unbroken. They are absolutely determined to go on.""They (the Government) have done more than has happened for centuries to increase the numbers who dislike English rule."605prâ facie,604"But we humbly represent to Your Majesty that the policy and practice pursued by the Executive in Ireland have failed to secure the repression of organised outrage, have involved the officers and servants of the Crown in a competition in crime with the offenders against the law, have handed over to the military authorities an unrestricted discretion in the definition and punishment of offences, and have frustrated the prospects of an agreed settlement of the problem of Irish self-government.": I beg to move, at the end of the Question, to add the words,
"If pressure is maintained and certain other measures—"607"The Dominions' vote registered in the independence of nationhood.""Unless the Irish question is settled on the great principles which form the basis of this Empire, this Empire must cease to exist.""He was bound to deplore the murders and the policies pursued by the Sinn Feiners and the Republicans, but he was forced with equal vehemence to denounce the murders and wanton destruction of property apparently sanctioned and made effective in Ireland under the guise of law and order through the power held by a few political leaders in the English Government.""The sample of the armed forces that he saw operating in Ireland had not fought honourably. They seemed to have made no distinction between the innocent and guilty. They attacked old and young and destroyed the homes of the innocent as well as those suspected of being guilty."606"My impression is that the spirit of the Irish people is quite unbroken. They are absolutely determined to go on.""They (the Government) have done more than has happened for centuries to increase the numbers who dislike English rule."605prâ facie,604"But we humbly represent to Your Majesty that the policy and practice pursued by the Executive in Ireland have failed to secure the repression of organised outrage, have involved the officers and servants of the Crown in a competition in crime with the offenders against the law, have handed over to the military authorities an unrestricted discretion in the definition and punishment of offences, and have frustrated the prospects of an agreed settlement of the problem of Irish self-government."Captain WEDGWOOD BENN
: General order?The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: This is a general order. Docs the right hon. Gentleman say that it is not correct?Captain BENN
: Has it been stolen?Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Are not general orders published? Does the right hon. Gentleman suggest that I have stolen it?Captain BENN
: No.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Then what is the purpose of the interjection?Captain BENN
: I do not for a moment reflect on the hon. and gallant Gentleman, but there has been a great number of thefts of orders, and, personally, I do not think that it is becoming to read such orders in the House of Commons.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Why not?Earl WINTERTON
"Aims, powder, and dynamite must be handed over under penalty of being shot.""I am convinced that every one of these persons had condoned the murder"—611primâ facie610"Police fired at in Cavan; police fired at in Meath; commandant of special constabulary fired at in Londonderry; police lorries ruined in Longford; labourer shot dead in Queen's County; police barracks attacked in Antrim and Roscommon; roads trenched in Leitrim and Longford; trenches cut in West Meath, Monaghan and Tip-perary; telephone and telegraph wires cut near Belfast; and Mr. Marmion, son of Waterford J.P., shot dead in Waterford; Thomas Moore, West Meath, wounded; man wounded in Waterford; shop burned in
610"His Majesty's mails have been continual ally raided, trains have been repeatedly held up, and Government offices have been attacked throughout the country.""Worse is yet to come. There is every reason to believe that on a far more extensive scale than yet attempted or carried out by the Sinn Fein extremists is developing. There has been a forerunner of this in the South, where the trenching of roads, the cutting of telegraph, telephone, and destruction of bridges over rail and river have been proceeding on an organised plan."609"The general condition of Ireland, in my opinion, is improving.""I think they are getting very much better.""We have murder by the throat.""The policy of the Government has succeeded and succeeded rapidly. The total number of outrages has rapidly decreased.""If pressure is maintained and certain other measures which they have in view are successful a great improvement in the situation may take place within the next two months."608: I desire to avoid the language of controversy. It would be very easy to turn the Debate very soon into a fierce struggle, but it is far better, if I may respectfully suggest it, that we should examine the facts in as calm an
"Aims, powder, and dynamite must be handed over under penalty of being shot.""I am convinced that every one of these persons had condoned the murder"—611primâ facie610"Police fired at in Cavan; police fired at in Meath; commandant of special constabulary fired at in Londonderry; police lorries ruined in Longford; labourer shot dead in Queen's County; police barracks attacked in Antrim and Roscommon; roads trenched in Leitrim and Longford; trenches cut in West Meath, Monaghan and Tip-perary; telephone and telegraph wires cut near Belfast; and Mr. Marmion, son of Waterford J.P., shot dead in Waterford; Thomas Moore, West Meath, wounded; man wounded in Waterford; shop burned in
610"His Majesty's mails have been continual ally raided, trains have been repeatedly held up, and Government offices have been attacked throughout the country.""Worse is yet to come. There is every reason to believe that on a far more extensive scale than yet attempted or carried out by the Sinn Fein extremists is developing. There has been a forerunner of this in the South, where the trenching of roads, the cutting of telegraph, telephone, and destruction of bridges over rail and river have been proceeding on an organised plan."609"The general condition of Ireland, in my opinion, is improving.""I think they are getting very much better.""We have murder by the throat.""The policy of the Government has succeeded and succeeded rapidly. The total number of outrages has rapidly decreased.""If pressure is maintained and certain other measures which they have in view are successful a great improvement in the situation may take place within the next two months."608Captain BENN
: "Arms, powder and dynamite must be handed over." That is the policy of the right hon. Gentleman.Captain BENN
: I have explained that was under the Proclamation setting up martial law in the province of Munster; that on a certain date—after martial law had been proclaimed—all those who illegally held arms and explosives and those who harboured notorious murderers would be liable to the capital penalty—[HON. MEMBERS: "Hear, hear!"]—after trial by court-martial.Sir H. GREENWOOD
"Hostage-taking is opposed both to the rules of war and to every principle of justice and humanity.""Severe punishment can be inflicted, but the death penalty cannot be inflicted without some special legislation.": My contention is that it is not in the power of the right hon. Gentleman to define a new capital offence and execute people without the assent of this House. He said in the House: "I am pressed every day to ask the House to pass a law to enable the police or the military to shoot on arrest anyone found with arms in his possession." The Prime Minister said:
"Hostage-taking is opposed both to the rules of war and to every principle of justice and humanity.""Severe punishment can be inflicted, but the death penalty cannot be inflicted without some special legislation."Captain BENN
: Colonel Moore's son was killed in the late War.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
"An old woman named Lynch proved that during the course of this raid, just before the burning of her house, her husband, an old man of 75, whilst standing opposite her at their own doorway, was shot dead by a soldier in uniform distant about ten yards.""A young man named Connole was seized in the street by a party of men under the command of an officer. His wife, who was with him, pleaded on her knees with the officer for the life of her husband, but he was taken away a short distance and shot, and his chaired remains were found next morning in his own house, which had been burned."619"Nothing of a compromising character was found on him, he had no weapons and
619"To tolerate a compaign of murder is to abdicate the first principle of civilised government."618"The auxiliary policemen were trying to effect the arrest of two men when Canon Magner got between the police and the men and was unfortunately shot.""There were in all 139 cakes in which it was proved that the criminal injuries were committed by the armed forces of the Government, and only in five cases already mentioned were any witnesses examined to justify, deny or explain. In no case was there any evidence to suggest that the victims had been guilty of any offence.""Military officers attended in court and proved that the houses, etc., had been burned by the military. … There was no evidence or suggestion that any of the occupants of the houses or the owners of the property had been guilty of any offence."617"It is particularly forbidden to destroy or seize enemy property unless such destruction or seizure be imperatively demanded by the necessities of war.""they were considered to be occupied or owned by notorious Sinn Feiners.""If wrongs have been done there is a legitimate way of calling attention to them. and there is a criminal way.… It is quite impossible for you to suggest that as an excuse for what you have done.""The property of local authorities, as well as that of institutions dedicated to public worship, charity, education and to science and art, even when State property shall be treated as private property. Any seizure or destruction of or wilful damage to institutions of this character is forbidden and shall be made the subject of legal proceedings.""The inhabitants of the town made a treacherous surprise attack upon our troops. With my consent the general officer commanding has burned the whole neighbourhood."616"General Rycroft was informed that the claim was to be considered by the County Court Judge, and the military authorities were asked to give evidence. They did not summon any witnesses. They did not employ counsel to cross-examine the Society's witnesses.""I am firmly convinced from inquiries made that the men who are suffering in Ireland are the men engaged in a murderous conspiracy.""The people fled in tenor to the field. Men, women, and children spent the night out of doors. In addition to two civilians who were killed, two women died from the effects of the exposure, two women had miscarriages as a result of the night's events, and four babies suffering from measles were taken out into the fields, and died as a consequence.""No collective penalty, pecuniary or otherwise, shall be inflicted upon the population on account of acts of individuals for which it cannot be regarded as collectively responsible."615"One of the party went upstairs and sat on the bed and pointed a revolver at the daughter, who was ill in bed, and demanded to know the whereabouts of her brothers. She could not tell him. Downstairs the man roughly handled the old widow.…
615"The Judge of the Irish High Court was, it seems, addressed in these words: 'Come down, you Irish bastard, put up your hands.'""The men in charge told me to go down on my knees. I did not. They made him kneel and spit three times on the portrait of De Valera. Then I had to say three times, 'God bless the R.I.C"614"The men who arrested me asked mo if I was the man employed at the City Hall? I
614"I saw a boy in the infirmary of a military prison who had been arrested 10 days before. There was no charge against him. His face was covered with deep scars, the back of his head was bandaged. He told me he had been beaten until he was unconscious. He was to be released as soon as he was fit. The boy was a medical student, 18 years of ago.""I was compelled at rifle point to kneel in the mud, and on threat of death to take an oath that I was not a Sinn Feiner. I was shown a framed photograph of De Valera by one of the policemen, and was ordered to spit on it three times or to be shot. I was struck and kicked. I was ordered to get up and clear out. I did so, but was followed by about 12 policemen, who again set on me and very severely beat me with rifles, fists and feet. I was knocked to the ground and kicked while there. Then one man said: 'Let him go, he has had enough,' but when I got up this man felled me again.""They (the police) accused me of teaching Sinn Feiners the use of machine guns. This I at once denied, and said: 'You should arrest me and put me on trial if you make such a serious charge against me.' One of the police—""True strategy consists in hitting your enemy and hitting him hard. Above all you must inflict on the inhabitants of invaded towns the maximum of suffering so that they may become sick of the struggle and bring pressure to bear upon the rebel government to discontinue it."613: I come to the next charge against the right hon. Gentle-
"An old woman named Lynch proved that during the course of this raid, just before the burning of her house, her husband, an old man of 75, whilst standing opposite her at their own doorway, was shot dead by a soldier in uniform distant about ten yards.""A young man named Connole was seized in the street by a party of men under the command of an officer. His wife, who was with him, pleaded on her knees with the officer for the life of her husband, but he was taken away a short distance and shot, and his chaired remains were found next morning in his own house, which had been burned."619"Nothing of a compromising character was found on him, he had no weapons and
619"To tolerate a compaign of murder is to abdicate the first principle of civilised government."618"The auxiliary policemen were trying to effect the arrest of two men when Canon Magner got between the police and the men and was unfortunately shot.""There were in all 139 cakes in which it was proved that the criminal injuries were committed by the armed forces of the Government, and only in five cases already mentioned were any witnesses examined to justify, deny or explain. In no case was there any evidence to suggest that the victims had been guilty of any offence.""Military officers attended in court and proved that the houses, etc., had been burned by the military. … There was no evidence or suggestion that any of the occupants of the houses or the owners of the property had been guilty of any offence."617"It is particularly forbidden to destroy or seize enemy property unless such destruction or seizure be imperatively demanded by the necessities of war.""they were considered to be occupied or owned by notorious Sinn Feiners.""If wrongs have been done there is a legitimate way of calling attention to them. and there is a criminal way.… It is quite impossible for you to suggest that as an excuse for what you have done.""The property of local authorities, as well as that of institutions dedicated to public worship, charity, education and to science and art, even when State property shall be treated as private property. Any seizure or destruction of or wilful damage to institutions of this character is forbidden and shall be made the subject of legal proceedings.""The inhabitants of the town made a treacherous surprise attack upon our troops. With my consent the general officer commanding has burned the whole neighbourhood."616"General Rycroft was informed that the claim was to be considered by the County Court Judge, and the military authorities were asked to give evidence. They did not summon any witnesses. They did not employ counsel to cross-examine the Society's witnesses.""I am firmly convinced from inquiries made that the men who are suffering in Ireland are the men engaged in a murderous conspiracy.""The people fled in tenor to the field. Men, women, and children spent the night out of doors. In addition to two civilians who were killed, two women died from the effects of the exposure, two women had miscarriages as a result of the night's events, and four babies suffering from measles were taken out into the fields, and died as a consequence.""No collective penalty, pecuniary or otherwise, shall be inflicted upon the population on account of acts of individuals for which it cannot be regarded as collectively responsible."615"One of the party went upstairs and sat on the bed and pointed a revolver at the daughter, who was ill in bed, and demanded to know the whereabouts of her brothers. She could not tell him. Downstairs the man roughly handled the old widow.…
615"The Judge of the Irish High Court was, it seems, addressed in these words: 'Come down, you Irish bastard, put up your hands.'""The men in charge told me to go down on my knees. I did not. They made him kneel and spit three times on the portrait of De Valera. Then I had to say three times, 'God bless the R.I.C"614"The men who arrested me asked mo if I was the man employed at the City Hall? I
614"I saw a boy in the infirmary of a military prison who had been arrested 10 days before. There was no charge against him. His face was covered with deep scars, the back of his head was bandaged. He told me he had been beaten until he was unconscious. He was to be released as soon as he was fit. The boy was a medical student, 18 years of ago.""I was compelled at rifle point to kneel in the mud, and on threat of death to take an oath that I was not a Sinn Feiner. I was shown a framed photograph of De Valera by one of the policemen, and was ordered to spit on it three times or to be shot. I was struck and kicked. I was ordered to get up and clear out. I did so, but was followed by about 12 policemen, who again set on me and very severely beat me with rifles, fists and feet. I was knocked to the ground and kicked while there. Then one man said: 'Let him go, he has had enough,' but when I got up this man felled me again.""They (the police) accused me of teaching Sinn Feiners the use of machine guns. This I at once denied, and said: 'You should arrest me and put me on trial if you make such a serious charge against me.' One of the police—""True strategy consists in hitting your enemy and hitting him hard. Above all you must inflict on the inhabitants of invaded towns the maximum of suffering so that they may become sick of the struggle and bring pressure to bear upon the rebel government to discontinue it."613Captain BENN
: I beg to second the Amendment.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
621620: The hon. and gallant Gentleman, in the course of his speech, has produced a catalogue which, if the House had not already been informed of
621620Mr. INSKIP
: He has done so.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
622: But it has proved more like smoking flax; not that the right hon. Gentleman is lacking in eloquence, earnestness, or material, but because the public instinct has appreciated the facts and has realised the false emphasis in the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman. It has realised that there is something else to be said before denouncing those who imperfectly, and wrongly, perhaps, are attempting to restore law and order in Ireland. Public instinct holds that Sinn Fein must come before this House or the nation with clean hands, and before the Irish Republican army can demand the treatment which the hon. and gallant Gentleman suggests, they must accept the
622Mr. INSKIP
: That is a German defence.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
624623: The fact is but for the crimes committed by Sinn Fein the crimes said to have been committed by the Black and Tans would not have been possible. The hon. and gallant Gentleman started his catalogue with the murder of a policeman in 1918. Why did he not start it in 1916, when first the determination was come to to put deliberate murder upon the programme of the Sinn Fein party? He cannot treat the 1916 rebellion as if it were an isolated incident from the spirit of which the Irish nation departed, and if what Lady Sykes states in the Times to-day is correct, then the acts of
624623Mr. INSKIP
: I am sure we all welcome, back to the House of Commons the hon. and gallant Member who moved this Motion. I congratulate him, and I suppose I should appreciate his semi-episcopal benediction upon my head. I shall try to answer him in exactly the same tone and temper. I shall then deal with the Irish situation as it is, and not take up isolated instances of the most troublesome kind in Irish history. He quotes various people who went to Ireland under the auspices of the Peace Committee. I cannot accept their information as informative let alone conclusive. He quotes the Bishop of Cork. I wish he would emphasise the merits of the situation with the same strenuous emphasis as the Bishop of Cork does. He is a belated supporter of the Irish Government in putting down murder. I give him credit for being the most courageous Bishop in the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland. This is what he said:Sir H. GREENWOOD
: And the George Cabinet, too.Mr. DEVLIN
"The Irish in effect having captured hundreds of constables and soldiers (including an English general) have always treated them humanely and courteously, and after a little time have released them, whereas the English Government, for its part, when it captures Irish rebels, loses no time in hanging them.": Let me read what this is, because those who allege this country is suffering abroad ought to do something, I think, different to what this is.
"The Irish in effect having captured hundreds of constables and soldiers (including an English general) have always treated them humanely and courteously, and after a little time have released them, whereas the English Government, for its part, when it captures Irish rebels, loses no time in hanging them."Sir H. GREENWOOD
: For nothing!Mr. DEVLIN
"Six British officers have gone to glory to-day. Ono of them squealed like a rat.": This is after the Macroom massacre, where 16 auxiliaries were done to death and hacked with axes after death. This is after the kidnapping of six British officers in Cork. They have never been found, and to that kidnapping Father Dominic, an Irish monk, referred in these words:
"Six British officers have gone to glory to-day. Ono of them squealed like a rat."Sir H. GREENWOOD
: They always did hate their own country. [An HON. MEMBER: "Another patriot!"]Mr. HOWARD GRITTEN
627: On the question of propaganda also I want to draw attention to a letter issued by De Valera, who is the President in hiding of what is called the Irish Republic, and I am told he
627Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I did not get one!Mr. DEVLIN
: And I did not get one either.Captain REDMOND
: I am sure there are no bitterer opponents of Sinn Fein in Ireland or in this House than the Nationalist Members or the Nationalist party. That document reiterates the usual accusations against the Government. But there is one accusation I must publicly draw the House's attention to. It deals with the allegation that our soldiers and policemen in Ireland have been guilty of outrages on women. That is the most serious charge that can be laid at the door of any white man. We have over 60,000 armed men in Ireland, and there has never been one bit of evidence produced to show that there has been any outrage of this kind. The House will understand that if there could be a case got up against the soldiers or policemen it would be gladly produced with all its loathsome details to harm this Government and besmirch the name of these gallant men who are the representatives of this House in trying to put down the greatest conspiracy this country has been faced with for many years. Now as to the details which the hon. and gallant Gentleman produced. I cannot answer offhand the various cases. No one would expect me. He asked me will I make inquiry.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Did not the right hon. Gentleman receive a verbatim report of all the evidence given before Judge Bodkin? Judge Budkin sent him a full verbatim account of the proceedings weeks ago. Has the right hon. Gentleman examined that? Why not?Captain W. BENN
628: I am dealing with Judge Bodkin under another heading. I am dealing with cases not referred to in the Bodkin Report. The hon. and gallant Gentleman has this advantage over me that he is the intimate friend of Mr. and Mrs. Erskine Childers who are Sinn Feiners and whose house is the rendezvous and, with that of another person, the clearing place for correspondence between Michael Collins and Mulcahy, the heads of the Irish Republican party, and
628Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The right hon. Gentleman has been good enough to say that I am an intimate friend of Mr. Childers. I am a friend of Mr. Childers. I took on work he was doing during the War as an airman, but I have not been in Dublin or heard from Mr. Childers for many months. I simply say that I repudiate the inference the right hon. Gentleman has made.Captain BENN
629: I said that the hon. and gallant Gentleman enjoyed the intimate friendship of Mr. Erskine Childers. My second point was that Mr. Childers' house was that of an extreme Sinn Fein Republican, and I still say that it is a clearing-house for giving information. I feel very strongly that information coming from extreme Sinn Fein Republicans in Ireland ought not to be taken without regard to what the circumstances are. I am sorry if I said a word to reflect upon the hon and gallant Gentleman who moved this Motion. I can assure him that, while he can say what he likes about me, I shall continue to pay him the utmost respect because of his services in the late War. There is one case of which I can speak from personal knowledge. The hon and gallant Gentleman quoted a statement by Mr. Stephen Gwynn that a High Court judge was dragged down from a tramear, and complained of the vulgar language used by some policemen. I happen to know the judge. He told the story himself with great glee, and here it is. Mr. Justice Wylie, the last, and one of the best, judges appointed in Ireland, was riding on a tramear to a hunting meet. When he got to the end of his ride, there were some policemen on duty, and they did use a word which, I trust, no hon. Member of thin House will ever use, in calling him down from the tram. They did him no harm. He treated it as a joke, and he would be the man most surprised to find it quoted in this House and in the "Observer" as an example of the decadence of the Irish police. With reference to the case of James Murphy, if what the hon. and gallant Gentleman has quoted with regard to that and other cases is true, they are abominable cases, I agree, and I shall hope to show to the House the strong steps that have been taken in reference to the discipline of the
629Sir H. GREENWOOD
: You were invited to be represented.Mr. DEVLIN
: I do not take my orders from a County Court judge in County Clare; I take my orders from this House.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: From the Black and Tans.Mr. DEVLIN
: The Crown has no status before a County Court judge. His business is to assess the damage done. It is not his business publicly to issue statements of a partisan character reflecting on the conduct of the administration. At any rate, his Honour has put to me a question which is a perfectly proper one. Having regard to the damage done in the whole of Clare over a period of years, the ratepayers will find it an intolerable burden to bear the expense of compensation, and he asks me to consider the question of recommending to the House the payment of the damages out of the National Exchequer. I cannot recommend the House to do that. All these damages are the result of a state of war extending over a series of years. I have always said from this desk that I shall take into sympathetic consideration certain cases in Ireland that I think ought to be paid for, with the permission of the House, out of national funds. His Honour, the County Court judge—and he is emulated by the hon. and gallant Gentleman who has just spoken—did not say in his report anything about the 28 murders that have taken place in the County of Clare. He did not say anything about what preceded the burning of the three villages.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: He denounced murder previously.Mr. DEVLIN
630: I dealt with the question myself in the House months ago. I admitted the burning of these villages by forces of the Crown, but the House has forgotten the cause. One day
630Sir H. GREENWOOD
: What about the statements of the other judges?Mr. DEVLIN
: The hon. and gallant Gentleman spoke as if Ireland had been normal until I went there.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: It never was worse.Mr. DEVLIN
632631: He did not deal with any of those prime causes from which have come all the consequences from which we are now suffering in Ireland. I hope the House will give me its attention while I deal briefly with some of them. First of all, let me deal with that fraud which is a favourite item of propaganda, that Ireland is in economic ruins Since 1914, and largely because of the War, Ireland has enjoyed a period of great prosperity, and that prosperity reached its zenith in the year 1920. The statistics of Ireland show its unexampled prosperity, in spite of the Sinn Fein conspiracy to set up an independent Republic by a policy of intimidation, arson and assassination. This conspiracy—and this is the explanation of the prosperity in spite of the orgy of bloodshed—this conspiracy is carried on by young men who are a minority, and are not of the business, industrial or productive classes of
632631Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The longer you stay the more it will spread.Lord H. CAVENDISH -BENTINCK
: The authorities and the police here in England show greater capacitly in dealing with it than the Irish police and soldiers. Here is a memorandum captured on Saturday last at the headquarters of the Sinn Fein Irish Republican Army. It deals with an appropriation to the Irish Republican Army of £30,000—most of which money, by the way, comes from Irish-American sympathisers with this campaign that is going on now.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Was that document stolen?Mr. DEVLIN
634633"Large scale operations are of paramount importance. I fear, however, that the volunteers abroad, owing to their lack of training, cannot be relied on absolutely for operations on a large scale with certainty of success. Liverpool gives the greatest hope. Manchester is hopeless. London will do something on a small scale. I have no knowledge of Glasgow, but from the reports which have been received it is clear that they have no military instinct and apparently no training. There are possibilities of a couple of large companies in Newcastle-on-Tyne. Minor operations could well be carried on in Liverpool, London, and possibly, Glasgow and Newcastle. The following operations are some which can be carried out, but obviously will require a considerable amount of preparation. Destruction of large ships by fire, the destruction of buildings by fire, the destruction of blast furnaces, possibly the destruction of the coal mines of the district, and the destruction of the telegraph and tele-
633: No, it was simply seized. The gentleman who owned the document left just before the police arrived. Under the head of "Operations abroad," this is what is said. I want the House to remember that this is in keeping with the whole policy of Sinn Fein—
634633"Large scale operations are of paramount importance. I fear, however, that the volunteers abroad, owing to their lack of training, cannot be relied on absolutely for operations on a large scale with certainty of success. Liverpool gives the greatest hope. Manchester is hopeless. London will do something on a small scale. I have no knowledge of Glasgow, but from the reports which have been received it is clear that they have no military instinct and apparently no training. There are possibilities of a couple of large companies in Newcastle-on-Tyne. Minor operations could well be carried on in Liverpool, London, and possibly, Glasgow and Newcastle. The following operations are some which can be carried out, but obviously will require a considerable amount of preparation. Destruction of large ships by fire, the destruction of buildings by fire, the destruction of blast furnaces, possibly the destruction of the coal mines of the district, and the destruction of the telegraph and tele-
633Sir H. GREENWOOD
: And the murder of two men.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
635: And the murder of two men. But it was the burning of Balbriggan more than the murder of the two men, I am afraid, that startled the House, although I never could understand how the burning of a house or a town was comparable to the irrevocable damage of the destruction of human life. I feel as keenly on this question as anyone in the House. It comes to me every day of my life, through widows and orphans of soldiers and policemen as well as of others. There is not a single thing that is going on in Ireland to-day that is incurable, except this taking of human life. But the responsibility for the commencement of this orgy of murder is not upon any Government on these Benches. It is not upon soldiers or police. It is upon these Sinn Fein conspirators, following on the rebellion of 1916, who have never ceased, and are not ceasing now, to murder. They are worse, if anything. One reason why there are more
635Sir H. GREENWOOD
: What good do they do?Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
: That is a matter of opinion. In my opinion they are effective, and they are carried out always—Sir H. GREENWOOD
: They are the measure of your failure.Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
636: With regard to the lives of innocent people.636Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Is a trained lawyer in a court-martial in danger?Lord H. CECIL
: Yes.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Why is not his life as valuable as the life of any other lawyer?Lord H. CECIL
: I am almost sorry the Noble Lord has raised that question, but I will answer it. The way we save that trained lawyer is to put him into khaki and let him live in barracks. Every man must be armed in Ireland who is in khaki. Has the House forgotten 21st November, when 14 officers, many of them court-martial officers, were massacred in cold blood in their beds, in their bath or at breakfast at nine o'clock?Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Before their wives.Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
637: Before their wives. They were men carrying on the administration of justice. Only two of them were combatant officers. The rest were engaged in the carrying on of justice. I give that case of the difficulty in carrying on administration. Let me take another difficulty. It is not only the judges. No ordinary court could carry on the criminal law in Ireland, because the officials would be murdered. Let us come to the case of evidence. Evidence against prisoners has always been the greatest difficulty of every Irish Secretary. Let me give some cases which have occurred in the last few days. Two Protestant farmers in Cork, one 65 and the other 55 years of age, gave evidence at a military court about men collecting for Sinn Fein armies in the district. What happened? They were murdered before their families. We had a man on charge for his life for the murder of one of these officers in November. The principal witness was a major in the Army. An attempt was made to assassinate him the day before the trial. He was shot through the chest and arm, and the trial has had to be postponed until he gets better. In Belfast a man was on a charge for murder of a policeman. Royal Irish Constabulary went up to give evidence. They were followed after they had retired to their rooms by five assassins. Two of them were murdered in their sleep, and I am afraid the third will die from his wounds.
637Sir H. GREENWOOD
: They do not get it.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: They do not get it? They get encouragement. When you have a reign of terror caused by assassins in a country like Ireland there are only two sides, one for the assassin and one against him. Take the case of the ex-service men in Ireland, who represent some of the finest Irishmen and some of finest Irish families. Not one of them were conscripts. An ex-service man is suspected as a loyalist. The majority of murders of civilians in Ireland has been the murders of ex-service men. The condition of some of these men is pitiful. Why is it? Because the local authorities refuse to accept grants of English money for the employment of these men, on the ground that they ought not to submit to the audit imposed by a statute passed by this House. I hope that when the question of unemployment comes before this House the plight of these gallant men, who are being murdered week after week in Ireland because they are ex-service menSir H. GREENWOOD
rose roseLord H. CAVENDISH - BENTINCK
: I offer the Noble Lord a position on any court-martial hSir H. GREENWOOD
: If the right hon. Gentleman will march out of Ireland I will go there. We must geLord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
: You are to go there not as Chief Secretary but as a court martial officer.Sir W. DAVISON
: I understand from the Noble Lord that the Chief Secretary is to march out and he is to march in, and all will be well in Ireland. If I thought that, I would gladly agree. Let me now come to the administration by another arm of the law, namely, the police, and I ask the House carefully to listen to this. The Royal Irish Constabulary is recruited from Ireland and from Great Britain almost entirely from ex-service men. Every recruit has to have the best character possible in his Army discharge. The fullest inquiry is made about him. That applies also to the ex-officers who form the Auxiliary Division in Ireland. I want the House to bear with me while I give them the type of men who are abused because they belong to the Royal Irish Constabularly or the Auxiliary Division.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: No.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
"Before my husband died he asked me to bring my boys to you, his champion."639: Yes. There called upon me at the Chief Secretary's Lodge recently Mrs. O'Sullivan, wife of District Inspector O'Sullivan. District Inspector O'Sullivan was walking from the barracks to his house about a month ago, holding his little boy of four by the hand, when he was murdered on the way by assassins. That man had defended Kil-mallock Barracks with twelve comrades last year against 500 Irish Republicans. They fought from one a.m. till seven o'clock. Two of the men were killed, burnt in the burning building, and all the other were wounded. They shot their last cartridge, fixed bayonets and charged the brutal mob. O'Sullivan was promoted on the spot and had been promoted since. Because of his heroism, which ought to have moved every Irishman who had a spark of patriotism in him, he was a marked man. He knew he was a marked man, but he refused to be transferred from the danger zone. His widow
"Before my husband died he asked me to bring my boys to you, his champion."639Sir H. GREENWOOD
: They are not isolated.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
"After an interlude of barbarism which recalls the worst achievements both of the ancient and the modern Hun."640: What is the use of bringing isolated cases of murder to this House, without any revelation of the gallantry of the men who are standing between this House and chaos in Ireland, and without any reference to the sacrifices of these men and their widows and children, who are now numbered in many hundreds. Let me give a case of Auxiliary Division men. At Longford a couple of military lorries of Auxiliary men, every one wearing decorations won in the War, were ambushed. A mine was exploded under the lorries, making a crater six feet by four. Four men were killed, six seriously wounded, three wounded, and five others unwounded. District - Inspector Craven, who had charge, was hit in the leg. He fell down but got up again. He refused to take cover, and walked up and down the road encouraging the others and controlling the fire until he was killed. Who was District-Inspector Craven? He was a Lieutenant-Commander in the War. He had charge of a mine-sweeper in the Irish Sea, and saved an American transport from being sunk by submarine, thereby saving the lives of 600 American soldiers. He has been murdered, by men paid by Irish-American money, in the defence not
"After an interlude of barbarism which recalls the worst achievements both of the ancient and the modern Hun."640Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Some of them!Lieut. Commander KENWORTHY
641: There is the reference, and it is a most unworthy reference. It makes my task more difficult when an ex-Prime Minister, who is more than a personality, who is an institution in the history and government of this country, makes remarks that can be implied to be a reflection upon the men who are risking their lives every day in Ireland. Now as to the question of the discipline. I am glad to say the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Benn) has relieved my mind, because he says there is no fault to find with the British Army in Ireland as to discipline. I am delighted to hear it. I am delighted to hear there is no criticism of that force in this House, although, let it be remembered, the publication issued by Mr. de Valera accuses them of every known crime in the criminal calendar. The discipline of this force is more severe than the discipline of any other police force in the world. Men are dismissed at once if they are suspected of
641Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Could the Cabinet?Mr. DEVLIN
: Could any body of men stand that test? I notice that the Archbishop of Canterbury, the head of my Church—Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I never knew what you were before.Mr. DEVLIN
"Subalterns who have passed through the Royal Military College or the Royal Military Academy, 55 per cent. Subalterns whose commissions are direct from the ranks, 44 per cent."642"The majority of the junior officers in the Army are generally ignorant of their professional duties. Many in the infantry
642laughter: I am a very sincere member of the Church of England, not a political member or a talking member. I wonder if His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury, speaking in the House of Lords to-morrow, could survey his black army of clergymen—["Subalterns who have passed through the Royal Military College or the Royal Military Academy, 55 per cent. Subalterns whose commissions are direct from the ranks, 44 per cent."642"The majority of the junior officers in the Army are generally ignorant of their professional duties. Many in the infantry
642laughterSir H. GREENWOOD
: You would not do that.Mr. RAFFAN
: No, I never sneered at any man in my life. I think it is the finest thing in the world to have democratised the commissioned ranks of the British Army, but the amazing thing is, now that it is done, these men, selected from every field in the late war on grounds of merit and merit only, should be sneered at as inefficient by this precious Labour Commission which went to Ireland to hurt the Government, and wound by insulting the class from which so many of them come. I will explode another bubble in that report of bubbles.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: How could you explode a bubble? We are talking about bombs, not bubbles.Mr. DEVLIN
643"These goggles are issued to Royal Engineers, infantry and other dismounted units for practising night work by day. They consist of a cloth mask with two light and two dark films. A depôt gets sixteen pairs. Hence the number sent to the depôt of the Royal Irish Fusiliers. They are issued to all infantry units, quite irrespective of where they are stationed. They were originally introduced in 1917.": I say bubbles. The report suggests that masks were issued to the forces of the Crown to enable them to disguise themselves and go on errands of pillage and murder. They said they saw a mask. They did, and I will give the military description of the mask they saw.
643"These goggles are issued to Royal Engineers, infantry and other dismounted units for practising night work by day. They consist of a cloth mask with two light and two dark films. A depôt gets sixteen pairs. Hence the number sent to the depôt of the Royal Irish Fusiliers. They are issued to all infantry units, quite irrespective of where they are stationed. They were originally introduced in 1917."Sir H. GREENWOOD
: That is not true. There was no place we went to where we did not see the head of the Army in that particular area.Mr. LAWSON
: Need I press the point? We were prepared to help them. I am dealing with them rather harshly, with regret, because they say several nice things about me.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: We are going to say some more before we finish.Mr. LAWSON
: And the policy of reprisals may arise again. My point about that Labour Report is this. It is an important point. That Report, published in England, is innocuous because nobody believes it—it is part of a political campaign—but that Report is sent abroad. To that extent it besmirches the fair name of this country and holds up not myself, because I am quite immune now— every Irish Secretary becomes immune to criticism from certain quarters—but it holds up to obloquy British soldiers and Irish police to the outside world.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Why do you not refute it? Publish your own Report.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
645644: I was appointed Chief Secretary for Ireland in April, 1920. I had the pleasure of contesting what I may call a successful by-election in the month of April. I went to Ireland in May. For two months and a little more there was a conciliation period in Ireland. I want the House to remember that great changes were made in the personnel of the Government of Ireland. A number of English civil servants, selected on grounds of merit, were taken to Ireland to assist the administration and right splendidly have they borne their duties. The General
645644Sir H. GREENWOOD
: What about 1914?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: No man was murdered in 1914.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, there was. I will give you the name of one of them.Mr. DEVLIN
: The House will remember how unarmed soldiers were massacred in the Rebellion of 1916. Martial law was set up for the whole of Ireland. A few conspirators were shot, and hundreds were imprisoned and soon released, and returned to Ireland and continued the fight for an independent Ireland and to help the Germans to defeat the allies of America. The late Prime Minister's treatment of the rebels encouraged every enemy in Ireland just as his attitude encourages them to-day. He does not intend it, I know, but because of his attitude every assassin in Ireland looks upon him as a friend, and every law-abiding citizen in Ireland looks upon his speeches with despair. [HON. MEMBERS: "How do you know?" "Disgraceful!"] He abuses my administration, which has lasted for 10 months. What about his Government, which lasted eight years?Sir H. GREENWOOD
: You supported it.Mr. DEVLIN
: You had not got a job then.Dr. MURRAY
647646: I am now fighting this conspiracy, which he allowed to grow up and now encourages to go on. To-day the police are no longer prisoners in their own barracks. They are no longer resigning. Every county in Ireland is sending recruits to the Royal Irish Constabulary. They are armed and equipped and they are re-occupying territory in the South and West that was evacuated. Casualties will occur because the Forces of the Crown
647646Sir H. GREENWOOD
: It will not.Mr. DEVLIN
: That is my view.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I shall be here.Mr. DEVLIN
: I hope the hon. Member will become Prime Minister of United Ireland some day.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: That ends my career.Mr. DEVLIN
648: There will be elections in Ireland within two months from now. The Northern Parliament will be elected and will be opened in June, and it is hoped that all the Prime Ministers of the Dominions will be able to welcome in Ulster a new and vigorous partner into the Commonwealth. I certainly hope that the same procedure will take place in Dublin in reference to the Southern Parliament. At any rate the electors of the Southern Parliament will have an opportunity to decide for themselves. That vital and overshadowing fact in Irish history, the terror of the Sinn Fein gunmen, will be the only bar to the election of a really representative Parliament for Southern Ireland. I shall do my best to see that these Sinn Fein gunmen have not the power to terrorise. I submit that the future government of Ireland is now in the hands of the Irish people. The Act provides for the political unity of Ireland. No one outside Ireland can prevent that unity. Any Amendments of the Act must come from Ireland. If the representatives of the two Parliaments ask for anything from this House, subject to Imperial and strategical unity and goodwill, I am sure the request would not be refused. For years past and now Sinn Fein extremists and their Soviet colleagues in Ireland—there is Sovietism in a marked degree in Ireland—have conspired to smash the Empire. A policy of calculated and brutal arson and murder, with all its ghastly consequences, remains uncondemned by Mr. De Valera and the
648Sir H. GREENWOOD
659658657656655654653652"Nothing was gained by making this man desperate, and it was a silly, foolish, iniquitous policy to burn his farm, ruin his property, and bring his family to the grave. It is not a military question at all: it is a question of understanding the ordinary influences that govern human nature."— [OFFICIAL REPORT, 15th December, 1900; col. 897; Vol. 88.]651650649: The right hon. Gentleman has extended to the House an invitation. I propose to accept it He asks us to denounce the origin and the authors of all that is occurring in Ireland to-day. Most gladly do I denounce the authors. The authors sit on the other side of the House, and the origin is there. There is a Coalition of author and origin. One thing that to me is most contemptible in the speeches delivered from Benches opposite by Liberal Members is their assailing of their own colleagues and the policy of their old party. It seems contemptible that, having belonged to the Liberal party, and some of they having belonged even to the Government of the Liberal party that having been associated with the Liberal party, and having gathered their political power from that association, they should take the seats of the mighty and start to deliver violent diatribes against their old colleagues, and saddle old associates with the responsibility for the horrors that they themselves have brought on Ireland. I notice something different in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman from all his past Parliamentary triumphs. There was an absence of something in the orator, and an absence of something in the audience. I did not notice the triumphant note in the right hon. Gentleman's speech, nor did I recognise hilarious cheers from the Gentlemen behind him. He was right not to be triumphant, and his followers were right not to be hilarious. At this moment there is gathered in the Capital of this nation a great band of European statesmen trying to fashion out a new Europe and a new world, to create peace among all men, to bury old racial and national rivalry, and to destroy old passions and hatreds. Here is what we get for Ireland.659658657656655654653652"Nothing was gained by making this man desperate, and it was a silly, foolish, iniquitous policy to burn his farm, ruin his property, and bring his family to the grave. It is not a military question at all: it is a question of understanding the ordinary influences that govern human nature."— [OFFICIAL REPORT, 15th December, 1900; col. 897; Vol. 88.]651650649Mr. DEVLIN
: You are not allowed to repeat.Captain S. WILSON
: I am not allowed to repeat? Well, I will do it, anyway. What I stated was this—and considering that I am the only Irish Member who will probably address the House in this Debate— I think it is most disrespectful on the part of the right hon. Gentleman to leave the House.Mr. DEVLIN
: I had to leave the House to attend to certain pressing business in connection with my work, and I came back just as soon as I possibly could.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I think it is more important to attend to us than to hold meetings with the representatives of the Black and Tans.Mr. DEVLIN
: I cannot let that pass. I was dealing with the question of advising on the prerogative of mercy, involving the life of a man in Ireland, and that is more important even than the hon. Gentleman's speech.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am very glad that this merciful spirit has taken hold of the right hon. Gentleman. [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh oh!"] The right hon. Gentleman could easily have got up in the House or have given an intimation to these benches that he was engaged in profoundly important business, instead of walking out of the House when the only representative of Ireland who rose in the House wanted to state the case of those he represents. That is my complaint; but it is not the only one. The right hon. Gentleman occupied the time of the House for fully an hour and a half. He could easily have been engaged in his work of mercy while he was talking nothing from the Front Bench. During the whole of that hour and 25 minutes' speech he never dealt with a single one of those impressive cases brought before him by the hon. and gallant Gentleman. If he had done so it would not have made very much difference what I said in the House. I would have been perfectly satisfied if he had replied to the hon. and gallant Gentleman, but he did not do so, and I am here to emphasise these cases and to demand a reply, if not from him at least from his more skilful leader, who would be less melodramatic but would put a finer colour on the picture.Mr. DEVLIN
: You look like doing so.Captain S. WILSON
661: That is more than the right hon. Gentleman could do. I never knew him to stand once. I want to call the attention of the House to this case. I have called attention to the case of Canon Magner, and to the case of the Strickland Report. The right hon. Gentleman never said a word about the Strickland Report, and that is another instance of his contempt for the House of Commons. He never said a word about Canon Magner's case, nor a word about the comrades of the man who murdered this old priest and this innocent citizen, or of what is to be done to him. If any
661Mr. DEVLIN
: Ours? You are a Sinn Feiner!Captain S. WILSON
663At about 3.30 on Thursday the 10th of February, while I was in bed in my lodgings, I was awakened by the flashing in my eyes of an electric torch by an officer, who asked me where was my brother. I told him that I did not know, that he had not come home, and that I could not understand what had become of him. He then told me to get dressed. While I was dressing the officer searched every corner of our little room, but, of course, with no result. With the military party there were two sergeants of the Dublin Metropolitan Police, and one of them told me that my brother has been badly wounded and was in the Mater Hospital. They asked me would I wish to see my brother, when I said I was most anxious to see him at once. They took me away in the motor lorry to the Mater Misericordiæ Hospital. My brother was then conscious, and he told me the facts above stated. He assured me that when he was interrogated at the Castle his examination was perfectly satisfactory, and he was released and told he might go home, and it being after curfew hours, directions were given by an officer that he should be sent home on the motor lorry and he got on that vehicle with the Black and Tans auxiliary police, believing that he was going to be left at his lodgings, instead of which he was brought to Clonturk Park and fired at as above stated. When my brother made the statement to me he was perfectly conscious, and was quite capable of giving an exact and detailed account of what happened. My brother is a quiet and inoffensive man,
663As it was then after curfew hour, there was danger and difficulty for anybody going through the streets for fear of the military. Accordingly the officer-in-charge told some-soldiers to take my brother and Patrick Kennedy to their homes and leave them there, and to leave my brother at 22, Killarney Street, or as near to it as they could go. Instead of bringing my brother to his lodgings, the military drove the motor lorry by Drumcondra to Clonturk Park. They halted the motor lorry near a field, where there was unused and derelict ground. They took my brother and Patrick Kennedy out of the motor lorry, brought them into the field, put old tin cans over their heads, put them against the wall, and fired a number of shots at them. I believe Patrick Kennedy was killed almost instantaneously. My brother was hit through the tin can in his mouth on the left cheek, on the right cheek, and through the breast. Having done this the soldiers left them and went away. Shortly afterwards two members of the Dublin Metropolitan Police, on their boat in the neighbourhood, hoard groans on the other side of the wall, which came from my brother. They got into the field and they found Kennedy dead and my brother still moaning and bleeding from his wounds. They brought my brother and Kennedy to the Mater Misericordiæ Hospital.662"My brother, James Murphy, and I662: The last time you interrupted you came badly out of it. Both these cases were mentioned, and the right hon. Gentlman had one and a half hours to deal with them, but he did not once do so. He lectured the late Prime Minister, he lectured the Liberal party and the Labour party. They were all wrong, according to him. No doubt, if we judged the right hon. Gentleman by appearances we should think that every sentiment of his was a pontification, and that every act of his was an infallibility. I come to the case of these two men, Patrick Kennedy and James Murphy. They were arrested by the Crown Forces in Talbot Street, Dublin, at 9.30 p.m., on 9th February, and were taken to the military barracks. They were taken to the Castle for examination, and less than two hours afterwards, about 11 o'clock at night, they were found at Clonturk Park with tins over their heads, battened down. Kennedy was dead, and Murphy was suffering from wounds, and has since died. At the Castle they sedulously spread the story that these men left the Castle before the Curfew hour, and that some civilian murdered them. There is not a word of truth in that, and even the Chief Secretary will not attempt to make that statement here. The official statement issued by the Castle authorities stated these young men had been released at 9.45 p.m., to go home. The affidavit of a brother of one of these men is as follows:
663At about 3.30 on Thursday the 10th of February, while I was in bed in my lodgings, I was awakened by the flashing in my eyes of an electric torch by an officer, who asked me where was my brother. I told him that I did not know, that he had not come home, and that I could not understand what had become of him. He then told me to get dressed. While I was dressing the officer searched every corner of our little room, but, of course, with no result. With the military party there were two sergeants of the Dublin Metropolitan Police, and one of them told me that my brother has been badly wounded and was in the Mater Hospital. They asked me would I wish to see my brother, when I said I was most anxious to see him at once. They took me away in the motor lorry to the Mater Misericordiæ Hospital. My brother was then conscious, and he told me the facts above stated. He assured me that when he was interrogated at the Castle his examination was perfectly satisfactory, and he was released and told he might go home, and it being after curfew hours, directions were given by an officer that he should be sent home on the motor lorry and he got on that vehicle with the Black and Tans auxiliary police, believing that he was going to be left at his lodgings, instead of which he was brought to Clonturk Park and fired at as above stated. When my brother made the statement to me he was perfectly conscious, and was quite capable of giving an exact and detailed account of what happened. My brother is a quiet and inoffensive man,
663As it was then after curfew hour, there was danger and difficulty for anybody going through the streets for fear of the military. Accordingly the officer-in-charge told some-soldiers to take my brother and Patrick Kennedy to their homes and leave them there, and to leave my brother at 22, Killarney Street, or as near to it as they could go. Instead of bringing my brother to his lodgings, the military drove the motor lorry by Drumcondra to Clonturk Park. They halted the motor lorry near a field, where there was unused and derelict ground. They took my brother and Patrick Kennedy out of the motor lorry, brought them into the field, put old tin cans over their heads, put them against the wall, and fired a number of shots at them. I believe Patrick Kennedy was killed almost instantaneously. My brother was hit through the tin can in his mouth on the left cheek, on the right cheek, and through the breast. Having done this the soldiers left them and went away. Shortly afterwards two members of the Dublin Metropolitan Police, on their boat in the neighbourhood, hoard groans on the other side of the wall, which came from my brother. They got into the field and they found Kennedy dead and my brother still moaning and bleeding from his wounds. They brought my brother and Kennedy to the Mater Misericordiæ Hospital.662"My brother, James Murphy, and I662Mr. DEVLIN
: His dying declaration.Mr. O'CONNOR
665664: Yes, his dying declaration. That really is a typical case of what is going on in Ireland. Hon. Members from the Labour party went across to Ireland. I myself am very little about Ireland at present. I confine myself mostly to the city of Belfast. But I meet people here and there, and the tales of horror they tell me and the experiences of some of them is enough to make one's hair stand on end. I wonder, when I hear them, whether I am living in a civilised country. I wonder whether we have any government at all in Ireland save a government of terrorism. I come to the House of Commons and I hear it said: "There are murders committed against the officers of the Crown, let us murder in return. There is destruction of property by certain politicians, let us burn the property down of men who are not politicians; let us establish order by the creation of disorder, let us render law sacrosanct by tearing the law to tatters." I am thinking now of something more than your mere ephemeral discussions here. The right hon. Gentleman in a humorous mood depicted me as Prime Minister of a united Ireland. He meant it as a joke, but if I were to treat it seriously—and I take this aspect of it seriously—I will say this: that when the right hon. Gentleman has gone the way of his predecessors, when he and his army of men who have tried to rule Ireland and to crush it have gone, we will live in Ireland. Ireland is our country. The glory of that race, her material welfare, her intellectual development, the fostering of her industry, the fashioning of her morale, and the creation of her entire destiny is a task that will be left in our hands. But what a legacy you are leaving upon our shoulders? See what a responsibility will have to be borne? That is what I am thinking of. I am not thinking of your momentary quarrel with the Sinn
665664Mr. DEVLIN
: 1914!Mr. W. THORNE
666: to recognise that order and law counted then as we are told it counts. If in the pursuance of a policy of establishing law and order, and the recognised statutory authority of this House, they had been guilty of the same crimes against the Ulstermen that you are guilty of against my Southern countrymen, I would have denounced them as violently as I denounce them now. However you may try to put down discontent and suppress public feeling, do you think that permanent and enduring injuries will not remain? The right hon. Gentleman, at all events in my judgment, when he speaks, gives expression to the moral conscience of this country. If he does not, if the moral conscience of this country is not to be aroused by what is going on in Ireland to-day, then this nation has got into the deadly grip of a coarse materialism, out of which it will take a century to raise it. If this were a mere arena for the interchange of passionate declamation, very little good would be done by discussion. I think something ought to be done. I think that these discussions should cease to be fruitless recriminations and controversies out of which nothing comes. Is it not possible even now that something should be done? I have almost given up hope. I, with the small body of my colleagues, have been dispirited and discouraged by the small encouragement we have been given. We were trying to end the conflict. We were Constitutionalists.666Mr. DEVLIN
modus vivendi668667: Yes, the right hon Gentleman did, but it was said more in anger than anything else. He wanted to put that infliction upon me as a return for the compliments I have paid him in this House. I wish he would not prophesy. I would tell him something. There will not be any Parliament in the 26 counties. I think you knew you were only wasting time. You can fill every polling booth with Black and Tans, and do anything you like, but people will return men who will not go into Parliament. You may set up your Ulster Par-
modus vivendi668667Mr. DEVLIN
672671670669: The speeches in this Debate, interesting and valuable as they have been, have not erred on the side of brevity. I will endeavour myself to be as short as I can. The speech to which we have just listened, and particularly the last quarter of an hour of it, was of great interest and of great value. Whether it is possible now in the present condition of Irish affairs, and with the present Government with all its
672671670669Lord ROBERT CECIL
: On either side?Mr. J. JONES
675674673: Certainly, on either side. It is when I read these horrible stories on both sides that I feel it my duty as a Member of Parliament to protest. The Chief Secretary said that there were only isolated groups of murderers wandering about Ireland. I think he is entirely wrong. It is one of the most tragic parts of the Irish situation, as I hear it and as many others hear it, that the Moderates are going over to the Extremists. I was talking only the other day with a Gentleman—I prefer to give no names—who told me—and he was a Moderate of the most pronounced kind who denounced Sinn Fein with all the full-blooded eloquence of the Chief Secretary—that it was a matter of profound regret that so many of his Moderate friends were going over and joining the Extremists.675674673Lord R. CECIL
: Hr. always has.Mr. O'CONNOR
677There is not even the excuse of reprisals for this action. There was no crime in Drogheda and the district, except the robbery to which I have referred. You may judge, my dear Lord, how vain it is to counsel peace or secure a spirit of peace and charity in such surroundings."Hitherto it is only robbery in the Drogheda district. Now Woodshed has commenced. A few nights since two young men, fathers of families, were taken from their beds at dead of night, brought to a lonely place by armed men, and were found, shot dead there next morning."The people about Drogheda and the surrounding country will soon be reduced to beggary. Their houses are raided day and night on pretext of a search, and money, valuables, and anything that can be carried away, seized at the point of the revolver. As an instance, one man who was raided and lost heavily some time since, has just lost £400 in a second raid. Those who sell cattle or farm produce have not time to put the money in the bank for safety before it is seized upon. The poor people are afraid to complain lest their houses should be burned down.Their next visit to Ardee was made under their officers in lorries, some of the men having their faces blackened. They dragged two poor young men out of bed, in the email hours of the morning, and shot them dead. Othere would have met the same fate, but fortunately took the alarm in time and were absent when sought for. Their last exploit in Ardee was to seize the whole stock-in-trade of two young people, a brother and sister, and load it on their lorries. These young people kept a draper's shop, and there was nothing left to them, hardly a reel of thread. Their loss amounted to £1,500 or £2,000, and now they are ruined.676In the month of December they visited Ardee, a country town which was and is perfectly peaceful. As far as I could ascertain there was not a murder in that whole district for a hundred years. Those guardians of the peace invaded the house of the principal merchant, and carried away a quantity of goods to the amount of £150.There is a camp of Black and Tans at Gormanstown, on the borders of the diocese; and while that camp remains we may give up all hopes of peace or safety. It seems to be a nest of bandits and homicides."With the assistance of the priests I have done my best to keep things quiet in this diocese. Hitherto we have had comparative peace; but the forces of the Crown seem determined that we shall suffer like the rest.: I daresay he has, but I know he has recently. Here is a letter written by the Cardinal to an English bishop, the Roman Catholic Bishop of Southwark. I will not read the whole of it; I will only read the important part. He says this:
677There is not even the excuse of reprisals for this action. There was no crime in Drogheda and the district, except the robbery to which I have referred. You may judge, my dear Lord, how vain it is to counsel peace or secure a spirit of peace and charity in such surroundings."Hitherto it is only robbery in the Drogheda district. Now Woodshed has commenced. A few nights since two young men, fathers of families, were taken from their beds at dead of night, brought to a lonely place by armed men, and were found, shot dead there next morning."The people about Drogheda and the surrounding country will soon be reduced to beggary. Their houses are raided day and night on pretext of a search, and money, valuables, and anything that can be carried away, seized at the point of the revolver. As an instance, one man who was raided and lost heavily some time since, has just lost £400 in a second raid. Those who sell cattle or farm produce have not time to put the money in the bank for safety before it is seized upon. The poor people are afraid to complain lest their houses should be burned down.Their next visit to Ardee was made under their officers in lorries, some of the men having their faces blackened. They dragged two poor young men out of bed, in the email hours of the morning, and shot them dead. Othere would have met the same fate, but fortunately took the alarm in time and were absent when sought for. Their last exploit in Ardee was to seize the whole stock-in-trade of two young people, a brother and sister, and load it on their lorries. These young people kept a draper's shop, and there was nothing left to them, hardly a reel of thread. Their loss amounted to £1,500 or £2,000, and now they are ruined.676In the month of December they visited Ardee, a country town which was and is perfectly peaceful. As far as I could ascertain there was not a murder in that whole district for a hundred years. Those guardians of the peace invaded the house of the principal merchant, and carried away a quantity of goods to the amount of £150.There is a camp of Black and Tans at Gormanstown, on the borders of the diocese; and while that camp remains we may give up all hopes of peace or safety. It seems to be a nest of bandits and homicides."With the assistance of the priests I have done my best to keep things quiet in this diocese. Hitherto we have had comparative peace; but the forces of the Crown seem determined that we shall suffer like the rest.Lord R. CECIL
: That is a statement of facts.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: There would have been an inquiry instantly. Everybody would have known that such a thing could not take place, for an open inquiry would have been held and it would not be believed for a moment. Because everything is hidden, they do not know what to believe. I hear the Attorney-General suggesting the question might have been asked here.Lord R. CECIL
: We have been masked.The ATTORNEY-GENERAL for IRELAND (Mr. Denis Henry)
679678: What reply should we have got? You remember we asked about creameries, and we were told there was not a particle of evidence that the
679678Lord R. CECIL
684683682681680: This Debate has followed the lines which are familiar in Irish Debates. It opened with an indictment of the Government, consisting practically of a catalogue of crimes said to have been committed by the forces of the Crown. It was followed by an appeal from the Unionist point of view for good will, and
684683682681680Mr. G. BARNES
Midnight terrorism; boys savagely beaten by armed raiders."Affray in Kenmare.Barracks set on fire.Patrol ambushed.Conflicts in Carsonia.Killed at 21: Crown forces discovery in graveyard.Mysterious raid: Armed civilians at Amiens Street Goods Yard.Officer attacked by three armed ciStill another victim: Aged Cork farmer dies from wounds.Terror of the torch; burning down homestead in Tipperary.690Boy of 14 shot dead; two other boys dangerously wounded.Warren Point ambush; 'Special' shot dead, and two others injured.Auxiliary officer fired at in City restaurant.Terrible military reprisals in the South. Shot whilst dining.Fire and sword.Corporal wounded.Farmer's son shot dead.Ambushers surprised.Military operations; Son shot dead; father's house previously burned.Gallant defence against armed raiders.Father and son shot.Two Cork lads shot; found lying wounded on Patrick's Quay.Corporal killed in City public house.Shot at the counter.Balbriggan: Auxiliary policeman shot in public house; escape in nightshirt.Police car upset.R.I.C. ambushed in County Limerick.Eleven killed.Terrible reprisals.Desperate attack on Crown forces in County Longford.Mine explodes.Six civilians killed, 20 wounded.Biggest engagement since rising of 1916.A pitched battle.
Midnight terrorism; boys savagely beaten by armed raiders."Affray in Kenmare.Barracks set on fire.Patrol ambushed.Conflicts in Carsonia.Killed at 21: Crown forces discovery in graveyard.Mysterious raid: Armed civilians at Amiens Street Goods Yard.Officer attacked by three armed ciStill another victim: Aged Cork farmer dies from wounds.Terror of the torch; burning down homestead in Tipperary.690Boy of 14 shot dead; two other boys dangerously wounded.Warren Point ambush; 'Special' shot dead, and two others injured.Auxiliary officer fired at in City restaurant.Terrible military reprisals in the South. Shot whilst dining.Fire and sword.Corporal wounded.Farmer's son shot dead.Ambushers surprised.Military operations; Son shot dead; father's house previously burned.Gallant defence against armed raiders.Father and son shot.Two Cork lads shot; found lying wounded on Patrick's Quay.Corporal killed in City public house.Shot at the counter.Balbriggan: Auxiliary policeman shot in public house; escape in nightshirt.Police car upset.R.I.C. ambushed in County Limerick.Eleven killed.Terrible reprisals.Desperate attack on Crown forces in County Longford.Mine explodes.Six civilians killed, 20 wounded.Biggest engagement since rising of 1916.A pitched battle."I can assure the House that things are growing better. The statistics for the week ended the 16th instant show a great decline in the total number of crimes throughout the country, and furnish satisfactory evidence that the number of persons actually engaged in lawlessness has considerably decreased. I believe in a few months there will be an end of the murderous campaign in Ireland."689"The means available to the Government for protecting all servants of the Crown in the discharge of their duties, and for bringing to justice those who commit or connive at outrages, are steadily improving. The forces of the Crown are all effectively grappling with the organised, paid and brutal campaign of murder in Ireland."688687"were continually being called upon to support the police against the civil population, a task which has always been distasteful to regular soldiers, and should be confided only to highly disciplined troops.""Under the conditions existing in Ireland, up to the visit of the Commission, these lads"—686"Some 50,000 soldiers are at present quartered in Ireland. They are in the main young and inexperienced. Few of them have had the training given to the recruit in prewar days before joining a service unit. The majority of the junior officers are equally ignorant of their professional duties; many in infantry battalions have not passed through the Royal Military College at S685: I rise for the purpose of putting before the House the position which the Labour party proposes to take up with regard to this Amendment. We should have preferred that the discussion had taken place upon an Amendment worded similarly to that which we have on the Paper, regretting that, "in view of the present deplorable condition of affairs in Ireland, there is no expressed intention on the part of the Government to make a real effort towards reconciliation and settlement by meeting in conference the elected representatives of the Irish people, and exploring with an open mind every possible avenue to peace." This raises the question of peace through negotiations. We are very strongly favourable to that course being followed. In fact, we hoped, when we were visiting Ireland a few weeks ago with the Commission, that we were in a very fair way of having some definite negotiations opened on these lines, which we believe would have led to a satisfactory solution of the problem. We recognise that, after so many years of strife, it becomes quite easy for one side to make recriminations against the other. We also realise that much time can be spent in this House, especially if we keep in mind the British treatment of the Irish problem, in seeking to apportion blame and responsibility. Grievances can be so magnified and hatred so intensified that the road to peaceful endeavour may become entirely blocked. We further realise that, after more blood has been spilt and more property has been destroyed, some form of negotiation must at last be entered upon. I feel I am quite safe in expressing the view that there must be amongst all sections of the House, especially having regard to the appalling conditions in Ire-
Midnight terrorism; boys savagely beaten by armed raiders."Affray in Kenmare.Barracks set on fire.Patrol ambushed.Conflicts in Carsonia.Killed at 21: Crown forces discovery in graveyard.Mysterious raid: Armed civilians at Amiens Street Goods Yard.Officer attacked by three armed ciStill another victim: Aged Cork farmer dies from wounds.Terror of the torch; burning down homestead in Tipperary.690Boy of 14 shot dead; two other boys dangerously wounded.Warren Point ambush; 'Special' shot dead, and two others injured.Auxiliary officer fired at in City restaurant.Terrible military reprisals in the South. Shot whilst dining.Fire and sword.Corporal wounded.Farmer's son shot dead.Ambushers surprised.Military operations; Son shot dead; father's house previously burned.Gallant defence against armed raiders.Father and son shot.Two Cork lads shot; found lying wounded on Patrick's Quay.Corporal killed in City public house.Shot at the counter.Balbriggan: Auxiliary policeman shot in public house; escape in nightshirt.Police car upset.R.I.C. ambushed in County Limerick.Eleven killed.Terrible reprisals.Desperate attack on Crown forces in County Longford.Mine explodes.Six civilians killed, 20 wounded.Biggest engagement since rising of 1916.A pitched battle.
Midnight terrorism; boys savagely beaten by armed raiders."Affray in Kenmare.Barracks set on fire.Patrol ambushed.Conflicts in Carsonia.Killed at 21: Crown forces discovery in graveyard.Mysterious raid: Armed civilians at Amiens Street Goods Yard.Officer attacked by three armed ciStill another victim: Aged Cork farmer dies from wounds.Terror of the torch; burning down homestead in Tipperary.690Boy of 14 shot dead; two other boys dangerously wounded.Warren Point ambush; 'Special' shot dead, and two others injured.Auxiliary officer fired at in City restaurant.Terrible military reprisals in the South. Shot whilst dining.Fire and sword.Corporal wounded.Farmer's son shot dead.Ambushers surprised.Military operations; Son shot dead; father's house previously burned.Gallant defence against armed raiders.Father and son shot.Two Cork lads shot; found lying wounded on Patrick's Quay.Corporal killed in City public house.Shot at the counter.Balbriggan: Auxiliary policeman shot in public house; escape in nightshirt.Police car upset.R.I.C. ambushed in County Limerick.Eleven killed.Terrible reprisals.Desperate attack on Crown forces in County Longford.Mine explodes.Six civilians killed, 20 wounded.Biggest engagement since rising of 1916.A pitched battle."I can assure the House that things are growing better. The statistics for the week ended the 16th instant show a great decline in the total number of crimes throughout the country, and furnish satisfactory evidence that the number of persons actually engaged in lawlessness has considerably decreased. I believe in a few months there will be an end of the murderous campaign in Ireland."689"The means available to the Government for protecting all servants of the Crown in the discharge of their duties, and for bringing to justice those who commit or connive at outrages, are steadily improving. The forces of the Crown are all effectively grappling with the organised, paid and brutal campaign of murder in Ireland."688687"were continually being called upon to support the police against the civil population, a task which has always been distasteful to regular soldiers, and should be confided only to highly disciplined troops.""Under the conditions existing in Ireland, up to the visit of the Commission, these lads"—686"Some 50,000 soldiers are at present quartered in Ireland. They are in the main young and inexperienced. Few of them have had the training given to the recruit in prewar days before joining a service unit. The majority of the junior officers are equally ignorant of their professional duties; many in infantry battalions have not passed through the Royal Military College at S685Mr. A. HENDERSON
: Do you mean an independent Ireland?Colonel GREIG
694"I am ready to say for myself … that if it were necessary or if it were possible to grant Home Rule—and for reasons which I shall give later on I do not think it is possible—I would grant it fully and completely. I would give to Ireland precisely the same powers which are enjoyed now by Canada, and I would do it for this reason. By that arrangement you would have a chance of a friendly Ireland. Under this Bill there i9 absolutely no hope of a friendly Ireland."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 16th April, 1912; col. 287, Vol. 37.]: If the majority of the Irish people declare, by constitutional means, that they want an independent Ireland, so long as we take steps to safeguard Ireland from becoming a danger, I say we cannot stand in the way. I mean a settlement consistent with the aspirations of the Irish people, and I was going on to say—but my hon. and learned Friend opposite did not wait for the second part of my sentence—and the safety of this Empire, such a settlement as would secure for us a friendly Ireland With regard to a friendly Ireland, I want to quote from a speech delivered in this House by the Leader of the House. Speaking in the House of Commons on 16th April, 1912, he said:
694"I am ready to say for myself … that if it were necessary or if it were possible to grant Home Rule—and for reasons which I shall give later on I do not think it is possible—I would grant it fully and completely. I would give to Ireland precisely the same powers which are enjoyed now by Canada, and I would do it for this reason. By that arrangement you would have a chance of a friendly Ireland. Under this Bill there i9 absolutely no hope of a friendly Ireland."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 16th April, 1912; col. 287, Vol. 37.]Mr. HENDERSON
: I was never a separatist.Colonel GREIG
697"with the object of creating an atmosphere favourable to the meeting together of the representatives of the Irish people with a view to bringing about a permanent peace.""The British Government undertakes that during the truce no raids, arrests, pursuits, burnings, shootings, lootings, demolitions, courts-martial or other acts of violence will be carried out by its forces.""Let us fight for the great and sound principles of the European system. The first is the principle of nationality—that is to say, not the conquest or subjugation of any great community or any strong race of men, but the setting free of those races which have been subjugated. And if doubt arises about disputed areas of country, we should try to settle their ultimate destination with a fair regard to the wishes of the people who live in them."696"The Liberal party has special interest in the causes for which we are struggling in this great War, and the principle that the
696b(ba(a
b(ba(a"If there ever be a British statesman who will really desire to bring peace to the peoples of these two neighbouring islands, he will approach the task in the following manner:
b(ba(a
b(ba(a"Those who talk like this are simply fooling with a phrase. As it is applied to Ireland the expression has no definite meaning. The essence of Dominion Home Rule for Canada, Australia, etc., is, as Mr. Bonar Law put it in the British House of Commons, 30th March, 1920: 'That they have control of their whole destinies.' Their right to secede altogether from the British connection, if they so desire, is also definitely acknowledged. To quote Mr. Bonar Law again: 'If the self-governing Dominions those to say to-morrow, 'We will no longer make a part of the British Empire,' we (the British Government) would not try to force them. Dominion Home Rule means the right to decide their own destinies.'"695"We have indicated the basis time after time—Ireland's separate nationality, which
695: Perhaps he will take the opportunity in the House of explaining what he means. I am endeavouring to explain what I mean. I was going to say that as a former Home Ruler he may object to the enlarged demand. I am one of those, like the hon. Member for the Falls Division of Belfast (Mr. Devlin), who would like to have seen this settled long ago, when it would have been very much easier to settle than it is now, but I would remind those who object to the enlarged demand that for nearly 40 years from those benches, and for 18 years to my knowledge, there has been a most insistent demand for self-government within the Empire. That was their legitimate and their reasonable demand, and if there is an enlarged demand now before the country and before the world, the responsibility rests on those who resisted the more reasonable demand, and is does not fall to their lot to question the enlarged demand, provided that that enlarged demand is made known by proper and constitutional means.697"with the object of creating an atmosphere favourable to the meeting together of the representatives of the Irish people with a view to bringing about a permanent peace.""The British Government undertakes that during the truce no raids, arrests, pursuits, burnings, shootings, lootings, demolitions, courts-martial or other acts of violence will be carried out by its forces.""Let us fight for the great and sound principles of the European system. The first is the principle of nationality—that is to say, not the conquest or subjugation of any great community or any strong race of men, but the setting free of those races which have been subjugated. And if doubt arises about disputed areas of country, we should try to settle their ultimate destination with a fair regard to the wishes of the people who live in them."696"The Liberal party has special interest in the causes for which we are struggling in this great War, and the principle that the
696b(ba(a
b(ba(a"If there ever be a British statesman who will really desire to bring peace to the peoples of these two neighbouring islands, he will approach the task in the following manner:
b(ba(a
b(ba(a"Those who talk like this are simply fooling with a phrase. As it is applied to Ireland the expression has no definite meaning. The essence of Dominion Home Rule for Canada, Australia, etc., is, as Mr. Bonar Law put it in the British House of Commons, 30th March, 1920: 'That they have control of their whole destinies.' Their right to secede altogether from the British connection, if they so desire, is also definitely acknowledged. To quote Mr. Bonar Law again: 'If the self-governing Dominions those to say to-morrow, 'We will no longer make a part of the British Empire,' we (the British Government) would not try to force them. Dominion Home Rule means the right to decide their own destinies.'"695"We have indicated the basis time after time—Ireland's separate nationality, which
695Mr. HENDERSON
703"between representatives of the British Government and Dail Eireann. If these proposals are accepted by the British Government, Dail Eireann will accept them and a cessation of all activities which might hamper the assembly and sitting of such a conference could be speedily arranged.""Those proposals involved a truce and a conference unhampered by preliminary conditions"—702701700699698: When I came down to the House to-day my intention was to say a few words on the subject of reprisals. After listening to the speeches to-night, I am in some difficulty. I listened to the very long speech of the Chief Secretary for Ireland, but I did not gather from it whether His Majesty's Government are or are not deliberately pursuing a policy of reprisals. If they are not, obviously any words of mine are useless. If they are, I wanted to speak to them from the experience of nearly half a lifetime in the exercise of arbitrary power. I began my experience when, under three successive generals, in
703"between representatives of the British Government and Dail Eireann. If these proposals are accepted by the British Government, Dail Eireann will accept them and a cessation of all activities which might hamper the assembly and sitting of such a conference could be speedily arranged.""Those proposals involved a truce and a conference unhampered by preliminary conditions"—702701700699698Brigadier-General COCKERILL
10.0 P.M."I repeat the opinion expressed at the previous Sessions three months ago, that law and order cannot be restored or maintained by what I feel bound to describe as a competition in crime."705704: I have listened, as I believe a large majority of the House have listened, not only with interest, but with sympathy to the concluding observations of my hon. and gallant Friend who has just sat down. If I may say so, I think that is the spirit in which all ought to endeavour to approach perhaps the
10.0 P.M."I repeat the opinion expressed at the previous Sessions three months ago, that law and order cannot be restored or maintained by what I feel bound to describe as a competition in crime."705704Mr. ASQUITH
: Looking for a job.Dr. MURRAY
706: During that time, as far as my memory serves me, he was a docile, uncomplaining, uncritical, and, in the language of the present day, a reliable supporter. Well, this is a matter which I recommend him to go and settle with
706Mr. ASQUITH
: No!Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Do not try and wriggle out.Dr. MURRAY
: I made no accusation against the right hon. Gentleman of being an accomplice in crime. What I said was that I feel it very strongly that an ex-Prime Minister of this country should have made speeches unwittingly—I used that word—which were a source of encouragement to Sinn Fein.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: That is a compliment to my character at the expense of my intelligence. But the right hon. Gentleman said in my hearing that the speeches made by me had been treated as an expression of sympathy and encouragement.Mr. ASQUITH
709708707: I think the right hon. Gentleman will credit me with the intention of knowing what I did. I never made a speech—it is really a wicked charge—I have never made one speech during the whole of this campaign, in which I have not denounced in the strongest and most emphatic terms, the resort by the Sinn Fein organisations, or by whatever name it calls itself—a branch of the Sinn Fein organisation—to any form of outrage or crime. I have never expressed anything but the most heartful denunciation of these crimes. I have never accused and never will accuse the great bulk of His Majesty's Forces in Ireland and particularly the Army and the Royal Irish Constabulary of having any sympathy with the misguided and I think criminal policy of the Government. But it is because I felt so strongly and denounced so sternly the resort by the supporters of Sinn Fein to methods of crime and outrage, because of my hatred of their
709708707Mr. ASQUITH
: There are hundreds.Mr. DEVLIN
711710: I only quote it because it is one of the latest, and reflects a most lurid light upon the absurd claim put forward by the Prime Minister and the Chief Secretary that, through the operation of this method of reprisals, order has been restored. The Chief Secretary made no attempt to deal with this; I do not know whether the right hon. Gentleman who is to follow me is in a position to do so. If the facts be as they are sworn to, they are of such a kind as to make any one of us—any Englishman, any Scotsman, anybody who has any kind of responsibility, direct or indirect, for the conduct and administration of this country—blush with shame. After the many illustrations that have been already given, I will not go further into the details of particular
711710Mr. ASQUITH
: Featherstone.Mr. REMER
712: Featherstone was another. I was Home Secretary at the time. I was accused of being an assassin. That is another thing that has been brought to my charge. It was not for that that I appointed a Commission. There was a regrettable loss of life at an industrial disturbance at Feathertsone at the hands of the military. I, as Home Secretary, appointed a Commission, of which the present Lord Haldane was one of the members, which inquired upon the spot into the whole of the facts—an open inquiry to which all witnesses were admitted and not excluding the Press, which made a most valuable report, which has been the foundation, or, at least, an authoritative declaration of the duties of the civilian and military powers in case of dispute ever since. There is a catena of authority. Why does not the Government do the same thing? I ask my right hon. Friend the Leader of the House to tell us. I know what he is going to say. "The state of things is so serious in Ireland, that it would not be safe." Safe for whom? They would have no difficulty whatever to secure immunity for the judges and the witnesses who appeared before such a tribunal. To what risks, and from what quarter would they be exposed? Not from the Auxiliaries of the Government, I hope. I cannot conceive what other risks would happen to them.712Mr. ASQUITH
713: I do not need to claim that His Majesty's Government would welcome eagerly, and would do as much to secure, a real peace as any section of this House, but you will only get that if you do what my right hon. Friend (Mr. Asquith) said,
713Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
: I hope they are quoted. [HON. MEMBERS: "Order!" and "Shut up!"]Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I have very little time—Mr. BONAR LAW
: Do not make false accusations.Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
: I do not deny that if the right hon. Gentleman really feels that we are as guilty as he now declares us to be, it is his duty to say so, and I do not deny that extracts might be taken from his speeches which produce an effect which he does not desire. But I have something more to say which I think is a legitimate complaint as to the first action taken by the right hon. Gentleman in regard to the denunciation of murder. That action was taken, unless I am mistaken, after the Balbriggan outrage. Before that outrage, 82 policemen had been murdered in Ireland. He did not bring that to the notice of the House of Commons. What is more—Mr. BONAR LAW
: That is not true. I condemned them, both in this House and out of it.Mr. ASQUITH
714: I have looked, and I have not been able to find a single reference. There is, however, proof which does not admit of contradiction that we have some ground for that complaint. In the first Vote of Censure on what has been
714Mr. BONAR LAW
: We never said it was the sole reason. We said that you were the sole reason.Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
"I say deliberately that in the whole of modern history, taking all the circumstances into account, there has been no rebellion or insurrection put down with so much blood and so much savagery as the recent insurrection in Ireland.": Unfortunately, I have got some quotations here. I do not think it is true, but undoubtedly that was said. In this House, on 11th May, 1916, Mr. Dillon used these words about the right hon. Gentleman:
"I say deliberately that in the whole of modern history, taking all the circumstances into account, there has been no rebellion or insurrection put down with so much blood and so much savagery as the recent insurrection in Ireland."Mr. BONAR LAW
: There were no reprisals.Captain W. BENN
Interruption.715: It was said constantly by the Nationalists when Lord Spencer was carrying out the government of Ireland, and it was said constantly by the Nationalists, plus Mr. Gladstone and
Interruption.715Mr. BONAR LAW
: The reason why we will not listen to you is that yours is a duller speech. [HON. MEMBERS: "Insult!" "Withdraw!"]Mr. HOGGE
: I would call the attention of the hon. Member (Mr. Hogge) to the fact that the hon. and gallant Member sitting by his side (Captain Benn) was listened to in almost absolute silence. Surely when we talk about fair play, it is the proper thing to listen to the reply.Mr. SPEAKER
roseroseMr. HOGGE
: The hon. Member has not been here, I think, during the whole or greater part of the Debate.Mr. SPEAKER
: It is quite true I have not been present in the Debate. It is also true that there was no chance of speaking in the Debate except by interruption.Mr. HOGGE
717"When, however, he asks, as I understand him to ask, for a sudden and immediate removal of what he calls coercive measures, I must point out to him that if we were to cease governing by force, might we not say, as the French proverb has it, 'Let the murderers begin.'"716"—of standing up for everything they do, whether right or wrong, of crediting every statement they make, and discrediting every statement in competition, and refusing any inquiry into their conduct, no matter what the cause of it may be.""What I saw in Tipperary opened my eyes to the pitch of demoralisation, incompetence, brutality, and lawlessness to which the subordinate agents of the right hon. Gentleman bad been brought by his system"—: I will read one more extract. This one accuses the police of all the crimes which we hear now, and accuses the Government of backing them up and refusing an inquiry. They were the words of Mr. John Morley on 16th February, 1891:
717"When, however, he asks, as I understand him to ask, for a sudden and immediate removal of what he calls coercive measures, I must point out to him that if we were to cease governing by force, might we not say, as the French proverb has it, 'Let the murderers begin.'"716"—of standing up for everything they do, whether right or wrong, of crediting every statement they make, and discrediting every statement in competition, and refusing any inquiry into their conduct, no matter what the cause of it may be.""What I saw in Tipperary opened my eyes to the pitch of demoralisation, incompetence, brutality, and lawlessness to which the subordinate agents of the right hon. Gentleman bad been brought by his system"—Mr. BONAR LAW
: By dismissing them.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: No, they will pay the penalty of the crime.Mr. BONAR LAW
: How many were tried for the Cork outrages?Mr. RAFFAN
: I have listened to all this string of charges made by the mover of the Amendment. I receive them all with the greatest suspicion, and I will tell the House why. We were told by my Noble Friend (Lord Robert Cecil) that no witnesses were allowed in Cork. It is not true.Mr. BONAR LAW
: What I said was that no counsel was allowed.Lord R. CECIL
: If he said that, it is a different thing.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I did say so.Lord R. CECIL
: But no individual was there on trial, and therefore there was no necessity for counsel. In regard to Mallow, what happened was that the inquiry was postponed again and again, in order to get evidence, and it was not given. And why? The Sinn Feiners are very skilful propagandists. They avoid giving evidence at a court where it can be examined and sifted. They prefer to have it circulated to Members of the House of Commons, who can use it here.Mr. BONAR LAW
: We do not want to be murdered by the "Black and Tans."Mr. O'CONNOR
: What about Strickland?Mr. DEVLIN
: I must be the judge of what I shall say. In regard to the whole matter, there is no advantage to be gained by harrowing our feelings with accounts of brutality or murders on either side. That does not help us. If it could be said with truth that we are deliberately encouraging and not punishing crimes of that kind, then that would be a charge against the British Government.Mr. BONAR LAW
: We make that charge.Mr. O'CONNOR
: As I have said, that is a charge that has always been made against any British Government.Mr. BONAR LAW
: What does Strickland say?Mr. DEVLIN
: This is the real position. My right hon. Friend said, taking the different parts of his Amendment, that our claim that the position in Ireland has improved is false, is entirely wrong. In June and July of last year, to my knowledge, Unionists from all over Ireland were telling us, "It is no good; you have lost Ireland, and you may as well recognise it." The police were in a state of so great demoralisation that some of the officials in Dublin Castle told us that they would resign wholesale. Sinn Fein courts were being held all over Ireland openly; patrols wearing the armlet of the Irish Republican Army were going openly and controlling the traffic in the towns. What was worse than all that, the civil courts could not sit in any part of 26 counties. Now, what has happened? Let me tell you another thing that occurred in my own experience. A friend of mine in Lancashire brought a doctor from one of these Southern counties to see me here at that time. I asked him about the state of Ireland. He said: "It is perfectly peaceable in my neighbourhood." I expressed surprise, and he said: "It is peaceable because there is no opposition to Sinn Fein. Whatever they ask is given; they are the rulers of the country." I say that that confession, that fact that the Government of the Crown was no longer the Government of Ireland, was, to my mind, a far more serious thing than anything else that could happen in regard to the Government of Ireland. That has changed. The police are being recruited by Irishmen, not merely by those who come from England. The civil courts are running in all parts of Ireland, and at the time I speak of it was impossible to get anyone convicted for any crime—Mr. BONAR LAW
: Now, everybody is convicted.Mr. J. JONES
: Now, convictions are taking place, and men are being punished. The law is again asserting itself.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Bonar Law (HON MEMBERS: "Order." "Cheap." "Labour Humour").Mr. J. JONES
719: Do not imagine—the House would make a great mistake if it imagined—that we have ever felt certain that the restoration of order after such conditions would be a short
719Mr. BONAR LAW
: May I ask the right hon. Gentleman to say a word about the Strickland Report?Captain REDMOND
rose roseLieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Will the hon. Gentleman consider the advisability of supporting a private Bill on the subject, if introduced?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
41.  asked the Prime Minister whether he has found it necessary to dispense with the services of any public servant in pursuance of the threat contained in his letter of August, 1919, that if such persons would not effect considerable economies in their Departments they would have to make room for those who would?Captain TUDOR-REES
42.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in the interests of economy, he will now abolish the vacant office of Minister without Portfolio?Captain TUDOR-REES
: Are we to understand from that that the Government are considering the advisability of not filling the vacancy?Captain TUDOR-REES
: Palm oil?Mr. J. JONES
: The purchasers agreed to pay 45s. per suit for approximately 577,000 suits. The contract is subject to a deposit of £50,000, which becomes for feitable in the event of failure of the contractor to carry out its terms. The purchasers have, up to the present, taken delivery and paid for approximately 240,000 suits, which leaves a balance of approximately 337,000 suits not yet taken delivery of. The contractors have strongly represented that a large proportion of the suits are not made to ordinary trade sizes, and that this has prevented them from selling. These representations are now being considered.Mr. HOPE
: Can the right hon. Gentleman tell me whether the trial is taking place this week, and whether it is intended to carry out the threat to finish the Lord Mayor's brother, as they finished the Lord Mayor?MacVEAGH
7.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether a departmental inquiry is to be held into the question of the economic value of the middle trader?Lieut.-Colonel A. MURRAY
: What advantage is to be gained by these conferences? Would it not be best to leave the middle traders alone, and leave trade free?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
10.  asked the President of the Board of Trade the number of bicycles of German manufacture imported into Great Britain during 1920; the approximate original cost of the machine under the head of labour; and the cost of labour, for the same article, in the case of a machine manufactured in this country?Sir F. HALL
: Docs my hon. and gallant Friend recognise that, under the present rate of exchange, these bicycles can be imported into this country at about one-fourth of the cost at which they can be manufactured here, and do the Government recognise the very detrimental effects that that is bound to have on British commerce?Sir F. HALL
: Is the Government taking immediate steps, as promised in the last Session, to bring in a Bill with regard to this exchange system?Sir F. HALL
13.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether any very noticeable increases have occurred in the importation of German goods into this country in the last three months; if so, in what direction; and whether, in that case, such importation has had the effect of depressing the labour market here?Captain TERRELL
: Is my hon. and gallant Friend aware that certain German goods are being imported into this country to-day marked with the words, "Made in Birmingham"?Captain TERRELL
: Is the Merchandise Marks Act still in operation, or has it, like Rip Van Winkle, gone to sleep?Sir F. HALL
15. 520 asked the President of the Board of Trade whether it has been
520Major BARNES
: Is it the fact that people applying for licences have been asked to state the persons to whom the goods which are to be imported are to go?Major BARNES
16.  asked the President of the Board of Trade if an import licence for two hundredweights of salicylic acid (B.P.) required for the purpose of making medicated ointment has been refused; and if he will say in the manufacture of what dyestuffs, colours, or colouring matters salicylic acid (B.P.) is used?Major BARNES
17.  asked the President of the Board of Trade if the list of products prohibited from importation except under licence has yet been issued; and, if not, what is the reason?Major BARNES
: May we take it that when this list is published it will be a complete list and that importers may know the commodities that are not mentioned on it may be imported without any further inquiry?Major BARNES
: Who is to be the final judge of the right name to apply to the chemicals?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: May we take it that the list when published will be identical with the list which has been furnished to the Customs and Excise, so that there is not likely to be any trouble, and the state of uncertainty at present existing will be removed?Major BARNES
524: Does not my hon. and gallant Friend think that, as there are over 2,000,000 tons laid up,
524Lieut.-Colonel Sir F. HALL
: Does my hon. and gallant Friend recognise the fact that the ships are laid up because there is not the merchandise to carry, and that, if this additional tonnage is thrown on to the market, it will have very detrimental effects?Sir F. HALL
: Will they be dealt with in the Anti-Dumping Bill?Dr. MURRAY
: I should require notice of that question.Sir P
58. 530 asked the Minister of Transport whether his attention has been called to the announcement of the directors of the North British Railway Company that, owing to the action of the Minister in
530Captain LOSEBY
: I want to ask only whether this company has any surplus funds created during the War from which dividends might be paid?Captain LOSEBY
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say how much of the cost of the occupation has already been paid by the Germans?Captain WEDGWOOD BENN
38.  asked the Prime Minister if he is aware of the many proved cases of cruelty involved in the breaking and training of wild and domestic animals, other than horses, for performances on the stage and in travelling circuses, and that an increasing number of people object to these performances; and if he will consider introducing legislation on this subject?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
46.  asked the Prime Minister whether it is expected a lasting settlement can be reached at the forthcoming conference in London on the Near East if Turks and Greeks are to be invited to attend, but not representatives of the Government of Russia?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the Prime Minister's answer did not reply to the question on the Paper? Can the right hon. Gentleman answer the question? Does he think there will be any firm settlement with the Near East without consulting Russia?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Does not the right hon. Gentleman think it contrary to the whole spirit of the mandates to put it under the administration of the Colonial Office?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Does not the right hon. Gentleman think it a very important matter to transfer a mandate from the Foreign Office to the Colonial Office, and shall we have an opportunity of debating the whole question?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Are you going to persist in taking a census in Ireland in the present circumstances?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Was she not used at the Peace Conference?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that, while he has been building up the stocks we have lost some of our best markets for coal?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that I sent particulars privately to the Chief Secretary three days ago about this alleged atrocity to this gentleman, and they have not yet any information about it? Is it not always possible to get accounts of atrocities on the other side within a very few hours?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: More shame to you.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Will the hon. Gentleman find time to look into cases giving evidence of gross cruelty if I send them to him?Lieut - Commander KENWORTHY
39.  asked the Prime Minister whether the Sub-committee of the Committee of Imperial Defence set up to inquire into warship building policy for the Royal Navy has completed its sittings; whether its Report has been submitted to the Cabinet; whether it will be laid before this House; who were the members of the Committee; and what were the terms of reference?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: When will it finish its sittings?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Do they include German ships surrendered to this country as part of the reparations? Are they included in the figures?Lieut.-Commander KENW0RTHY
: If it is a different substance altogether and there is no substance included in the list even under a different name?Major M. WOOD
: May importers import any substance that is not included in that list?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
4.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether he is aware that the main tenance by the Government of high reserve prices for controlled wool is likely to accentuate the existing trade de pression; and whether he will give in structions for the Government stock of wool to be liquidated at approximately the current world prices?Major Sir KEITH FRASER
81. 552 asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of
552Sir K. FRASER
: Is it not a fact that many manufacturers could not get on without the aid of these merchants to dispose of the goods which our men turn out, and that no inquiry of this kind will lead to any good or tell us anything that we do not already know about the great value of the merchant to British industry?Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
: What does he think the credit or indorsement of such institutions would be worth?Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
: The hon. Member will recall that effect was given in the Finance Act, 1920, to the very important recommendations of the Royal Commission in regard to the graduation and differentiation of the Income Tax and to the problem of the double charge of Income Tax within the Empire. While I cannot undertake to deal this Session with the whole of the remaining recommendations of the Commission, I hope to introduce early in the Session a Bill dealing with certain urgent matters, including the recommendations as to the three years' average.The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER (Mr. Chamberlain)
: I made a statement a week ago to a deputation and, I think, it appeared in the Press. I cannot hope to change the law in time for the change to be operative for the coming financial year, but I hope to get the legislation through so that the change may be operative in the financial year following the coming one.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I said last Session that I hoped to introduce legislation in the course of last Session, but I found that impossible, and, considering that the House only rose on Christmas Eve, I think hon. Members will not blame me. I said, and it remains true, that I cannot hope to make the change operative in the year in which the House legislates; but it is still my desire to legislate as early as possible. I hope to do so this Session so that the change would be brought into effect in the next current year. As regards assessments, the present year's assessments must be made on the three years' average. The three years' average has been very much in favour of the taxpayer, who has had the advantage of it during the last seven years, and I am afraid he must put up with it for one year longer now that it may possibly result to his disadvantage.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: No, I have said that it will not be made in the new financial year.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: You can discuss it on the Budget.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
31.  asked the Prime Minister if it is absolutely necessary to take a census of the people this year; if such might be put off for a couple of years with advantage and economy; and if he will consider the matter.Major Sir BERTRAM FALLE
32.  asked the Prime Minister if he is aware that this country has remitted some £80,000,000 of debt due by the Belgian people for whom we fought; and if he can remit their debts to the great Dominions who came to fight for us, or if he will at least remit the interest on these debts?Sir B. FALLE
: I cannot at present say whether or not this Bill will be proceeded with this Session.Mr. BONAR LAW
: As regards the first and second parts of the question, statements recently appeared in the Press that concessions in these districts were on offer and that certain oil companies were in communication with the Soviet authorities. So far as is known, however, nothing has resulted from these negotiations, which, so far as they applied to lands already held by British interests, could not be countenanced by His Majesty's Government. As regards the last part of the question, the Russian trade agreement would not have given the United Kingdom any preference in this matter.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I can add nothing to the answer which was given by the Prime Minister to a similar question by my Noble Friend on the 23rd December last.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I do not think that the present from any point of view is a suitable time for attempting to deal with this question.Mr. BONAR LAW
: There is no question of a blank cheque. The work will be conducted by one Department of the Government instead of another, and I think my right hon. Friend is right in saying that there is great advantage in having one Department responsible for making Estimates.Mr. BONAR LAW
: My right hon. Friend stated distinctly that an Estimate will be presented. We are at present administering the country, and, obviously, we cannot refrain from doing what is necessary until the House has passed the Estimates.Mr. BONAR LAW
: In view of the great changes resulting from the War, I think it is very necessary that a census should be taken this year, and in any case, the arrangements which were confirmed by this House last Session have now gone so far that the cancellation of them is, I think, out of the question.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Yes.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I cannot say.Mr. BONAR LAW
542: There will be the usual opportunity, but there is no question of transferring mandates to the Colonial Office or any other Department.
542Mr. BONAR LAW
: I do not see any point in that remark at all. The mandate is given to a nation. What Department exercises it is for the nation to decide. There may be some point in what my hon. and gallant Friend (Lieut.-Colonel A. Murray) suggests, that the title Colonial Office is not a suitable one for the Department exercising the office. That is being considered by the GovernmentMr. BONAR LAW
: That is a general statement of opinion which I cannot indorse.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The whole tenor of my right hon. Friend's statement was to show that the object is to have a complete examination in order to avoid further commitments to expenditure until we have examined it and until the House has sanctioned it.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I hope so. At all events, we would save no time in settling the matter by accepting the suggestion.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I would refer the hon. Member to the answer given by the Prime Minister on Thursday last, to which I have nothing to add.Mr. BONAR LAW
: No such power is clearly stated in the Treaty, but it is obvious that if a country refused to exercise a mandate it must have some means of giving effect to its refusal.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The present law enables the judge to exempt a woman from service on a jury on her application in respect of any case by reason of the nature of the evidence to be given or of the issues to be tried. It would be neither equitable or practicable to grant to women any further exemption which is denied to men. I am unable, therefore, to grant the facilities which my hon. Friend asks.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The Bulgarian Government have enquired unofficially whether any matters affecting Bulgarian interests are likely to be discussed at the forthcoming conference. They have been informed that the programme of the Conference will bear only on the Treaty of Peace with Turkey.Mr. BONAR LAW
545: I cannot agree with my hon. Friend. The idea is that as far as possible women should be put on an equality with men. If men were allowed
545Mr. BONAR LAW
: That will be considered.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The Government do not consider that the appointment of a Royal Commission would serve any useful purpose. A Committee under the Chairmanship of Sir Alfred Watson, the Government Actuary, has been enquiring into this question, and has made certain recommendations which will be carefully considered by the Government.Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
554: As the House knows, it is essentially an emergency Bill. It will, I hope, be available to Members to-morrow evening, and it is the inten-
554Mr. BONAR LAW
: I have received notice of a similar question from my hon. Friend the Member for Dunfermline (Mr. Wallace). I think the House understood, and I know it was understood by my right hon. Friend responsible for the Amendment to-day (Sir D. Maclean), that the Debate should end today, and, so far as the Government are concerned, the position of public business makes it essential that we should end it to-day, but I would remind the House that there are Supplementary Estimates for the Royal Irish Constabulary, which will enable a discussion to take place over very much the same ground.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I am glad my hon. Friend altered his phraseology. He said "those people who wish to speak," and altered it to "those who find it their duty to speak." There is always that complaint in every Debate. It is obvious that the whole House cannot take part in it, and the position of financial business makes it very undesirable to go on for more than one day.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Oh, no. We shall have what is called a whole Parliamentary day, which is more than an afternoon, and I have already stated that there will be other opportunities for discussion in connection with the Supplementary Estimates.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I think that we have practically finished taking evidence. I hope to send in the Report shortly.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The answer to the first three parts of the question is in the negative. The Sub-committee is composed of the First Lord of the Admiralty, the First Sea Lord, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, the President of the Board of Trade, the Minister of Transport, and myself, and is taking such evidence as it thinks fit on the question of the capital ship in the Royal Navy in view of modern scientific developments and the experience of the recent War.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The suggestion in my hon. Friend's question is now under the consideration of the Government.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The answer is in the negative, for the reason that Departments have satisfactorily acted upon the letter mentioned.Mr. BONAR LAW
: It is not filled in the meantime, because it is not necessary to do so now, but we cannot be sure that pressure of work will not make it necessary again to have a Minister without Portfolio.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The office has not in the meantime been filled up.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that nearly all the cases of cruelty can be traced to foreign trainers, and that British trainers are always willing to afford facilities for investigation?Commander BELLAIRS
: Will the hon. Gentleman make inquiries again?Mr. PERCY
45. 523 asked the Prime Minister whether, in the efforts of the Government to establish credits in various European countries to promote the revival of international trade, the foreign governments and banks in the countries con-
523Mr. PERCY
: There is no question as to any inquiry. He is to be put on trial.Mr. HENRY
: Yes, but the messenger often meets with a mishap.Mr. HENRY
: My hon. Friend has given notice of three questions, and my right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary is inquiring into the allegations contained in the third question, but is unable to furnish a reply at such short notice.The ATTORNEY-GENERAL for IRELAND (Mr. Denis Henry)
: The case the hon. Gentleman asks about occurred in Cork. It is not easy to communicate with Cork.Mr. HENRY
: It is very difficult to trace them, they are so frequent.Mr. HENRY
: No, I can assure the hon. Gentleman there is no such intention.Mr. HENRY
: Is there any power in the Treaty for a country that has been given a mandate to give it up?Sir E. CARSON
: Will it be possible to provide for the subtraction of the allowance when the original payment is made?Colonel MILDMAY
: I should want notice of that question.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I should like to consider the Article with my hon. and gallant Friend.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I would refer the hon. Member to Articles 428 to 431 of the Treaty of Versailles, which have not been varied in any respect.The SECRETARY, OVERSEAS TRADE DEPARTMENT (Mr. Kellaway)
: I have no information on the subject, but will make in quiry.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I understand that Belgium, Denmark, Germany, the Nether-land, Portugal, Switzerland and the United States of America grant visas valid for one year, whilst Italy, Luxemburg, and Norway grant visas valid for six months.Mr. KELLAWAY
50.  asked the Prime Minister whether during the present Session the Government will amend the system of old age pension administration now in vogue, so that all pensioners who do not pay Income Tax on attaining the age shall receive the full pension, irrespective of their means, so that no longer shall any penalty be imposed upon thrift?Captain BOWYER
: Is it economy which prevents the Government from dealing with the matter?Captain BOWYER
: I asked whether any permanent commitments—of course, day to day commitments must be liquidated— will be postponed until after the House of Commons has had opportunity of examining the proposition?Mr. LAMBERT
: May I ask the Leader of the House whether an Estimate for the expenditure on Mesopotamia and Palestine will be submitted to the House of Commons, and that no new permanent commitments will be entered into until the House has endorsed such Estimates?Mr. LAMBERT
55. 529 asked the Minister of Transport the net revenue for 1913 and 1920, respectively, of the railways under
529Mr. LAMBERT
: When does the right hon. Gentleman think he will have the net receipts for 1920 available?Mr. LAMBERT
28.  asked the Prime Minister whether the Government propose to introduce legislation to give effect to the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Income Tax; and, in particular, whether, in view of the great depression in trade and the circumstance that the continuance of the three years' average in connection with Income Tax will in many cases operate very oppressively, he will propose any alteration of the law in respect of it?Mr. G. TERRELL
: Does my right hon. Friend propose this year to assess incomes on the single year or on the three years' average? I ask for a definite statement on this matter, as it is one of great interest and importance to the trading community.Mr. TERRELL
: I am afraid I must oppose my right hon. Friend.Mr. TERRELL
: Am I to understand that the change will be made as from the commencement of the new financial year?Mr. TERRELL
: Does not my right hon. Friend recollect that when I pressed him on this subject on the Budget discussion last April he said he would make the change at the earliest possible moment, and gave everyone the impression that the change would be made that year, not to be operative that year, but this year? Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the continuance of the three years' average is going to greatly affect industry and to aggravate the present unemployment?Mr. TERRELL
37.  asked the Prime Minister if he will grant facilities for legislation to provide that no woman shall be liable to serve on a jury without her consent?Mr. G. TERRELL
: Will that Report be published?Mr. WILSON-FOX
25.  asked the Prime Minister whether, having regard to the uncertainty which exists in regard to many matters of financial, economic, industrial, and social importance as to which official statistics as at present compiled by Government Departments are either silent, imperfect, or inaccurate, he will consider the immediate appointment of a Royal Commission to report and advise upon the whole question of the scope and preparation of official statistics with special regard to the inclusion in them of such information as would be of service to Parliament when considering proposals for financial legislation?Mr. WILSON-FOX
: I have been asked to answer this question. The stocks of Government wools are being realised at approximately the current world prices as rapidly as is possible in the present depressed state of the wool markets. Under existing financial conditions it is not considered advisable to force wool on the market in excess of trade require monts.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of MUNITIONS (Mr. James Hope)
: Will there be any merchants' representatives on the Committee?Mr. KILEY
: I should like to know who is paying the cost of it.Mr. KILEY
: Will the hon. Gentleman consider the advisability of approaching any of these banks?Mr. KILEY
: Can we have an opportunity of discussing this matter before we discuss the Anti-Dumping Bill?Mr. KILEY
12.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether he is aware that the tin-mining industry in Cornwall is at a complete standstill and that all those normally engaged in it are unemployed; and whether any action can be taken to help the industry to recover?Mr. WIGNALL
: Can the right hon. Gentleman hold out any hope of the Government adopting any of the recommendations of the recent Committee, because there are other causes than the economic by which the conditions could be improved?Mr. WIGNALL
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that this Committee states in its Report that the issue is largely a legal one, and that they know nothing about the law?Mr. MacVEAGH
: Are not matters of this kind reported from Cork to Dublin Castle?Mr. MacVEAGH
: Does the right hon. Gentleman mean to say that, although he has a private telephone wire running to Dublin Castle, he is unable to obtain information about this case after three days' notice?Mr. MacVEAGH
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. MacVEAGH
: I have no information on the subject. I shall be very glad to receive information that anybody sends on the subject, so that those guilty of cruelty may be prosecuted.Sir J. BAIRD
: It depends on the character of the Bill.Sir J. BAIRD
: I have been asked by the Prime Minister to answer this question. I have no information to the effect suggested in the first two paragraphs. Cruelty to animals for the purpose of training them for performances is an offence and can be dealt with under Section 1 of the Protection of Animals Act, 1911; and on the information at present before me, I am not satisfied that it is necessary to extend these provisions.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Sir J. Baird)
: There is no official supervision, but under the Act to which I have referred—that of 1911—the police have power on their own observation or on reports being received, to arrest people for cruelty.Sir J. BAIRD
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. CLYNES
: Is it quite fair to private Members that in an important Debate of this character the time is almost entirely occupied by prominent statesmen in the House, who wish to speak, or who feel it their duty to speak, at inordinate length?Mr. WALLACE
555: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that there are three Amend-
555Mr. DEVLIN
18.  asked the Secretary for Mines whether he is aware that a circular has been issued to coal merchants in Scotland, and marked urgent and confidential, asking them to stock coal reserves until March; whether this has been done in view of the announcement that coal will be decontrolled as from 1st March; and whether he can state what is the purpose of building up huge stocks of coal in the country?Mr. NEIL MACLEAN
: I am fully aware of the agreement reached at the last meeting of the Board of Trade Whitley Council. The question of permanent employment for ex-service men who are temporarily employed in the Government service is under consideration, and the position of the private secretary referred to, with that of other men of similar experience, will be governed by the decision on the general question.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: The ship, as I have stated, sails under the flag of the French Government, and I do not think it would be possible for us to take action in the way that my hon. Friend suggests.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I am very glad to have that information. Perhaps my hon. and gallant Friend will communicate with the hon. Member for Acton.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I should require notice of that question. The Central Committee, as my hon. Friend knows, acts very largely within its own sphere at its own discretion. It has a large number of people on it, but whether, in the special informal inquiry which is taking place, merchants will be represented, I cannot say. If my hon. Friend would like special information, perhaps he will put down a question.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I think it is obvious that these merchants perform an invaluable function which no one else could perform, and I cannot conceive that any Committee would report in any other sense.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: We shall see the advantage of the conference when its results are put before us. I do not think it would have been practicable, if the Central Committee wished to hold this inquiry, to put any obstacle in the way.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: The answer is in the negative. It is, however, the fact that, at the request of the Chairman of the Central Committee established under the Profiteering Acts, a conference is being held by certain members of the Committee to inquire into the subject of the multiplication of transactions in the distribution of commodities.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the BOARD of TRADE (Sir P. Lloyd-Greame)
: According to information collected by the Chamber of Shipping of the United Kingdom, the number of ships laid up in the United Kingdom at the end of January was 600, representing 2,250,000 tons deadweight, and 9·2 per cent, of the national tonnage. No figures are available for the earlier dates or for East Coast ports in particular.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I think a good many other considerations have to be taken into account.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I do not know what my hon. Friend means by making inquiries. If any such offer has been made I think it would have come direct.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I am very much more anxious to see what can be done in this country to assist our own trade with our own resources, and I think that we had better confine our attention to that and try to get something done rattier than to go further afield with a roving commission.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: My hon. Friend must wait and see.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: That is one side of the proposition which is self-evident. Another side was dealt with by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Shipping a few days ago.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: The "Pas de Calais" is 22 years old and sails under the French regulations, which, under an arrangement made some years ago with the French Government, were recognised as being substantially equivalent to our own. I will make inquiries about the particular points to which my hon. Friend refers, and will communicate with him later.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I have been asked to reply. I am not aware of any foreign governments or banks having intimated their willingness to participate in the guaranteeing of credits.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: Most certainly the list which is going to be published is going to be the list which is issued to the Customs. I again undertake that the list when complete will be issued to everyone concerned, and there will be only one list in operation.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: A provisional list of commodities covered by the Dye-stuffs (Import Regulation) Act was furnished to the Customs for their guidance pending the preparation of a full and detailed list in consultation with the Licensing Committee. This list has now been completed and is in the hands of the printers, and will be generally available shortly. I do not think that any appreciable amount of inconvenience has been caused to importers by the slight delay which has occurred, as all inquiries as to whether any particular commodity is or is not included have been answered immediately.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: The list, I hope, will be published as soon as it comes from the printers. The final judge is, I think, the Law Courts.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I should like to safeguard myself on one point. It is possible that there are certain chemicals which come in under one name and it is very easy to call them by an entirely new name and sell them as the same chemicals. It would be obviously impossible to allow the Act to be evaded by a mere subterfuge of that kind.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: It is the most complete list it is possible to prepare, and the delay has been due to the desire of the Licensing Committee to make it as complete as possible.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I understand from the Dyestuffs Advisory Licensing Committee that the applicants in the case referred to are being informed that, if they can satisfy the Committee that the consignment is of B.P. quality and is to be used solely for medicinal purposes, and will undertake to produce proof, if required later, that it has been so used, the Committee will be prepared to reconsider their decision.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
521: No, I do not think that is the case. I think persons may have been told it will facilitate the granting of licences if it is clear that they are ordered for people who require them,
521Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: No such decision as that referred to in the first part of the question has been arrived at. The remaining parts of the question therefore do not arise.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: The Act is very much in operation, and I hope that people who have knowledge of infringements of it will not go to sleep, but will bring it to the proper quarter.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: No, Sir; I am not aware of that. I shall be very glad if my hon. and gallant Friend will send me particulars. That appears to me to be clearly an infringement of the existing Merchandise Marks Regulations, and I shall be glad to have information about it.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: The aggregate value of imports of all articles consigned from Germany to this country in the third quarter of 1920 was £8,743,000, and in the fourth quarter of 1920, £10,494,000. I will have a statement covering the more important increases published in the OFFICIAL REPORT. Imports from Germany have doubtless contributed to some extent to the depression of the labour market in this country.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: My hon. and gallant Friend knows the statement which has been made by the Prime Minister in this House, and the statement contained in the King's Speech.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I am not sure whether my hon. and gallant Friend is correct in saying that the figure is one-fourth. I have not detailed figures on that point, but I think there is no doubt whatever that they can be imported into this country at considerably less than the price at which they can be manufactured here.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: The number of cycles (other than motor cycles) registered during the year 1920 as imported into the United Kingdom, consigned from Germany, was 1,627. The value of these, consignments was £7,081. I regret that I am unable to give figures as to labour costs.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I have been asked to take this question, and, in reply, would refer the hon. and gallant Member to the answer I gave on the 17th February to the Member for West Derbyshire as to the action proposed to be taken to remove any doubt as to the effect of this part of the Agriculture Act.Lieut.-Colonel Sir ROBERT SANDERS (Lord of the Treasury)
: Yes, Sir. An Order has been issued modifying the Swine Fever (Movement from Ireland) Order of 1904, which will enable Irish traders to obtain from an inspector of the Irish Department of Agriculture licences for the admission of swine to slaughterhouses in Great Britain. The licence, which must accompany the swine, must be countersigned by the Ministry's inspector at the port of landing.Sir R. SANDERS
: So far as can be ascertained at present, the Ministry has had no correspondence with the Seascale Parish Council or the Cumberland County Council regarding this matter since 13th May last, and immediate inquiry will be made by one of the Ministry's Commissioners and the result communicated to the hon. Member.Sir R. SANDERS
: I am not aware of that.Sir R. SANDERS
550: The question of the effect upon fisheries of the escape of oil from oil-carrying and oil-burning vessels has for some time engaged the close attention of the Ministry. I do not think the occasion has arisen for the appointment
550Sir R. SANDERS
: The matter was very fully debated and settled by the House as recently as 18 months ago, and it is not proposed to interfere with the arrangement then made.Mr. BALDWIN
: His Majesty's Government are not prepared to re-open the settlement of this question embodied in the Old Age Pensions Act passed in December, 1919.Mr. BALDWIN
548: I have been
548The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Baldwin)
: This Regulation was regarded as a temporary arrangement, and I had no complaint until I saw my hon. Friend's question. This is applicable to all alike, and it would be rather difficult to make such a discrimination as he desires.Mr. BALDWIN
: I will look into that.Mr. BALDWIN
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. T. P. O'CONNOR
79. 551 asked the Minister of Agriculture whether he is aware that on the 8th January, 1920, Seascale Parish
551Mr. CAPE
19.  asked the Minister of Transport whether authority has been given to the several authorities responsible for the collection of the motor-vehicle tax to repay the 25 per cent, allowance in respect of pre-1913 engines; and when the claims which have been made for a refund on this account will be met?Mr. INSKIP
: Will application have to be made to the Ministry of Transport or a local authority such as the London County Council?Mr. INSKIP
20.  asked the Minister of Transport whether any person has been employed on behalf of or assisted by the Ministry of Transport to write for publication in the press articles representing, the views of the Ministry with regard to the claims and future of the railway companies, or generally with regard to the railway position?Mr. INSKIP
: Will the right hon. Gentleman give an assurance that the statements that appeared in the Press have not been inspired—I do not use that word in any narrow sense—by the Ministry of Transport?Mr. INSKIP
59.  asked the Minister of Transport whether he is aware that public notice has been given to close on Sundays the railway station at Gildersome, on the Great Northern Railway, between Leeds and Bradford, to take effect at an early date; and whether, having regard to the inconvenience which will be caused to many people over a wide area, he will make inquiries into the circumstances, with a view to existing travelling facilities being maintained, and meanwhile take steps to suspend the operation of the order while the matter is securing the attention of his Department?Mr. MYERS
34.  asked the Prime Minister if it is proposed to proceed with the Factories and Workshops (Bake-houses) Bill this Session.Mr. MYERS
44.  asked the Prime Minister whether Bulgaria has made any claim, direct or indirect, to be heard before the coming conference in London on Turkey?Mr. FORREST
60.  asked the Minister of Transport whether his attention has been called to the uneasiness felt in East Yorkshire by the threatened termination of competition between the railway systems in that region; and whether he will in the coming Bill ensure that no district hitherto provided with adequate facilities suffers in future in this respect?Mr. FORREST
6.  asked the President of the Board of Trade if he can supply the House with any figures showing the amount of tonnage registered at East Coast ports which is now laid up, and also the similar figure for six months ago and one year ago?Mr. FORREST
: I shall be glad to consider any schemes which those interested in the industry can bring forward for working it more economically.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: I am aware of the unfortunate position in Cornwall as stated by the hon. Member. The matter has had my careful consideration, but I fear that no action which it is within my power to take is likely to help the industry to recover. The position is due to economic factors, and revival depends upon an improvement in the price of tin (which is now approximately what it was before the War) or upon reduction of costs of production, or both.The SECRETARY for MINES (Mr. Bridgeman)
: I am aware we have lost some of our best markets in coal. That is due to the bad output last year.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
534: The only circular of this nature of which I am aware is one issued by the Coal Merchants' Federation last November. The circular was issued as a result of a suggestion made by the Department to the chairman of
534Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: The financial arrangements under the Coal Mines (Emergency) Act, 1920, remain in force, but it is intended to ask Parliament to terminate those arrangements at the earliest practicable date. I hope to be in a position shortly to make a full statement on this subject. Coal is scheduled under the Profiteering Act, and domestic consumers will have the protection of the Profiteering Tribunals against any rise in price not justified by the costs of production, transport and handling. I would draw attention to the scheme of prices for the Metropolitan area approved by the Board of Trade under the Profiteering Act.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
33.  asked the Prime Minister whether the Russian Supreme Economic Council has decided to open the Grozny and Baku oilfields to concessionaires; whether European oil companies have already put in bids for concessions in these districts; and whether England would be in a particularly favourable position for the supply of machinery for these undertakings if the Russian trade agreement had been signed?Mr. JOHN
: Will the result of this inquiry be published, or will it be suppressed?Captain REDMOND
80.  asked the Minister for Agriculture if he will issue immediate instructions to his Department to revert to the old order for the movement of swine from Ireland to Great Britain, whereby swine may be booked under licence from the Irish Department of Agriculture to licensed lairages or slaughter-houses in Great Britain for immediate slaughter, so as to save senders the trouble of procuring a second licence at the port of landing in Great Britain and consequent delay and inconvenience to trade?Captain REDMOND
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say who will get the benefit of the reduction of railway servants' wages in consequence of the reduction in the cost of living?Mr. W. THORNE
540: The responsibility for expenditure in Mesopotamia and Palestine is about to be transferred from the Departments hitherto dealing with these countries to the Colonial Office. It is clearly impossible for me to give an estimate of the annual cost involved in the acceptance of the Mandates until I have had an oppor-
540The SECRETARY of STATE for the COLONIES (Mr. Churchill)
: I do not think that there will be any difficulty in the matter. I am entirely in the hands of the House. I should be glad of an opportunity of discussing the matter. So far as I am concerned I will facilitate any debate that may be brought on under the regular rules of Parliamentary procedure. I do not think that there is any difficulty in discussing the matter of a single office puts down a Vote for the whole field of expenditure. At present the House is quite unable to obtain a clear idea of what is the total cost involved. I agree entirely with the hon. Member opposite in thinking that there should be one Vote showing clearly what we are paying which can be criticised and scrutinised by the House of Commons and put forward on the authority of some individual Minister who takes full responsibility for defending the policy of the Government. I should have thought that that would be a great gain.Mr. CHURCHILL
: As the composition and numbers of conference delegations and the duration of the conference are not fully known at the present time, it is not possible at this moment to estimate the cost of the forthcoming conferences. With reference to the second part of the question, I beg to refer the hon. Member to the answer which I gave on Thursday last to a similar question by the hon. Member for Thanet.The FIRST COMMISSIONER of WORKS (Sir Alfred Mond)
14. 535 asked the President of the Board of Trade whether his attention has been called to the agreement,
535Mr. HIGHAM
: I am aware that various localities entertain some anxiety as to the effect upon their districts of the proposals for grouping the railway companies. I hope in the discussion which will arise on the Bill to be introduced to be able to show that these fears are not well founded. I am in close consultation with traders on the subject.Sir E. GEDDES
: If my hon. and gallant Friend desires to imply by the terms of his question that the Departmental Committee presided over by Lord Colwyn, which included five Members of this hon House, impartially selected, the President of the Federation of British Industries, and a representative of the Treasury, was not a competent and impartial tribunal, I must respectfully but strenuously dissent from his view. I cannot doubt that the unanimous report of a body so constituted is entitled to, and will receive, public confidence. A perusal of the Report with its Appendices and of the Minutes of evidence tendered will show that the Committee were placed in possession of the necessary material and documents to enable them to form a judgment, and I do not think any useful purpose would be served by setting up some other Committee to traverse the same ground. In so far as matters may ultimately remain in dispute between the Government and the railway companies concerned, the prescribed tribunal for settling the same is the Railway and Canal Commission. I would remind my hon. and gallant Friend that there are 114 railway companies who have rights in the matter, and up to the present there is no representative body entitled to negotiate on their behalf.Sir E. GEDDES
: I do not know. I am afraid I do not read all the reports.Sir E. GEDDES
: No.Sir E. GEDDES
: The Thames Conservancy Bill is a Private Bill on which I shall, in due course, report to the Committee. The Bill is now being examined, and I fear that I cannot anticipate the Report. I am aware that a number of petitions have been lodged against the Bill, and these will no doubt be considered by the Committee.Sir E. GEDDES
: It is not proposed to make any fresh regulations affecting the use or construction of motor chars-à-banc in particular in the near future. As my Noble Friend is aware, the Minister of Transport has certain powers under Section 7 (4) of the Roads Act, 1920, to prohibit or restrict the use of vehicles of any specified class on any specified highway, on the application of the County Council.Sir E. GEDDES
: A special application will have to be made in each case.Sir E. GEDDES
: I shall do whatever I am obliged to do by law, and with every consideration for my Noble and gallant Friend.Sir E. GEDDES
: The taxpayer. As to the point raised by my hon. Friend (Sir W. Davison), the matter is so controversial that he had better leave it to be dealt with in the Bill, and not by question and answer.Sir E. GEDDES
: These are matters of absolutely prime importance to the country, and it would be quite impossible for me to give any such undertaking. The House will decide what is to be done with the railways.Sir E. GEDDES
: I think before long. I may explain that the figures which are published are not the actual balance of operations of the year or month. They include back payments dating right back to 1914—payments which ought to have been made in 1914—so that no accurate information as to how the railways are operating can be obtained from the figures.Sir E. GEDDES
: The final figures for December, 1920, are not yet available. The "net receipts" of the controlled railway companies of the United Kingdom in 1913, which are the basis of the guarantee, amounted to £47,400,000. The war-time arrangements between the railway undertakings and the Government terminate on the 14th August next, but the companies are pressing for an extension of the period. The future of railways, as indicated in His Majesty's Speech from the Throne, will be the subject of legislative proposals in this Session.Sir E. GEDDES
: The wages bill of the station staff employed on Sundays at this station alone is in excess of the total receipts which only amount to slightly over £1 per Sunday on the average. In view of the necessity for economy at the present time, I consider the action taken by the Great Northern Railway to be justified.Sir E. GEDDES
: I think all that information will be obtainable from the Paper which I have laid.Sir E. GEDDES
: I must refer the hon. Member to the answer which I gave to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Derby, on the 17th instant. I have laid the papers for the information of hon. Members and they are available, I understand, at the Vote Office.Sir E. GEDDES
: This siding is a private one; other persons desiring to use it would need to negotiate with the owners of the siding and with the Great Eastern Railway Company.Sir E. GEDDES
: Using the word in its widest sense, they have not.Sir E. GEDDES
528: It will be convenient to answer these questions together. Railways stocks have shared in the general depreciation of capital values consequent upon the War, and I do not agree that loss from this cause which railway shareholders have suffered is in any way due to their War-time agreements with the Government. No section of the community can claim to be protected against the effect of general economic changes due to the War, and the railways are fortunate in having enjoyed a guaranteed income based on the most prosperous year in their history, together with upkeep of their property at the same high standard of 1913, the companies being relieved by the community as no other industry has been relieved from all additional costs due to rise in prices during the years of guarantee. This guarantee, which was given in 1916 and preceding years, does nut expire until the 15th August next.528Sir E. GEDDES
: No person is or has been employed by the Ministry to write articles for publication, and I have no funds for the purpose. Writers and press representatives are given information which is available for publication without discrimination, and to that extent are assisted. It is most desirable that the vital concern of the taxpayer and community in these agreements should be thoroughly appreciated, and it is their interest which I serve and their point of view alone which I take.Sir E. GEDDES
: No, the Act does not permit that.Sir E. GEDDES
: To the London County Council.Sir E. GEDDES
: Authority has recently been given to councils to make these refunds direct should they so desire. These arrangements will, I think, meet the general convenience. Some thousands of claims have already been paid directly by the Ministry. All claims received in the Ministry by the 12th instant have now been paid except in cases where questions have arisen as to the correctness of the claim. Any delay which has occurred in issue of licence cards and granting of refunds is due to additional work upon the incidence of this form of taxation, and this will not recur.The MINISTER of TRANSPORT (Sir Eric Geddes)
68.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he is aware that the Austrian Government threatens to appropriate for the use of ex-Finance Minister Bilinski the furnished flat at Vienna owned by Mr. Robert Dunlop, of the Manchester University, and at present tenanted by the chaplain to the British Legation; whether the British Consul has refused to protest against such appropriation, in spite of appeals made to him by Mr. Dunlop; what are the view of the Legation on this matter; and whether he will take steps to safeguard Mr. Dunlop's interests?Lieut.-Colonel HURST
70.  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he can inform the House as to the number of continental nations which now issue a visa on passports holding good for 12 months?Sir H. BRITTAIN
40.  asked the Prime Minister whether, if the Colonial Office is to continue to be the link between Great Britain and the British Dominions, he will consider an alteration in the name of that Department to make it more in consonance with the wishes of very many of His Majesty's subjects in our self-governing sister nations?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Will my hon. and gallant Friend consider the suggestion that at any rate this somewhat ancient boat be not asked to carry the very heavy passenger service which crosses the Channel?Sir H. BRITTAIN
8.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether he can inform the House as to the age of the French packet boat "Pas de Calais," which carries passengers between Dover and Calais; and what is the number of persons her lifeboats would accommodate as compared with the maximum number of persons carried?Sir H. BRITTAIN
43.  asked the Prime Minister whether women now temporarily employed in the Civil Service and desiring to remain at their posts are required to pass a qualifying examination in such elementary subjects as English, arithmetic, and general knowledge; and, if so, whether women, who are graduates of a British or Irish university and whose services have been recognised as satisfactory, and who wish to continue in their present occupation, might be exceptionally exempted from the necessity of passing such examination?Sir P. MAGNUS
: May not men and women be exempt from this small competitive examination if they have already taken a degree in a university?Sir P. MAGNUS
: Has the right hon. Gentleman realised that all the occupations that are open to women by their enfranchisement are optional, whereas service on juries is exceptionally obligatory, and in that respect it is comparable only with military service which has not yet been made obligatory upon women, even in time of war?Sir P. MAGNUS
1.  asked the President of the Board of Trade why the list of prohibited goods under the Dye-stuffs Act is issued secretly to the Customs authorities but withheld from the traders, who are greatly incommoded thereby?Sir WILLIAM BULL
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say whether the 25 per cent. allowance on pre-1913 engines will be paid automatically to all those who have stated on their application for a licence that the engine of their car was manufactured prior to 1913, or whether another special application for this rebate will have to be made to the local authority?Sir W. DAVISON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that there is a depreciation of railway securities since 1914 of something between £480,000,000 and £500,000,000, and that since the Armistice there has been a fall of from 20 to 30 points in the stocks of many railways? Does he not think it right to give an assurance that dividends will be guaranteed until a reasonable time after the railway companies have received their property back, so that they can put their house in order after the Government administration?Sir W. DAVISON
54.  asked the Minister of Transport whether he is aware of the anxiety and alarm prevailing among all those who have money invested in the great railway undertakings of the country consequent on the continued decrease in the value of their property caused by the uncertainty as to future Government action; and whether he can make any statement which will relieve such uncertainty and stop the depreciation in value of the property of a body of citizens who, through no fault of their own, have suffered heavy losses by reason of their property having been taken over by the Government?Sir W. DAVISON
: I am asking only whether some guarantee will be given them for a little time after the railways are handed back. Without making suggestions as to whether it is for their benefit or not, will they have their dividends guaranteed?Sir W. DAVISON
: Will women who have given satisfactory service during the War be exempt from competition of young women who are now going in for these positions?Sir W. DAVISON
77.  asked the Minister of Agriculture whether, in view of the dependence of large numbers of the people of this country on an adequate supply of fish for food, he will appoint a special committee to consider and report as to the alleged destruction of fish and sea life by reason of the use of oil fuel in steamships; and whether adequate precautions are taken to prevent the leakage of oil from such vessels?Sir W. DAVISON
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that there are coastal areas polluted with oil from these oil-burning and oil-using ships, and will he see that proper appliances are used in these ships to prevent unnecessary escape of oil?Sir W. DAVISON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman give an assurance that he will give ample notice of any regulations that he proposes to make under the Order, so that all concerned may know in plenty of time?Viscount CURZON
66.  asked the Minister of Transport whether the Ministry of Transport propose to make any fresh regulation affecting the use or construction of motor- chars-à-banc before the commencement of the coming season; and, if so, whether Parliament will have an opportunity of considering them before they are finally approved.Viscount CURZON
: Docs not the Leader of the House think that the answer we have just hoard amounts to the same thing as giving the right hon. Gentleman a blank cheque for Mesopotamia? Does he not think that this ought to come before the House of Commons?Viscount CURZON
36.  asked the Prime Minister whether any estimate can be given of the annual cost to this country of the Mandates for Mesopotamia and Palestine, respectively?Viscount CURZON
: Can the right hon. Gentleman give us any idea when it will be possible to avoid shelving this problem, and when we can have a reply one way or the other?Viscount CURZON
35.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the prevailing wave of unemployment, he can yet state whether any decision has as yet been reached with reference to the Channel Tunnel?Captain Viscount CURZON
5.  asked the Secretary of State for War why, if an ex-temporary lieut.-colonel who, commanded a battalion in the field in France wishes to re-enter the Army, he can only do so as a second lieutenant; and will he take steps to modify the regulations in favour of the ex-temporary officer?Mr. TREVELYAN THOMSON
12 & 14. 727 asked the-Secretary of State for War (1) how many officers were employed in the War Office
727Colonel NEWMAN
: Does that mean that we cannot afford any greater reduction in the near future?Colonel NEWMAN
13.  asked the Secretary of State for War how many temporary officers are still employed in the War Office or in the commands; and when is it proposed to discontinue their employment?Colonel NEWMAN
17.  asked the Secretary of State for War the total number of recruits enrolled to date in the Territorial Army; and how many more are required to complete the establishment?Captain TUDOR-REES
: Is it not possible to register these lorries and use them in case of emergency without any subsidy?Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: Does the right hon. Gentleman's Department intend to differentiate between the clasps awarded to staff officers and those awarded to regimental officers?Captain TERRELL
3.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he is aware that numerous complaints have been made against the Peruvian Government by intending emigrants for non compliance with agreements entered into by their agent; whether he will endeavour to obtain compensation for the following very hard cases, who, on the faith of an agreement, sold their homes and, after several postponements, were finally informed that they could not be taken, Messrs. Blythe, Gardner, and Tingey, all residing at Tottenham?Major MALONE
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. His Majesty's Minister at Lima has already been instructed to bring this matter to the notice of the Peruvian Government and to ascertain whether they are prepared to accept responsibility for the losses incurred in such cases as those mentioned.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I regret to state that one of the naval prisoners from Baku died in England not long after his repatriation, but I am not in a position to state the cause of his death, as the report which has been called for from his doctor has not yet come to hand. As regards the second part of the question, His Majesty's representative at Tiflis reported that the prisoners were all in good health on arrival there from Azerbaijan. I sympathise with the view expressed in the last part of the question, but I do not think that any useful purpose would be served by making the suggested pronouncement.Mr. HARMSWORTH
 [HON. MEMBERS: "Order, order!"] It is all right; I am standing up, too. May I ask the right hon. Gentleman whether other criminals, where a conflict of evidence arises, can be given the benefit of the doubt in the same way as these gentlemen? [HON. MEMBERS: "They always do!"]rose.Mr. J. JONES
: Will the right hon. Gentleman undertake to suppress the "Daily Herald?"Captain TERRELL
43.  asked the Postmaster-General whether he can give the approximate number of telephone calls with which he expects the telephone service to deal every year under his proposed universal measured rate; how many extra officials will be necessary for the registering and collection of charges; and what will be the annual cost of their salaries?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
750: Does the right hon. Gentleman think that with a staff of 100 to 150 he will be able to ensure an accurate presenting of accounts and an avoidance of the present very prevalent
750Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say, in connection with the figure of 800,000,000 calls, what is the present number of cases dealt with and for what reduction allowance is made?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
42.  asked the Postmaster-General whether he is aware that a parcel, No. 4, posted at Middlesbrough General Post Office on 12th January, 1920, addressed to the Bureau of Standards, Washington, had still not been delivered, nor had any compensation been paid, neither had any satisfactory reply been received by the senders from the secretary of the General Post Office, notwithstanding that an extra sum had been charged by the Post Office above that for the official service, which was presumably for protection beyond that which the latter afforded, and that apparently nothing had been done for this?Mr. T. THOMSON
: Does the right hon. Gentleman say that, although there has been a delay of over a year, no undue delay has taken place, and, seeing that an extra sum was charged for insuring this parcel, why is not some return made for this extra sum?Mr. THOMSON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say whether, where a local authority and its teachers have agreed upon a scale under the original Burnham Report, the Board will confirm the agreement reached?Mr. T. THOMSON
: With regard to that correspondence, does the right hon. Gentleman, seek to vary the original finding of the Burnham Report in the correspondence?Mr. THOMSON
52.  asked the Lord Privy Seal whether he is aware of the widespread concern at the Government failure to carry out the conventions of the Washington Labour Conference; and if he can give a day for the consideration of the question in all its bearings?Mr. BARNES
: It is proposed to ask the House to reappoint the Select Committee; on National Expenditure.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
54. 758 asked the Lord Privy Seal whether the attention of the Government has been called to the terms of the note addressed by M T758Lieut.-Colonel Sir F. HALL
: May we assume that there is no truth in the statement referred to in the last part of this question?Sir F. HALL
: I will have the answers to these questions published in the OFFICIAL REPORT.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I understand the hon. Member to suggest that where more than one person in a home is in receipt of income, the total income coming into that particular home should not be charged with Income Tax except so far as it is in excess of the aggregate amount of the Income Tax allowance and deductions to which the recipients are individually entitled. Proposals of this nature for determining liability to Income Tax on what is known as the "family basis" were considered by the Royal Commission on the Income Tax, but were definitely rejected in favour of the system of Income Tax graduation and allowances, which was embodied in the Finance Act of last year. In these circumstances, I do not see my way to adopt the hon. Member's suggestion.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: No, I cannot make special exceptions in favour of particular cases. Hard cases make very bad law.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I hope to introduce the Bill at an early date, but I am not able to name a day.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: No, I shall ask the House to send it upstairs. That is the only hope of passing it. If the House treats it as a contentious measure it will not be proceeded with.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I have not yet approved the Bill myself, and I cannot yet say exactly what it will contain, but it will deal certainly with some Income Tax affairs, probably with matters of administration, and with the three years' average, and will probably contain some provisions in connection with Customs and Excise, and various minor alterations of the law, but my hon. and gallant Friend had better wait and see. I will present it to the House as early as I can, but, as I say, the House must understand that if it is to be treated as a contentious measure, I cannot possibly hope to make progress with it this Session.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
762: My hon. Friend's question is based upon a common misapprehension of the facts. Before the entry of the United States into the War, the British and French Governments raised a loan of $500,000,000 in the New York market on their joint and several guarantee. This loan was paid off in equal shares by the two Governments last autumn. No loans were made by the United States Government till after the entry of the United States into the War, and no loans made by the United States Government to Allied Governments were ever guaranteed by us.762Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: That is entirely an erroneous impression. The United States made loans to France and to Italy as well as to ourselves, and, as I have said, have neither sought nor received any guarantee from us of any loan they made, except, of course, our obligations for the loans that we ourselves accepted from them.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I think if we had not had to meet any calls for assistance from our Allies it would have been unnecessary for us to ask assistance from the United States Government.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say what 2–26ths will amount to in money, and further whether there will be a Supplementary Estimate brought forward during the current year?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Will there be a further Supplementary Estimate?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: If that point was raised and discussed at great length, surely they must have come to some conclusion, or when are they going to come to some conclusion?Colonel C. LOWTHER
: Will the right hon. Gentleman undertake to see that the working men's wives are appointed on any committee to inquire into the cost of living?Mr. J. JONES
: Is it not a fallacy to look on this matter, as the question does, as a cost to the State? Is it not rather a remission of a forced levy which would otherwise have been made on the British farmer for cheap bread?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that there has been already an informal departmental inquiry into this matter?Sir THOMAS POLSON
: You will be in then.Mr. J. JONES
: I understand this question really is one which principally affects the private Member. The private Member is asked to surrender his time until Easter, in order to facilitate Government business, and principally finance. Some of us on this Bench would be the last to oppose such a request of the Government, because we feel that the more adequate and full the discussions on finance the better it is for the business of the country generally. But I think we are entitled to ask whether, in the event of our compliance with that request, they will give us a practical assurance that at the end of the Session we shall not have turned upon us a flood of legislation which we shall be called upon to discuss at very short notice, because if that indeed were the case it would seem that our sacrifice at present would be of little use. It is becoming rather sad to think that the argument in support of every abnormal procedure is based upon the fact that we are living in abnormal times. We might almost say that we are living in normal times of abnormality. I believe most private Members will support the Government in their demand, but I hope they will see their way not to rush us into ill-digested legislation towards the end of the Session.Major C. LOWTHER
827826And keep us in our proper stations.""God bless the Boss and his relations;825: To those of us who are new Members of the House it is very interesting to listen to the older Members giving us lectures on constitutional procedure. In so far as we happen not to know, it is very desirable sometimes to get to know from the Members who do know. I was led to understand that when a Member was elected to this House he had certain constitutional rights guaranteed him, because he represented a portion of the population of Great Britain. In spite of the opinions expressed by some hon. Members I suggest that the constitutional history of Great Britain owes as much to the efforts of private Members as to the efforts of any of those Ministers who have drawn salaries and occupied offices under the Crown. I would also remind some hon. Members that the only protection the Member has is the allocation of Parliamentary time for the discussion of public questions. We who represent the Labour party are interested in certain problems which we suggest are the most important problems that ever affected the lives of the people we represent. A large proportion of the population to-day is suffering not merely from unemployment, but from under-employment. Wherever we go in any great industrial centre we are asked questions not as to the financial affairs or the administration of individual Departments, but what we are going to do about the unemployed, about Ireland, about matters affecting the immediate personal interests of the people we represent.827826And keep us in our proper stations.""God bless the Boss and his relations;825Mr. J. JONES
: You can move an Amendment.Mr. J. JONES
: Surely that has nothing to do with private Members' time.Captain S. WILSON
: How many of them were destroyed?Lieut-Colonel J. WARD
: The House generally will appreciate the action of the Chief Secretary, but I am sure they will regret that he did not avail himself of a bigger House to make his apology. At the same time, now that the matter is raised, I hope his colleagues will observe what he has stated to-night in that frank, open way, and will not say to those who are appealing for support in election addresses something which has now been repudiated by the Chief Secretary. In other words, I hope that Cabinet Ministers seeking re-election will not restate what the right hon. Gentleman has practically apologised for to-night.Mr. THOMAS
: It is somewhat ominous that the very first week that the "Weekly Summary" has been placed in the hands of Members of this House the Chief Secretary has had to make an explanation and to express regret. I hope, that that will be a warning to the editors of such a paper.Mr. KELLY
: I beg to thank the right hon. Gentleman, and to ask leave to withdraw the Motion.Captain LOSEBY
873872: That I am unable to say. I know that the order was given. No general countermanding order was given. They may have been or they may not have been. I ought to have explained to the House that at that particular meeting, when the order was given, there was an immediate hubbub by the sub-
873872Captain LOSEBY
867866865"Convened by Mr. Sutton and attended by the heads of ledger groups and ledger investigators. After a preliminary discussion as to the reason of the meeting, Mr. Sutton made reference to the manner in which the accounts were to be settled, and gave instructions that all working papers were to be destroyed. He then gave his reason for the order, which was that Exchequer and Audit would be unable to ascertain and find out how the settlements were arrived at. After Mr. Sutton's order, regarding the working papers was given, a certain Mr. de Jersey at the meeting made the remark: 'Do you want us all put in gaol?' Considerable discussion followed, wherein we were given to under-
865"I, Thomas Jones, of 17, Bloomsbury Square, in the County of London, Civil Servant, temporarily employed in the ledger accounts Department of the Ministry of Munitions, do solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: I attended a meeting at the latter end of October or early in November"—864: I beg to move, "That this House do now adjourn."867866865"Convened by Mr. Sutton and attended by the heads of ledger groups and ledger investigators. After a preliminary discussion as to the reason of the meeting, Mr. Sutton made reference to the manner in which the accounts were to be settled, and gave instructions that all working papers were to be destroyed. He then gave his reason for the order, which was that Exchequer and Audit would be unable to ascertain and find out how the settlements were arrived at. After Mr. Sutton's order, regarding the working papers was given, a certain Mr. de Jersey at the meeting made the remark: 'Do you want us all put in gaol?' Considerable discussion followed, wherein we were given to under-
865"I, Thomas Jones, of 17, Bloomsbury Square, in the County of London, Civil Servant, temporarily employed in the ledger accounts Department of the Ministry of Munitions, do solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: I attended a meeting at the latter end of October or early in November"—864Captain LOSEBY
869868: I will explain the reason why I felt it was of vital importance that the matter should not go before this particular Committee. For the names of most of the Committee I have the most complete respect. The Committee were to be: The Parliamentary Secretary (Chairman), Mr. Barrie, the Joint Secretary to the Ministry, the Legal Secretary to the Ministry, the Assistant Secretary to the Ministry and the Secre-
869868Captain LOSEBY
871870: It is the body that in fact arranged with the contractor in a vast number of cases the exact terms upon which the settlement would be made, and signed in their own names the official agreement. I would go further, and I would tell the Parliamentary Secretary something else, that although this particular committee of three was allowed to settle a vast number of accounts, no fewer than 15 to 20 individuals and subordinates settled those accounts practically alone; and I will give the Parliamentary Secretary particulars of them, and they were countersigned by some other subordinate. What, in fact, would the effect be of the destruction of such documents? I repeat, with a full sense of responsibility and unhesitatingly, that they are a kind of supplementary book. This is my suggestion: First of all, that these documents are unusual
871870Captain LOSEBY
770: In view of the answer of the right hon. Gentleman just given, I beg leave to ask to move the Adjournment of the House in order to call attention to a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, "an order given by a highly-placed official of the Ministry of Munitions to accounts investigators and head of ledger depart-
770Captain LOSEBY
: Does my right hon. Friend realise that I stated that in my presence and in the presence of the Minister and the Parliamentary Secretary, and other highly paid officials, this man acknowledged that he had given orders to conceal these vital documents?Captain LOSEBY
768 asked the Leader of the House whether a large proportion of the outstanding accounts with contractors to the Ministry of Munitions have been and are now being dealt with by a body of three highly-placed officials who have been responsible for their final settlement subject to an independent investigation by a specially appointed official, and audit by the Exchequer and Audit Department of the Treasury; whether these settlements involve many millions; whether on a recent occasion the head of the said highly-placed officials called together the heads
768by Private NoticeCaptain LOSEBY
: May I ask the right hon. Gentleman if he realises that with a full sense of responsibility I am alleging the most daring attempt to destroy vital public documents; is he aware that these working papers to which I refer are in fact the sole records of certain transactions which ought to have been, although they in fact were not, entered upon the books, and is he aware that I have in my possession many sworn affidavits from people who were actually present when the order to destroy them was given; and is he also aware that I was present when, in the presence of the Minister of Munitions and the Parliamentary Secretary, this man acknowledged he had given the order to conceal the papers from the Exchequer and Audit Department, and in view of these facts does the right hon. Gentleman not realise that it is quite impossible for me to produce my evidence except before a transparently impartial tribunal?Captain LOSEBY
: Cannot the War Office do anything to put a stop to this very inequitable differentiation in the treatment of officers on service in Mesopotamia?Sir C. YATE
24.  asked the Financial Secretary to the War Office what steps have been taken to put a stop to the deduction of English Income Tax from the pay of officers serving in Mesopotamia who are paid in rupees?Colonel Sir C. YATE
25.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the War Office if he is aware that tailors are still charging officers more than 10 guineas for a khaki twillette tunic for Eastern service and £4 10s. for a pair of trousers; and what steps he proposes to take to cheapen the cost of officers' uniform in these respects?Colonel Sir CHARLES YATE
: Can any steps be taken against these tailors who are charging exorbitant prices?Sir C. YATE
: Before the right hon. Gentleman answers that question, and in view of the fact that fictitious charges are almost daily made against officers of the Crown, will the Government take steps to discover who is responsible for these charges, because a great deal of capital is being made out of them?Colonel CLAUDE LOWTHER
28.  asked the Home Secretary what were the figures of entry of male and female juvenile offenders into the Borstal institutions in England and Wales in 1918, 1919, and 1920; and whether, seeing that in the opinion of the Committees of those institutions, from evidence of the police courts, there is every reason to believe that criminal ideas are inculcated into the minds of children by the character of some films that now pass the Censorship Committee, the Home Office will obtain reports from prison authorities and police court magistrates in London and the provinces as to what their opinion is of the present censorship of cinema films?Major GLYN
: Has any security been taken from that country for the advances which have been made?Colonel GREIG
: Have not these payments and credits been very much in the nature of doles or charity, and when does the Government expect to reach, with its Allies, some conclusion as to a settled policy of rehabilitating the country?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Is there any hope of some policy being arrived at soon in view of the length of time since the Armistice?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
2. 734 asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs if he can state the present
734Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
738: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the administration of martial law at that date in Ireland has been very gravely criticized
738Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Has the right hon. Gentleman heard of the court-martial on the editor and proprietors of the "Freeman's Journal," and the criticisms passed upon it there, and the action of the Government in overriding the findings?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: May I ask if it is not a fact that General Crozier received a telegram from these 30 men that they were returning on orders, and that he thereupon resigned; if this is not the case, why did he resign?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: May I move—Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: On a point of Order—Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Are we doing nothing?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Is the Government considering approaching the Powers mentioned on the question, with regard to a conference on the whole question of shipbuilding?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
1.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs how many Turkish prisoners of war are still held captive in Palestine and Egypt respectively; why they have not been repatriated; and what is the monthly cost of maintaining these prisoners?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Might I add one word on this matter? I have been accused in the same way of doing this sort of thing. We are all very glad the right hon. Gentleman has seen his way to make this apology. I receive almost daily communications anonymously of a publication called the "Irish Summary," which comes from Sinn Fein sources. I never accept anything that appears in those summaries without taking steps to verify it. Everything we say here is repeated abroad. This House is a sounding-board, and whatever is said on either side of the Table gets printed in larger prominence in foreign papers than in this country. I hope the right hon. Gentleman will realise that we understand that when we speak here we speak with a great sense of responsibility. The very last thing we desire to do is to weaken in any way the prestige of this country abroad. But we feel we are serving the best interests of our country in the long run in criticising what is contrary to its ancient traditions in Ireland.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: I have been asked to reply to this question. I have recently had samples of this flour examined by the Government Chemist and by the Director of the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew. I am satisfied from their reports that the flour is of good quality, and that its use does not involve any danger to public health.The MINISTER of HEALTH (Dr. Addison)
: When is it expected that the Committee will form their conclusion?Mr. E. WOOD
67.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer if he will explain why, when the cost of living has fallen 10 points, bonuses will be increased by £2,000 on 1st March under the Civil Service bonus scheme; and when these automatic increases terminate?Mr. E. HARMSWORTH
: Then I am wrong in saying the cost of living has fallen 10 points?Mr. E. HARMSWORTH
78. 765 asked the Minister of Food as to the quantity of flour stored at the Assembly Hall, Ferndale, in the month of September, 1919,
765Major MORGAN
44.  asked the Postmaster-General whether he is aware that the Drapers' Chamber of Trade approved and adopted a schedule of minimum rates of wages for shop assistants on 20th April, 1920; whether according to this schedule the appropriate rates for Tylors-town are female learners 12s. per week at 15 years, rising with six monthly increases of 2s. per week to 22s. at 17 years; juniors (female) 30s. at 18 years, rising by annual increments of 4s. to 38s. at 20 years, then by annual increments of 2s. to 54s. at 28 years; whether he is aware that rates in accordance with this schedule are being paid by good employers in the district, and are exceeded by the Co-operative Society; and whether he will re-examine the figures paid by his sub-postmasters?Major WATTS MORGAN
: Does the right hon. Gentleman remember that he promised an inquiry into this last November and that no reply has been given?Major MORGAN
: Is it not the case that valuable parcels are frequently lost by the American Post Office?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
48.  asked the Prime Minister whether any policy has yet been decided on by the Cabinet with reference to the building of capital ships, in view of the fact that the United States are now building or are about to build 700,000 tons of capital ships, and that Japan is building or is about to build nearly 300,000 tons of capital ships; whether any decision has been come to to postpone the question of laying down capital ships until after the Imperial Conference; whether there are very few slips upon which first-class capital ships can be built in this country, and that, if the order for large ships is delayed, it will mean that it will be difficult to obtain the necessary armour, guns, etc., owing to the disbandment of their expert staffs and dismantling of their factories by the armament firms; and whether he can say whether the House will be given an opportunity of discussing the general policy as regards naval strength at an early date?Lieut. - Colonel ARCHER - SHEE
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that these are figures given by a first-class American naval expert and that they were published in one of the leading newspapers?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
741: May I ask whether, in view of the fact that there was this delay of 24 hours in a letter from the police officer, and that it was
741Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Would it not be a good thing to get this cost of living figure made up by an independent committee rather than by civil servants who benefit by it themselves?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: May I ask why a question alluding to pickled herrings is not dealt with by the Minister of Food?Lieut. - Colonel ARCHER - SHEE
 rose in his place and claimed to move, "That the Question be now put."Lord EDMUND TALBOT (Joint Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury)
: May I ask why the Commandant dispensed with the services of these men?Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
830: With much that has fallen from my hon. and gallant Friend who has just sat down I agree. I agree that the guillotine and closure are almost the worst way of carrying on the business of this House. I say almost, because I think the one thing that is worse is an all-night sitting. I think an all-night sitting is a scandal and a disgrace, and a relic of barbarism which this House ought not to submit to under any circumstances or on any provocation. I agree also with my hon. and gallant Friend in hoping that the Government will not make this a permanent proposal to take away private Members' time. I am going to say a word about the Tuesday evenings, but I cannot quite agree with my right hon. Friend the Member for the City of London (Sir F. Banbury) in his view that private Members' Bills—what are called Friday Bills—are always bad. I often disagree with them; indeed, I think I probably more often disagree with them than agree with them, but I think they are a valuable institution, nevertheless, and I should be very sorry to see them abolished. I think it is of great importance that people who desire some vague reform should have an opportunity
830Lord ROBERT CECIL
892: I am glad the right hon. Gentleman has seen fit—we all expected it of him—the moment when his attention was drawn to the actual words used in this "Weekly Summary," to withdraw them and express his regret. I can-
892Lord R. CECIL
832831: You cannot move an Amendment in Committee increasing the amount, but you can, on Second Reading, move an Amendment saying that the House is not prepared to assent to the Second Reading unless the amount is increased. Therefore, the question can be raised, and even on that point I think the hon. Member is not quite right. There are all those occasions on which this particular matter of unemployment can be raised, and the same, of course, is true of Ireland. In addition to that, there is
832831Lord R. CECIL
21.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether a court-martial in Ireland has been censured by a King's Bench judge; and, if so, whether it is proposed to take any action in the matter?Major COHEN
8.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether he is aware that the metal of which the Victory medal is made tarnishes and becomes iridescent during the first few weeks of its existence; and whether, as it seems impossible to issue a satisfactory Victory medal, it would be better to abandon the idea of having such a medal altogether?Major COHEN
7.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether last summer half a million Victory medals were scrapped owing to defective workman ship; whether some millions of the war medals are being held up to be issued with the Victory medals; and whether, if this is so, he will give instructions for the war medals to be issued forthwith so that it will be possible for at least one medal to be issued in the lifetime of a recipient?Major COHEN
15.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether his attention has been drawn to a statement by Sir Alexander Prince, late Controller of the Expeditionary Force canteens, that £7,000,000, and not £2,000,000, as stated by the War Office, was paid back to troops in the shape of rebates from the Expeditionary Force canteen profits, and to the further statement by the auditors that the War Office were in error in alleging that the final balance-sheet rendered by the Expeditionary Force canteen contained no provision for losses anticipated on the realisation of the unsold stock; which of the conflicting statements is correct; and whether he will be able to make a full statement with regard to the disposal of the Expeditionary Force canteen profits?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
: Was not the balance sheet presented by the auditor certified as a final balance sheet, and why is it described now as an interim balance sheet?Major WOOD
: The auditors to whom I have directed attention in my question say they presented a final balance sheet and made full provision for the depreciation in the stock.Major WOOD
: Will the right hon. Gentleman publish the balance sheet that has been presented?Major WOOD
: Meanwhile will no money be disbursed?Major WOOD
38.  asked the Secretary for Scotland what is the cause of the delay in publishing the reports of the Game and Heather-Burning (Scotland) Committee; and when they may be expected?Major M. WOOD
: The question is quite clear. I have here the "Weekly Summary," and it states definitely that the opponents of the Government stand for the right to murder. This is the publication which is sent out by the right hon. Gentleman. It is paid for out of public funds, and it is put down here in black and white without any kind of qualification whatsoever. I want to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he ever held and still believes that the opponents of the Government stand for the right to murder.Major MACKENZIE WOOD
: I cannot accept the interpretation which is put upon it, and if it is necessary I will read the whole paragraph, and I will leave it for the House to say whether or not I am right in the interpretation which I have put upon it. It is longer than I should like to but it seems to me I am compelled to do it now. It is headed:Major WOOD
79.  asked the Minister of Food if he is aware that all the best whiskies are leaving this country on account of whisky being able to be sold for export at 32s. per gallon and only at 16s. 8d. per gallon, in bond, for consumption in the United Kingdom; and, in view of the fact that the new and less wholesome whiskies command in this country the same price as those that are more mature, thanks to the Liquor Control Board Regulations, will he take steps to rectify this evil?Major Sir KEITH FRASER
: May I send the right hon. Gentleman sufficient evidence in writing to show that the best whiskies are leaving the country, and will he take action?Sir K. FRASER
: Yes, I think so. I would remind the hon. Member that there are already 90 per cent. of the subscribers charged in this way.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: The number of telephone calls is materially affected by the existing trade depression. Making due allowance for this and for a probable reduction in the calling rate, especially of flat-rate subscribers on the introduction of the new tariff, the number of calls in 1921–22 is roughly estimated at between 800 and 850 millions. The additional staff required for registering calls and collecting charges under the new tariff is estimated to be 150 at an annual cost in salaries of £23,000.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: The approximate number of telephone calls effected in the year ended 31st March, 1920, was about 850,000,000. Of these, about 40 per cent. were made by existing flat-rate subscribers. About 50,000 of the present flat-rate users (including the £8 residence flat-rate) do not originate 2,000 calls per annum. I have no figures as to the distribution of trunk calls between different users, but it is estimated that as regards 25 per cent. of the existing trunk calls the new charge will be lower than the old.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: The cost of levelling up the wages of the transferred staff was £158,000 per annum in 1912, and the charge against the telephone accounts to meet the pension liability of the same staff was £243,000, as compared with the company's contribution to the pension fund of £13,000.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: I am having inquiry made, and will communicate with the hon. and gallant Member.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: I will inquire into that.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: No recent investigation has been made as to the cost of Press, as distinct from ordinary, telegrams, but the loss is no doubt considerable. The rates for Press telegrams were increased on 1st January, 1920, and I do not contemplate a further increase at the present moment. The rates for private wires leased to the Press and to news agencies are, however, about to be raised.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: No delay was caused by the Post Office. It was caused by the American Express Company.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: As I explained to the hon. Member last July, the parcel to which he refers was duly forwarded to New York; and there has been no delay on the part of the British Post Office in dealing with the claim. Repeated applications have been made to the American Express Company in the matter; and last month the Vice-Director General of the company in Paris stated that he was pressing the New York Office to give immediate attention to it. I hope, therefore, that the disposal of the parcel may soon be definitely ascertained.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: I think I said 850,000,000 in answer to the previous question.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: As the cost of the service will in future be based mainly upon the number of calls made, it is not possible to check the estimates of individual subscribers. Where the additional cost is heavy, it is due partly to the user being large, and partly to the advantage which the subscriber has previously enjoyed of a rate considerably below the cost of providing the service.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: In pre-War conditions the mails from London by this route arrived at Waterford 50 minutes earlier than at present, and those from Waterford arrived in London 1 hour and 38 minutes earlier. Neither the trains nor the boats are controlled by the Post Office, nor were they controlled before the War, and I am, therefore, not in a position to say whether the pre-War timing will be resumed.The POSTMASTER-GENERAL (Mr. Illingworth)
: I will make representations to the railway companies, and do what I can.Mr. ILLINGWORTH
: Is there any truth in the suggestion conveyed in this question that there is a conflict of opinion between the Commissioner of Police and the Home Secretary? If so, can we have an assurance that the right hon. Gentleman responsible to this House will maintain his own policy?Mr. LYLE-SAMUEL
: In view of the fact that reference has been made to the Debate of yesterday, may I say that in last week's edition of the "Weekly Summary" there is a statement that those opposed to the Government policy admit the right to murder. The Chief Secretary last night, with very little restraint, accused those who are at present in opposition to his policy of condoning and inciting to murder, and I should like to have from the Chief Secretary, in view of the repudiation of every Member on this side of the House of any sympathy whatsoever with murder, an apology for that statement in the "Weekly Summary." which may have escaped his own personal notice. I would like him to apologise for suggesting that we are in any way or in any degree in agreement with the policy of murder.Mr. LYLE-SAMUEL
855854853852851850: Although I am opposed to the decision of the Government to deprive private Members of these five days, yet, from the point of view which I hold in regard to fiscal matters, I can foresee at least one advantage from it. It was disclosed, in the statement of the Lord Privy Seal this afternoon, that the much adumbrated and, from the point of view of those who believe in it, long overdue Key Industries and Anti-Dumping Bill will not be brought in until after Easter. What is the spectacle which the business men of this country see before them? It is that of a Government which cannot rid itself of the idea, which came into Governmental minds during the War, that it is the business of the Government to interfere with trade. It is that of a
855854853852851850Mr. LYLE-SAMUEL
80.  asked the Minister of Food whether, in view of statements frequently made that Chinese flour held by the Government is unfit for human consumption, he is prepared to call in an impartial analyst to test the present stock held by the Ministry; and, if not, what steps he is prepared to take so that any possible danger to public health be avoided?Mr. WATERSON
: Would it not be advisable to dispense with war and remove the subsidy?Mr. WATERSON
27.  asked the Home Secretary how many licences were suppressed with compensation under the Licensing (Consolidation) Act, 1910, during the year 1920; and how many county licensing authorities have decided to impose a compensation levy under that Act for the present year?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that this Act has practically become a dead letter in many counties at the present time?Mr. WILLIAMS
: I do not think we can.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I would refer the hon. and gallant Member to the answers given by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer in reply to questions by the hon. and learned Member for York on the 4th and 18th November last. British officers serving in Mesopotamia are now paid in sterling, not in rupees. Indian Army officers are paid in rupees. Liability to British Income Tax is determined, not by the basis on which the pay is fixed, but by the service from which the pay is defrayed. Emoluments defrayed from Imperial Funds are subject to deduction of British Income Tax.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I would refer to the answer I have just given, and that is that the subsidy is under consideration.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I am not able to answer that without notice.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: If the hon. Member will put down a question, I will ascertain.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I cannot promise that, because the United Services Fund is constantly making application for money for the various schemes which it has in hand, and it would be unwise and unreasonable to retain money belonging to the United Services Fund if it is not necessary to do so.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: The whole object in appointing this entirely independent body, which does not represent either the War Office or the United Services Fund, was that they might give an unbiassed account of the position, and guide the War Office in the distribution of these moneys.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: A scheme for the subsidy of mechanical transport vehicles registered for use in the event of mobilisation is at present under consideration.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: The Committee will have the whole of these matters put before them, and when we have received their Report we will consider that.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I am informed that they made full provision for depreciation of stock which they retained to realise, but not for the stock which they handed over to the Navy and Army Canteen Board to realise.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: There was no proper certificate for the accounts. There was no ordinary and usual certificate such as is the custom with accounts. The accountants themselves made the accounts. There was no independent audit.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
730: My attention has been drawn to the statements to which the hon. and gallant Member refers. The sum of £7,000,000, I am informed, included discounts and rebates granted by the Expeditionary Force Canteens and Navy and Army Canteen Board, amounting to about £2,000,000 and £5,000,000 respectively. Perhaps I may be permitted to state that the Finance Department of the War Office has nothing to do with the finance of the two canteen organisations. When the closing of the business of the Expeditionary Force canteens was undertaken by the Navy and Army Canteen Board, the terms of the arrangement, approved by the Army Council, provided that a reserve should be made by Expeditionary Force canteens to reimburse the Navy and Army Canteen Board should the winding up of the former's undertaking involve a loss. The
730Sir A. WILLIAMSON (Parliamentary Secretary, War Office)
: I am afraid I cannot answer that.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I am informed that uniform of authorised patterns for Eastern stations can be purchased from tailors for very considerably less than the prices quoted. There are also a few khaki drill uniforms of officers' pattern still in stock at the Royal Army Clothing Department, which officers may purchase if they wish; the price at present is £2 1s. 6d. for a jacket and £1 0s. 3d. for trousers.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: Amounts received on account of exchange compensation are liable to Income Tax equally with any other form of war bonus, and the tax thereon is being collected in the usual course for the current year of assessment ending on the 5th April next. The tax chargeable under the provisions of the Income Tax Acts, on payments of this character, is paid by all officers of the Crown, including the naval officers and men to whom my hon. Friend refers.The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER (Mr. Chamberlain)
30.  asked the Home Secretary on what principle the prison regulations were altered so as to abolish strict separate confinement during the first month for women sentenced to imprisonment with hard labour, while such separate confinement was retained for male prisoners having similar sentences?Mr. SPOOR
31.  asked the Home Secretary how many of the governors, superior officers, and subordinate officers of His Majesty's prisons, respectively, have been members of the Regular Forces, military or naval, before taking up their prison appointments?Mr. SPOOR
: I am not aware of any failure on the part of the Government to carry out the obligations assumed by them with respect to the Washington draft conventions under the Labour Clauses of the Peace Treaty, but I understand that my right hon. Friend differs from the Government as to the exact meaning of these obligations. It is not possible before the end of the financial year to find time for such a discussion as my right hon. Friend suggests, but if he will put a question to me after Easter I shall be glad to consider it.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I was not aware of that. In any case I cannot accept responsibility for them without examination.Mr. BONAR LAW
: As my answer did not go into details I did not check the figures. I cannot say off-hand.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I really cannot give any answer as to the views of the Soviet Government, but there is no truth in the suggestion that they represent our views.Mr. BONAR LAW
: His Majesty's Government have no knowledge of the note in question beyond the information concerning it printed in the public Press.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The question of the building of capital ships is still under consideration of the Committee of Imperial Defence, who have before their minds all the considerations referred to in the question of my hon. and gallant Friend. No decision has yet been reached. The House will have the opportunity of discussing the subject in connection with the Naval Estimates.Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
: I said that no decision had yet been taken. When the Estimates are submitted the House will see what is the decision of the Government.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I think we should have had the matter settled now but for the Conference. We must come to a decision before the Estimates are introduced and the end of the financial year.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I think it would be undesirable to give any expression of opinion about that. At all events, it would be premature until a new American Government has taken office.Mr. BONAR LAW
primâ facieprimâ facieprimâ facieprimâ facie: No. I fully recognise, and it is because I do recognise, the seriousness of these charges that I have said it is obviously not enough to make them without primâ facieprimâ facieprimâ facieprimâ facieMr. BONAR LAW
: I am informed that the statements contained in this question have no foundation. Lord Inverforth has, however, appointed a Departmental Committee to inquire into the matter, and has invited my hon. and gallant Friend to give evidence before them. Pending the Report of that Committee, I can make no further statement on the subject.Mr. BONAR LAW
primâ facie: I can only say that I have spoken to my Noble Friend, who says that there is no foundation for these statements—not for this particular statement, because I have never heard it before—and I do say that you cannot expect any Government to institute an inquiry on a charge of that kind without some primâ facieMr. BONAR LAW
primâ facieprimâ facie: No. I am quite certain that my hon. and gallant Friend does not make these charges without believing them to be accurate, but, equally, the Government cannot accept a mere statement as primâ facieprimâ facieMr. BONAR LAW
: I believe after Easter.Mr. BONAR LAW
indicated assent. indicated assent.Mr. BONAR LAW
798797"My hon. Friend says that we have made a bad beginning, and I think he may mean by that, beginning so late. Members of the House of Commons have been subjected this year to an amount of pressure on their time and energy for which there is no example in previous Sessions and that is continued slavery. That is also true of every civil servant. It is my belief that if there is to be any reasonable prospect at all of getting through the necessary financial business by 31st March it will be the clear wish of the House that we should postpone the meeting until the date I have mentioned. That is from the point of view of giving people a reasonable rest to enable them to come back
797"You have made a bad beginning,"796: I beg to move, "That until the end of the financial year, Government business do have precedence at every sitting."798797"My hon. Friend says that we have made a bad beginning, and I think he may mean by that, beginning so late. Members of the House of Commons have been subjected this year to an amount of pressure on their time and energy for which there is no example in previous Sessions and that is continued slavery. That is also true of every civil servant. It is my belief that if there is to be any reasonable prospect at all of getting through the necessary financial business by 31st March it will be the clear wish of the House that we should postpone the meeting until the date I have mentioned. That is from the point of view of giving people a reasonable rest to enable them to come back
797"You have made a bad beginning,"796Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
: Surely my right hon. Friend knows he does not need to ask that question, as I have been as ready to meet the wishes of the Labour party as of any other section, time permitting.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Not before Easter.BONAR LAW
: There has been a fairly long discussion on this subject which, I think, shows that there is really no difference of opinion in the House about the necessity for this particular Motion. The state of business requires it. My hon. Friend who spoke last is under some delusion, if I may say so, for, like other of his hon. Friends, he seems to think that what we are doing is to deprive the Labour party of opportunities of endless discussion on various questions. We are doing nothing of the kind. The vote by ballot has already been taken for Bills, and the Labour party has not been successful. Therefore, what we are doing to-day will not affect them in the least so far as private Bills are concerned. If we come to the question of occasions for private Members, there are four, or possibly five, Tuesdays and Wednesdays, and they have had the same chance as other Members of the House in the ballot. Therefore I think they are entirely wrong in assuming that we are depriving them of opportunities for raising special subjects which they wish to discuss. If my right hon. Friend opposite—and this is advice which perhaps is not in my own interest to give—would devote himself a little more to hunting—as some hon. Members do—opportunities for raising questions about things in which he is specially interested, he would probably be much more successful than in the method he has proposed. Let me point out that amongst the Supplementary Estimates is one dealing with unemployment. That must come on almost immediately, and I am quite sure that that will give all concerned a proper opportunity of raising questions, and a better one than they would have got in the ordinary way in private Members' time. As regards my right hon. Friend opposite (Sir D. Maclean), I think in his heart he admits the necessity for this Resolution.Mr. BONAR LAW
837836: I rather gathered that my right hon. Friend did admit
837836Mr. BONAR LAW
: Oh, no. [An HON. MEMBER: "Or the Key Industries Bill?"] No; but it is really hardly necessary for me to answer these questions. Time will not permit before Easter. I have been asked about the Public Expenditure Committee. My right hon. Friend (Mr. Baldwin) said to-day that he intends to set up that Committee at once. I do not think there is more to say. I have already said that the last thing we desire to do is to have the Guillotine in the case of finance, and it is in order to avoid any possibility of that that we are introducing this Motion, for the financial business must be done, as the House knows.; and I have not the least doubt that it can be done without any question of a Guillotine Resolution.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I am sorry I cannot personally answer that question. I have no doubt it has been considered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and I will consult him about it if my right hon. Friend puts down a question.Mr. BONAR LAW
882881primâ facieprimâ facie880primâ facie: My first acquaintance with this matter was about a couple of hours before I answered the question put to me to-day, and I did not have it before me in time to have more than a very few minutes' conversation on the subject with my Noble Friend Lord Inverforth. The result was that I was informed that there was no foundation for the allegations made by my hon. and gallant Friend (Captain Loseby). At question time I expressed the view that obviously if a 882881primâ facieprimâ facie880primâ facieMr. BONAR LAW
: Of course, one does not like to lose any Government time, but I am inclined to agree with my right hon. Friend that it is undesirable to take this Order to-night, particularly in view of the fact that it is necessary to take the Unemployment Insurance Bill to-morrow. It would be obviously still more inconvenient if my right hon. Friend made his speech to-night, and we went on with the discussion the day after to-morrow.Mr. BONAR LAW
886: I think hon. Members will feel that I have tried to meet their wishes, and give them full weight. I remember that precisely the same kind of discussion took place with regard to another Committee of the same kind, and I am sure that the difficulty suggested was not found to occur in practice. At the same time, I have no objection to what is suggested, if it can be arranged; and if the House will leave it in that way, I will consult with my right hon. Friend the Attorney-General as to what difficulties there are in the way, and also as to whether it would not be possible
886Mr. BONAR LAW
: I think not. My right hon. Friend may perhaps remember another Committee of exactly the same kind in connection with which the same difficulty was raised, where in fact it was found it could get all the evidence it desired without having statutory powers.Mr. BONAR LAW
: You cannot get control once the policy Vote is disposed of.Commander BELLAIRS
818: The various sectional opposition has had a good innings, four representatives in succession having spoken. The points raised by Members of the Labour party with regard to dealing with questions of unemployment were hardly germane to this Motion. [HON. MEMBERS: "Yes!"] In any case I cannot see how the taking of private Members' time is going to prevent the discussion of unemployment, because if hon. Members are successful in the Ballot they could deal with the question of unemployment either by Bills or Motions. The Government have not any option in regard to the Railway Bill. That is compulsory upon them. It is part of the agreement made long before this Government came into power, and they have to carry it out. My real object in rising is to explain an interruption I made during the speech of the right hon. Member for Peebles. He suggested that Votes on Account should only be for a short period of time, and not so far as July. The real point is that by the end of this financial year the House of Commons entirely loses control of policy, because all the policy Votes, such as Votes 1 of the Army, Navy and Air Estimates, are introduced and passed before the end of March. In the old days, I think up lo the eighties, we used frequently to carry the policy discussion on to Vote 2, and if the Opposition really want to get control of expenditure they must keep the policy Vote before the House of Commons for a longer period than the end of the old financial year. Last year we lost control of the Navy Estimates by the 23rd March, and we lost control of the Army Estimate so far as policy was concerned still earlier. So far as this Motion is concerned, I can hardly see how the Government have any option. They cannot control the fact that Easter falls at an early period and before the end of the financial year. They cannot control the fact that we have double the number of Supplementary Estimates. The right hon. Member for Peebles said that it was lack of foresight. One might as well say that it was lack of foresight for the Liberal Government not to anticipate the War, in which they have spent £7,000,000,000 of Supplementary Estimates. [HON. MEMBERS: "So it was!"] I agree, it was lack of foresight, and in these particular cases we are inheriting the legacies of that War. All these Supplementary Estimates are legacies that we have inherited from the War.
818Commander BELLAIRS
: In 1919 His Majesty's Government made a loan of $16,000,000 to Austria, the French and Italian Governments making equal contributions. In addition to this, His Majesty's Government made a further allocation in that year to Austria of £1,400,000. Further, under the International Relief Credits Scheme of 1920, in which the United States of America and Great Britain alone of the belligerent Governments participated, His Majesty's Government voted a credit of £10,000,000. Of this sum £5,545,000 has been allocated to Austria, to which country His Majesty's Government have thus advanced credits totalling in all more than £10,000,000. Relief of this nature can, however, only be temporary in its effect, and a permanent improvement in the situation can only be achieved by the gradual economic rehabilitation of Austria. As the hon. and gallant Member is doubtless aware, certain recommendations were made recently by a committee of representatives of the principal Allied Powers in Paris specially appointed to study this question. These recommendations are being examined by the Governments concerned, who have not yet reached a final decision.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
: I certainly hope so.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I have said that question is now being considered by the several Governments.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Perhaps the hon. and gallant Gentleman will give me notice of that question.Mr. HARMSWORTH
81. 766 asked the Minister of Food the total quantity of herrings purchased last season by or on behalf of the Government and the total cost of same; what part thereof has been sold and what
766Mr. PERCY
23.  asked the Secretary of State for War if the list of clasps to the war medal has been completed; if so, whether he will state what clasps have been settled upon; and, if not completed, if he will state the reasons for the long delay in arriving at a conclusion?Lieut.-Colonel DALRYMPLE WHITE
: Does the right hon. Gentleman suggest that financial considerations would affect the issue of clasps? Surely the nation will be willing to give a clasp.Lieut.-Colonel WHITE
: In view of the very large amount of publicity which has been given to this matter in the Press, will my right hon. Friend undertake that this Committee shall be set up immediately; and am I right in assuming that it will have full power to send for persons and documents in the usual way, and that at the earliest possible moment complete publicity will be given to the whole of this matter so that the public may know and the large amount of misunderstanding and misrepresentation may be finally dispelled?Sir D. MACLEAN
804"but such time as is taken from private Members up to the end of the financial year shall be restored to them between Easter and Whitsuntide.": I beg to move, at the end of the Question, to add the words
804"but such time as is taken from private Members up to the end of the financial year shall be restored to them between Easter and Whitsuntide."Sir D. MACLEAN
: I did not indicate any such intention.Sir D. MACLEAN
: The Estimates will not be laid before the 31st March. It is only when you get the Estimates laid you know what the policy is with regard to these great spending services. This House should retain control and not allow the Government to get more money than is absolutely necessary on these Votes on Account, and I hope hon. Members will watch that as carefully as they possibly can. If they want more money on account, let them come back to this House and ask for it. With regard to the question of private Member's time, nothing is more destructive of the prestige of and interest in the House of Commons than to completely obliterate the interest of private Members in its proceedings, and for them to get the idea, that they are here merely as vote-recording machines with no opportunity of expressing their opinion on current problems. That is one of the real reasons why the House of Commons is to some extent losing interest and prestige. Men go from the House of Commons and say they have little or no interest in its proceedings, that they have no chance of expressing freely and without the control of the Whips their opinions on many topics of real interest that come before the House by means of private Members' Motions on Tuesdays or Wednesdays, or in private Bills.Sir D. MACLEAN
806: I would ask my right hon. Friend to tell us, when he comes to reply, what is the programme of the Government with regard to Legislation between now and Easter, so that we may have some idea of what time the Government propose to give to the discussion of these overwhelming Supplementary Estimates. In view of the immense importance of a careful examination of finance, nothing but the most urgent measures should be submitted for Second Heading between now and Easter. The decks ought to be clear as far as possible for finance and the great and important questions which will be raised in connection with it. Four separate Votes on Account will have to be taken—for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force and the Civil Service. Then there will be two Consolidated Fund Bills—one on account of the Railway Estimates, for which the money has to be found at some time between now and the 15th or 20th April. That Bill will have to go through all its stages. I quite agree that at that stage the matter itself cannot very well be discussed, if we are allowed ample discussion of the other administrative proposals which come before the House. That will depend upon the time that is given for Debate. If all those most important financial subjects have to be submitted in that way, what time will there be for the introduction of highly controversial Bills? I am certain that I am voicing the feeling of the House as a whole when I say that it will deeply resent any attempt on the part of the Government to guillotine or closure financial discussion between now and Easter. I agree that, if there is any gross misuse of Debate, those who indulge in it must take the consequences, but I feel certain that that will not be the case. Any attempt to force these matters through, or to debate them in the small hours of the morning, will be a gross dereliction of the duty of this House in regard to these most important questions. Then I would urge that the Votes on Account should not be for an amount which will go further than the real necessities of the case. If, for instance, the Government should ask for Votes on Account for the services to which I have referred to an amount which carries them on, say, till July, I say that that is too long. It takes away from the House the proper control which it ought
806Sir D. MACLEAN
c808807: Therefore I suggest to my right hon. Friend that he ought to restore to hon. Members the time which they have lost between now and Easter and make it up to them as he did before between Easter and Whitsuntide. I think I carry a large amount of support from the general body of the House when I press that upon him. There is one other point, and it is this. I think the Chan-
c808807Sir D. MACLEAN
: Might I, with your permission, Mr. Speaker, ask the right hon. Gentleman the Leader of the House whether at this late hour he proposes to go on with the next Order, which is the question of the railway agreements? I do not think, if my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport undertakes that duty at 5 minutes past 10, he can very well do justice to himself or to his subject under 40 or 50 minutes, and we should not start to-morrow under anything like the same favourable conditions.Sir D. MACLEAN
888: I am sure Mr. Masterman and also my right hon Friend the Member for Paisley will appreciate to the full the apology which my right hon. Friend has just made. Mr. Master-man himself telephoned me about a couple of hours ago on this matter, and I had no opportunity at all of communicating to my right hon. Friend what Mr. Masterman said to me. But he, in the most unqualified manner, denied he was either directly or indirectly connected in any way with the article in the paper to which my right hon. Friend has just referred. I would also add this: that he had made inquiries also at the Liberal Publications Department, and they had nothing whatever, directly or indirectly, to do with the publication on the Con-
888Sir D. MACLEAN
roseroseSir D. MACLEAN
: There is a point I omitted in the remarks I made, and that was to ask my right hon. Friend whether the Government have taken into consideration the Report of the Committee of which I have the honour to be Chairman, on the question of the incidence of rates on Bills which are brought before the House. Perhaps my right hon. Friend will say whether between now and Easter the Government will have made up their minds to act upon that Report, and, if so, to what extent?Sir D. MACLEAN
: Not in my heart; I admit it quite frankly.Sir D. MACLEAN
: Twenty-six prison governors have served with the Regular Forces, not including five who joined temporarily during the War. I have not got the figures for the lower ranks, but a large proportion of the prison officers had previous military or naval service, and all those appointed since the War are men who served in the forces during the War.Mr. SHORTT
: It has always been the practice in English prisons to enforce sentences of hard labour less severely in the case of women than in the case of men. Separate confinement of women during the first month of their sentence has not been abolished, because it has never been imposed by the prison rules.Mr. SHORTT
: The numbers were, in 1918, 525 males and 87 females; in 1919, 587 males and 98 females; in 1920, 704 males and 76 females. There is no evidence that the increase in the number of males which has followed demobilisation is due to the influence of cinematograph films. It is obvious that the production of sensational films cannot exercise a wholesome influence on young people, but inquiries that have been made from time to time have found very little definite evidence to show that crime can be directly attributed to such films. The Chief Magistrate also informs me that no evidence of this kind has come under his notice.Mr. SHORTT
: No. I should not go so far as that.Mr. SHORTT
: As regards the first part of the question, the preparation of the statistics is not complete, but it appears, subject to verification, that 519 licences in England and Wales were extinguished on payment of compensation in the year 1920. The information asked for in the second part of the question is not yet available.Mr. SHORTT
: I know that there are three in Birmingham, three in Nottingham, and, I think, two in Brighton and another South Coast place, and I am told that they are not very popular.Mr. SHORTT
: My right hon. Friend has asked me to reply to this question. I would refer the hon. and gallant Member to the statement made last Thursday by my hon. and gallant Friend the Under-Secretary for the Home Office, in answer to a number of questions on this subject.Mr. SHORTT
: The answer is in the negative. I am informed by the Ministry of Transport that the Departmental Committee on the Taxation and Regulation of Road Vehicles, to which this question was referred, has come to the conclusion that it is not desirable that licences to ply for hire with these vehicles in the London area should be issued at the present time.Mr. SHORTT
: The standing instructions to police are to prevent obstruction by waiting vehicles that are not in the act of loading or unloading. When possible, waiting ranks are provided at places of public resort and elsewhere, but the free circulation of traffic is the prime consideration.Mr. SHORTT
: His Majesty's Government has decided not to take any steps at present for the adoption of the 24-hour system in this country.Mr. SHORTT
: There is not the faintest ground for suggesting that.Mr. SHORTT
744: Articles which seem to me detrimental to the best interests of the State appear from time to time in more, than one news-
744The SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Mr. Shortt)
: Yes. We are constantly doing so.Mr. SHORTT
: Will it not be necessary to have a Bill empowering the Committee to take evidence on oath?Sir F. BANBURY
: I asked the right hon. Gentleman a short time ago whether it would not be necessary to have an Act of Parliament in order to enable the Committee which he is going to set up to take evidence on oath. The right hon. Gentleman replied that he did not think that that was necessary. I have, however, in the meantime put the question to distinguished lawyers, and I think I am right in saying that without a Bill it will be impossible for the Committee to take evidence on oath. I venture to suggest to the Leader of the House that he could without any difficulty, after 11 o'clock on any evening, pass a Bill through all its stages to enable the Committee to take evidence on oath. I do not think that there would be a single dissentient voice in any quarter of the House. In the interests of the Civil Service itself, I feel that, unless this Committee is able to take evidence on oath, its findings, whatever they may be, will not have the weight in the country which they ought to have. If there is anything wrong—I do not say for a moment that there is—it should be probed to the bottom, and I venture to appeal to the Leader of the House to accede to the request which has been made by the hon. Member who has just sat down.Sir F. BANBURY
: They will get it on the Estimates.Sir F. BANBURY
: I am glad, then, that we shall be in the same Lobby supporting the Government when this goes to a Division. I believe we are discussing an Amendment, which is that after Easter a day will be given to private Members. I hope the Government will not accede to that. After Easter there will be again a large number of financial questions. There are two or three very important Bills which must be passed and go to the House of Lords. We must not forget the Budget. There is the Railway Bill and there is the Revenue Bill. I shall have great pleasure in supporting the Government on their Motion, provided that they do not give way on anything.Sir F. BANBURY
823: I assure my hon. Friend the Member for Wood Green (Mr. G. Locker-Lampson) that there is no possible chance of my going to the Treasury Bench as a result of my supporting the Government on this Motion. I also assure the hon. Member for the Scotland Division (Mr. O'Connor) that he can hardly include me among those Members whose sole object in this House is to support the Government, because I have on many occasions when I thought them wrong—as, I am sorry to say, they are very often—shown what I thought by recording my vote in the Lobby against them. The hon. Member for Wood Green is wrong in thinking that the Government have not in any way acceded to the request put forward by the Committee over which I have the honour to preside, the Select Committee on National Expenditure, as to the form of the accounts. I should not like to say off-hand how far they have followed our recommendations, but they certainly have adopted our recommendations to a considerable degree with regard to the Army Vote. I am not sure about the others. The right hon. Member for Platting (Mr. Clynes) made an impassioned speech against this proposal on the ground that he could not bring forward the question of unemployment. The right hon. Gentleman had two days last week to bring forward that question. This Motion, if carried, will not deprive him of further opportunities between now and the end
823Sir F. BANBURY
736: During 1920 the total volume of British exports to Empire markets was adversely affected by the scarcity of British export coal. During the same period, American and Japanese
736Mr. KELLAWAY (Secretary, Department of Overseas Trade)
77.  asked the Minister of Pensions if his attention has been drawn to the case of Mrs. E. Howman, the mother of the late Sergeant Joseph Chad Howman, No. 2,100, 21st London Rifles, who made application for pension in October, 1919, which, after repeated applications, was granted from June, 1920; and whether, in view of the fact that the original application was first made in October, 1919, he will have inquiries made as to the reason this pension was only granted from June, 1920?Mr. GEORGE EDWARDS
: Will any provision be made for the construction of capital ships in the Navy Estimates about to be submitted?Mr. LAMBERT
835834833: I am quite convinced that every lover of political institutions will pause before supporting the Government in this Motion. Political institutions are being challenged to-day by vast majorities of the working classes of this and every country, because they allege that they have failed to function so far as the working classes are concerned. I cannot conceive of anything which it is more undesirable to convey to the mind of the working classes of this country than that impression. When one considers that in relation to the tendencies of the times for a fundamental change in our political institutions, it behoves every lover of political institutions to pause before he takes any step whatever which is likely to endanger the continuity of institutions of this character. I cannot conceive of anything worse than to disturb the confidence of the people with regard to such institutions, and if we are expecting that confidence to continue to repose in the people of this country, then we have got to let them realise that this, at least, is a place where adequate opportunity will be
835834833Mr. SPENCER
767: I am informed that the earliest
767The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of PENSIONS (Major Tryon)
68. 756 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether naval officers and men stationed in India and China, who have received some compensation in exchange owing to the price of silver being exceptionally high last year, are now called upon to pay Income Tax
756Mr. STEWART
: May the House take it that the right hon. Gentleman is introducing this Bill in order to carry out the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Income Tax in regard to local administration?Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: May the House take it that this Bill will be taken downstairs, and not sent up to Grand Committee?Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
58.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer when it is proposed to introduce the Revenue Bill?Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say if it has already been decided that the subsidy shall be £40 per lorry per annum, and what the total cost will be?Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
18.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether there is a scheme in his Department for the subsidy of motor lorries in the event of their being required for purposes of war in the future?Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
> Before the Committee which is looking into the matter come to any decision, will this House be given any opportunity to consider it?Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
"I do not think the Estimates as furnished to Parliament are worth the paper they are written on from the point of view of Parliamentary control."816815: I agree with my hon. Friend (Major C. Lowther) that economy in words is as good as economy in anything, and I only rise to ask the Financial Secretary to the Treasury a few questions. I do hope that the Government may not have closed their minds entirely to the proposition made by my right hon. Friend the Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean). Generally one can gather from the countenance of Members of the Government whether they are going to give way or not, but they have preserved a stony countenance up till now, and I am rather afraid that they
"I do not think the Estimates as furnished to Parliament are worth the paper they are written on from the point of view of Parliamentary control."816815Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
La Nouvelliste,: I rise to say a few words of personal explanation and apology in reference to something that I said yesterday. During the course of the Debate yesterday in good faith I quoted from a French newspaper, namely, La Nouvelliste,The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: I wish to make it clear that I made no accusation against anyone's personal honour or sincerity in this matter. My point was that certain speeches or parts of speeches gave encouragement to enemies of this country. I do not think that is a question for apology. I repeat what I said, that Irish matters are too grave for personalities, and if I have tried to score a point by personalities I profoundly regret it.Sir H. GREENWOOD
891: I have not seen this article, but I have had the benefit of hearing it read, and, of course, so far as I am concerned, I hope it is not necessary for me to say that I do not for a moment suggest, nor do I feel, that the interpretation that has been placed upon it by the hon. and gallant Member is correct. The
891Sir H. GREENWOOD
740"On receipt of a complaint that a party of the Auxiliary Division had been guilty of looting, the Chief of Police directed the Commandant of the Auxiliary Division to make immediate inquiry. The Commandant thereupon arrested five platoon commanders and section leaders and one cadet, with a view to their being brought to trial, as he considered there was clear evidence against them. The services of the remainder of the party were dispensed with. Dismissal can only be carried out by the direction of the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police sent instructions to suspend action against the 26 cadets until he returned to Dublin. This letter took 24 hours to reach the Commandant of the Auxiliary Division., with the result that the men were sent to England. On arrival in England they protested to the Chief of Police at the Irish Office that they had been dismissed without trial. On his return to Dublin, he directed that the dismissed cadets should be recalled without prejudice to any future disciplinary action if found guilty. He at once instituted a Court of Inquiry into the whole of the circumstances which is now proceeding. The cadets have not been allowed to return to their own unit, and there is no question under any circumstances of allowing them to do so. They are now awaiting the finding
740: I will answer this question, and, at the same time, answer a similar question of the Noble Lord the Member for South Nottingham (Lord H. Cavendish-Bentinck). I wired to-day to the Chief of Police for his observations on this matter, and I will read to the House his reply in full, which is as follows:
740"On receipt of a complaint that a party of the Auxiliary Division had been guilty of looting, the Chief of Police directed the Commandant of the Auxiliary Division to make immediate inquiry. The Commandant thereupon arrested five platoon commanders and section leaders and one cadet, with a view to their being brought to trial, as he considered there was clear evidence against them. The services of the remainder of the party were dispensed with. Dismissal can only be carried out by the direction of the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police sent instructions to suspend action against the 26 cadets until he returned to Dublin. This letter took 24 hours to reach the Commandant of the Auxiliary Division., with the result that the men were sent to England. On arrival in England they protested to the Chief of Police at the Irish Office that they had been dismissed without trial. On his return to Dublin, he directed that the dismissed cadets should be recalled without prejudice to any future disciplinary action if found guilty. He at once instituted a Court of Inquiry into the whole of the circumstances which is now proceeding. The cadets have not been allowed to return to their own unit, and there is no question under any circumstances of allowing them to do so. They are now awaiting the finding
740The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: I have read to the House the whole reply I got from the Chief of Police this morning in answer to a telegram I sent to him. I do not think I can add anything to what I have stated.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: General Tudor, the Chief of Police, is taking the severest steps possible; but I must say—and I think the House will agree with me—that I do not think anyone should be condemned before trial.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: No, no; I must correct that. Personally, I have nothing to do with this matter of the discipline of the police.Sir H. GREENWOOD
69.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer what will be the amount which the Government will pay to the farmers for the difference between 95s. per quarter and the price per quarter already received by the farmers for the 1920 wheat crop; and will this sum be paid out of the cost of bread or out of Imperial taxation?Mr. GLANVILLE
: May I ask the right hon Gentleman if he will inform the officers of the Army of the sympathy of the hon. Member for the Falls Division (Mr. Devlin) and his colleagues?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Salaries are matters of agreement between the local education authorities and the teachers employed by those authorities. The Burnham Committee was instituted in order to find some orderly method of settling salary problems throughout the country and in order to prevent one authority bidding against another for teachers.Mr. FISHER
: No, not the original Burnham Report.Mr. FISHER
: If the hon. Member will refer to my correspondence with Lord Burnham, he will see exactly how the matter stands. It is rather a complicated question to explain to the House, because it depends very much as to when and under what circumstances the local education authority came to the agreement.Mr. FISHER
: The Prime Minister has asked me to reply to this question. The Board's Regulations prescribe the payment of minimum rates of salary to certificated and uncertificated teachers in public elementary schools, but do not otherwise require the adoption of any particular scale or scales of salary by local education authorities. The Burnham Commitee is essentially a representative Committee, of which half the members were appointed by the associations of local education authorities, to which all local education authorities belong, and it was constituted in order to secure the orderly and progressive solution of the salary problem by agreement.The PRESIDENT of the BOARD of EDUCATION (Mr. Fisher)
: The Burnham Committee hopes to distribute the scale according to areas. That distribution has not yet been effected. The local authority will then have to consider whether it will adopt the suggestion of the Burnham Committee.Mr. FISHER
51.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware that the cultivation sub-committee of the Wilts Argicultural Committee view with alarm the Order which has recently been served on certain War Department tenants to sow back to grass several thousand acres of valuable corn-growing land which were broken up during the War in the districts around Amesbury: whether he is aware that, if this Order is proceeded with, it will cause grave unemployment in the district; and whether, in the interest of national food production, he will at once take steps to have this Order reconsidered?Mr HUGH MORRISON
: May I ask my right hon. Friend whether, first, the police are superior to these military officers who are in charge of the Black and Tans; and, secondly, what is the reason the Inspector of Police has accepted the resignation of Brigadier-General Crozier, otherwise known as Colonel-Commandant Crozier, and the Adjutant.Mr. HOGGE
: The Committee to which my hon. and gallant Friend is referring is not the Accounts Liquidation Committee but a Committee subordinate to them.Mr. HOPE
: By all means read the whole correspondence.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of MUNITIONS (Mr. James Hope)
62 and 63.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer (1) the amount of revenue received during the year 1920 from the duty of 33 per cent. levied on imported watches and clocks; whether it is possible, to give the proportion received on component parts used by manufacturers and repairers;Mr. KILEY
: I am afraid that is too vague a matter.Mr. SPEAKER
: Captain Loseby.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member is raising other points.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member seems to be indulging in a discussion of all the different topics which he might raise if he were successful in the ballot. I think he is entitled to point out some of them, but he is not entitled to take this opportunity to discuss each of them.Mr. SPEAKER
: The right hon. Gentleman has spoken once.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member is not quite fairly quoting. My attention has been called to this particular paragraph, but it would be better if the hon. Member would read the whole of it. It seemed to me that the particular sentence refers only to what is actually going on in Ireland at the present moment—the campaign carried on by the Sinn Feiners.Mr. SPEAKER
771: I recognise that the grievance of long speeches is felt in most
771Mr. SPEAKER
885884: I am sure that all the Members of this House will appreciate the readiness of the right hon. Gentleman to accept the fullest inquiry into the charges and allegations that have been made. My hon. and gallant Friend has not come to make this matter a coward's
885884Mr. SEDDON
883: Two facts emerge from to-day's proceedings which will be generally acceptable to the country. The first is the readiness of this House of Commons, immediately it hears serious allegations being made, to promptly give further opportunity to the hon. Member making them to raise the issue, and the second is satisfaction that the Government should have met the demand in the way it has. This is a charge against civil servants. There is no department of public life and no body of public servants in this country whose reputation this House of Commons ought more jealously to guard than the Civil Service. Therefore, something having been said which reflects upon that service, of which we are all so proud, we are entitled to say that the first opportunity should be given it in order to clear itself from the charge if possible. I am sure my right hon. Friend did not intend to overlook one important condition, and that was that just as the Government is desirous to court full and frank and open inquiry, it is equally anxious to protect those who believe that they are serving the public interest by giving the facts which they have disclosed. In other words, it should be made abundantly clear that no man, high or low, whatever his position may be, will suffer for giving evidence before the inquiry. I am quite sure my right hon. Friend will be ready to acquiesce in this suggestion. My hon. Friend who brought this matter forward is to be congratulated on his action and the Government are equally to be congratulated on the prompt steps they have taken to meet the charge. I hope that a fair and impartial inquiry will be held,
883Mr. J. H. THOMAS
: Can the right hon. Gentleman tell the House why these officers resigned?Mr. J. H. THOMAS
803802801800: That qualification, "time permitting," leaves the decision entirely to the judgment of the right hon. Gentleman, and as he has argued to the House it is necessary to take the whole of the time of Parliament till Easter for the purpose of disposing of these Estimates, how can we feel reassured in face of that qualification? The right hon. Gentleman really is not attaching sufficient importance to the situation outside this House. It is not merely that the times are abnormal within it in regard to the number of the Estimates and the unusual amount of financial business which has to be considered, but there never was a situation outside this House similar to that which exists at this moment. Only a few days ago, from that Bench, the Minister for Labour informed the House that the official figures of the unemployed exceeded 1,000,000—to speak more accurately, 1,039,000 persons are officially reported as being out of work, and as the Minister very fairly admitted, there was in addition to that a very considerable number who, in no way registered themselves as unemployed. Taking the whole of the 600,000 affected by short time, taking the hundreds of thousands of unemployed workers not registered, taking the official minimum, and including in these figures the numbers of their households, we are
803802801800Mr. CLYNES
799: The right hon. Gentleman has exhibited, in moving his Resolution, a more than usual degree of coolness in facing a difficult situation. Certainly he has attempted to make a very big draw on the toleration and goodwill of the House in asking it to forego the rights of private Members between this period and Easter. He has pointed out that Easter falls early this year and that there are more than the usual number of Estimates to be got through between now and then—two reasons surely why greater foresight should have been shown on the part of the Government and why some Parliamentary action should have been taken different from that of this, the worst of all forms of Parliamentary closures. It is incorrect to say that the Members of the House desired so long a holiday that they would come back to their work so late as not to be able to get it through and to do it properly. That is no reason for the right hon. Gentleman's Motion; it is, to my mind, a reason for the contrary. He has pointed out that the times are abnormal. So they are. But really the right hon. Gentleman in asking that private Members should muzzle themselves and leave the Government to do practically what it pleases with Parliamentary time, is ignoring the very menacing situation arising particularly from existing conditions. When the right hon. Gentleman says there might be occasion, and that there would be common
799Mr. CLYNES
56. 760 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he is aware that grave hardship is being caused
760Mr. JOHN GUEST
: Is the right hon. Gentleman prepared to give special consideration to those youths under twenty-one years of age who are practically the mainstay of the home during the period of illness?Mr. GUEST
829828: I do not propose to follow the last speaker in the large number of subjects with which he has dealt, but I most strongly agree with him in one point. I do stand for the rights of private Members. I agree with all that he said, and I agree with every speaker except one, and that is my hon. Friend, the Member for Canterbury (Mr. R. McNeill), who has a contempt of private Members' activities which experience has not borne out and which the House does not share. How do we really get most time for discussing matters? I am in the same boat with the last speaker over that. I do not want the Government to shut either him or me out of the chance of discussing whatever we want to discuss, but I do put it to him that he is wrong in this matter and that under the plan of the Government the private Members will in this particular case get more opportunities of discussing questions we all want to discuss than if the private Members are given their usual time. After all, what are the main subjects? They are unemployment, Ireland, high prices, extravagance, railways, and telephones, and every one of these can be raised on one of the Estimates. That surely is a much better chance for us than the chance of getting a place in the ballot, which may not bring on a discussion of the subject we want. This applies also to the right hon. Member for Miles Platting (Mr. Clynes), who lays great stress on the questions of Ireland and unemployment. I think all these points are better dealt with on the Estimates.829828Major HILLS
75.  asked the Postmaster-General, with reference to the assertions that the late National Telephone Company made a considerable profit on its operations, how much it cost the Post Office to raise the low rates of wage and pensions paid by the company to the State level?Mr. MILLS
76.  asked the Postmaster-General how much Press telegrams now cost the country over and above the rate paid for them by the newspapers; and whether in the interests of economy he intends to alter the present subsidy system?Mr. MILLS
: My reason for mentioning these subjects is the very plausible statement made by the Leader of the House in asking us to waive our claims. We recognise that we shall be deprived of our privileges to ventilate these questions by the action of the Government, and it will prevent the bulk of hon. Members from putting forward an alternative policy. On the occasions to which the Leader of the House has referred, if we attempt to discuss an alternative policy we shall be immediately ruled out of order, and we shall be told that we are going outside the ambit and scope of the question before the House. We believe that the policy adopted by the Government in Ireland is affecting the unemployed in this country, and that is why we want to have a full and free discussion in the event of any hon. Member obtaining a chance in the ballot, so that we may in that way open out every avenue whereby it might be possible to find a solution to this problem. I shall oppose the proposition which has been put forward by the Leader of the House.Mr. SWAN
844843842841: In spite of plausible statements of the Leader of the House in regard to the powers and privileges of Members, we are still very apprehensive that this Motion will take away rights and privileges of Members which we ought to guard in a very jealous manner. We protest against the removal of these privileges because, we are apprehensive that the House is paying too much regard to the financial interests of large corporations, or that large corporations are influencing the action of the House too much, and to the detriment of the rank and file of the country outside whom we represent. Listening to the Leader of the House appealing to us to put aside those rights and privileges reminded me of the fable of the fox which got its tail cut off, and which went about advising all the rest to have their tails taken off likewise. We are not convinced that the right hon. Gentleman's policy is going to be of any assistance to us in the light of existing conditions throughout the country. There are certain problems which we believe can only be dealt with effectively if the chosen representatives of the nation are given opportunities of presenting and outlining their case on the floor of the House of Commons. This ought to be the real sounding-board of public opinion in the country. If the Motion is carried, instead of the House of Commons being recognised as a sounding-board, whereby
844843842841Mr. SWAN
: I desire to ask you, Sir, whether it is not a fact that in any important Debate in this House the available time is largely monopolised by Members on the Front Benches, and whether you will consider the desirability of calling one ordinary private Member who undertakes to limit his speech to a maximum of 15 minutes after each speech delivered by a Member on a Front Bench. I do not know whether, with your permission—probably it is a point of Order—I may say why I put this question. Yesterday we had a Debate on a subject of the most importance which lasted seven hours. During that time only ten speakers could take part in the Debate on account of the length of the speeches. There is very strong resentment on the part of ordinary private Members who are so frequently excluded from debate. We regard you, Sir, as the custodian of the privileges of all sections of the House, and, while we receive fair consideration at your hands, we know that your calling upon Members is very largely governed by the traditions of the House. This old tradition has outlived its day, and, if arrangements could be made whereby the speeches of Members on the Front Benches could be either shorter or become fewer, it would be a misfortune which we private Members would bear with Christian fortitude and resignation.Mr. WALLACE
849848"I hope it will be possible to give the House the result of this Report before it rises next week."847846845: I rise to join in the protest, which has been made against this Motion and I do so because, in my judgment, after a long experience in this House, there has never been so large a demand made upon a very quiescent Parliamentary representation than that made by the Leader of the House when he asks us to accept this Motion. Parliament was only opened last Tuesday. Four or five days have elapsed, and at the end of less than a week the Leader of the House comes here and invites us to hand over every right and privilege we possess to his keeping, and into the keeping of the Government. I think that is a most
849848"I hope it will be possible to give the House the result of this Report before it rises next week."847846845Mr. DEVLIN
: Do I understand—Mr. DEVLIN
: I beg to ask leave to move the Adjournment of the House for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, "the refusal of His Majesty's Ministers to give satisfaction to all sections of this House in regard to the serious condition of affairs that has arisen in the British Army in Ireland."Mr. DEVLIN
: Are we to understand that these military officers, the superior officers of these men, investigated the charges of looting made against them, and that, having investigated these charges, they, acting as investigators, dismissed them, and that these men, although they are not now allowed back into their units, were subsequently retained as officers in Ireland; that the investigating tribunal resigned, and that the resignations have been accepted; and that the only people now in charge of these matters are the criminals who are guilty of these acts for which they were dismissed, and for which officers left the army?Mr. DEVLIN
742: May I ask the Prime Minister whether now, having heard this discussion in the House, he will be prepared, in view of the conflict that exists between officers and men, and the serious-
742Mr. DEVLIN
22.  asked the Secretary of State for War the strength of the British and Indian Forces at present employed in Mesopotamia; and what is the ration strength?Mr. MOSLEY
: I am informed that the report of this Committee is now in proof, and I expect to receive it very shortly.The SECRETARY for SCOTLAND (Mr. Munro)
811810809: There is, I think, a traditional and time-honoured function of the Leader of the Opposition in this House. It is not always the same. The general duty of the Leader of the Opposition is to oppose the Government, but there are occasions, I think, when his duty is to say a ceremonial ditto to the Leader of the House. I must say it struck me, while listening to the two speeches of the two right hon. Gentlemen, both of whom lead somebody opposite, that they were dividing these functions between them. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Miles Platting (Mr. Clynes) began in the time-honoured way by opposing the proposal from this side of the Table, and then my right hon. Friend followed, until he moved his Amendment at the end, by saying a ceremonial ditto, because, after all, the greater part of his speech was directed to show how superlatively necessary it is for the Government to take the time they are asking. All that he said about the magnitude of finance and the necessity for its thorough investigation and discussion in the House amounted really to a confirmation of what had
811810809Mr. RONALD McNEILL
33.  asked the Home Secretary whether his attention has been called to the Continental traffic in worn-out horses; and what steps he has taken to see that these horses are in a fit state to travel and are properly cared for during the crossing and on landing?Mr. GWYNNE
: To what Ministry does the hon. and gallant Gentleman refer?Mr. GWYNNE
763: The Civil Service bonus scheme, which came into force last March, provides for revisions at intervals of four months during the first year of the scheme and at intervals of six months thereafter; and the bonus as so assessed is subject to increase or decrease at the rate of 1–26th for each five points rise or fall in the cost of living on the average of the four (or six) months' period preceding the date of revision. Under this arrangement the
763The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Stanley Baldwin)
: I find no fault myself with the constitution of the committee which discussed these matters, but the question has been debated and no doubt will be debated again.Mr. BALDWIN
: That very point was raised and discussed at some length in the Debate last December, and it is quite possible that the point will be raised again. It is no new point to the House.Mr. BALDWIN
: No. There is one among the Supplementary Estimates that have just been issued that covers the sum for March.Mr. BALDWIN
: I do not think my hon. Friend has quite grasped this matter. It was debated at some length in December, and I may tell him quite shortly that what the Civil Service is going to make on this latest revision on the swings, they lost on the roundabouts throughout the whole of last year.Mr. BALDWIN
: There is a Supplementary Estimate, which my hon. and gallant Friend has probably seen. I gave him the exact figure on the 18th December. I have not referred to it again, but my recollection is that for the whole 12 months 1–26th amounts to something over £1,000,000.Mr. BALDWIN
840839: We, the private Members, are asked by this Motion voluntary to place ourselves in a ring fence and to give up whatever rights we possess. As a matter of fact, the condition of the nation is such that matters may occur at the very earliest moment compelling the attention of this House and the country to them. That has been caused because Ministers are coming to this House in the same perfunctory way and spirit in which they did long before the War. They seem to imagine that nothing has changed; that they can come to this House and go away just in the same method as before the War. But that is not the case, and ought not to be. From 1906, so far as I remember, private Members were treated as though they had no Parliamentary rights. Ministers seemed to wonder why they were here. Their duty was to be quiet, to sit still, and—so to speak—to see what God would send them! Surely, however, an occasion of this kind, when unemployment is graver than ever it was known and the condition of the great key industry of the whole nation is such that to-day hundreds of thousands of people are out of employment, is not the time in which to ask us to enclose ourselves within a fence set up by the Government, and practically submit the whole of the time up to 31st March to the disposal of the Government. I do not think it is! I think we ought to have at least a reasonable period allowed to us to deal with these matters which so largely affect the life of the community, and which may involve consequences none of us can determine. That is the reason why we are asking for this. We are not doing so merely for the sake of opposition. Ministers come along and say, do so and so. As a matter of fact, in the past, when time has been
840839Mr. WALSH
838: It is because of the point of view taken by the Leader of the House that we are opposed to this Motion. I do not think that there ever was a time, indeed, I am certain there never was a time, in the history of the nation that it was so necessary for the House to remain master of its own time for at least a reasonable period. Take the matter of the Address, which we have
838Mr. S. WALSH
820819: I belong to one of those sections of this House on whom a great deal of cold water, not to say contempt, has been thrown in this Debate. I was amazed by the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Canterbury. If he were a good Catholic instead of a sound Orangeman, I would describe him as more papal than the Pope, and more governmental than the Government. He said that all this talk about the rights of private Members was merely foolishness, and futile, that really the business of the House of Commons was in the hands of the Government, and almost the sole duty of private Members was to accept gratefully anything that came from the Government table. I do not know whether anything is coming to my hon. Friend from the Government table. Nobody will be more delighted than I shall if that be the case, but I cannot understand why he should now give to England the love that he has so long given to Ulster. I will not go into speculation on that matter, especially as I believe there will be more officers than Members of the Ulster Parliament. He says, "What is the use of this discussion? It is a mere waste of time." My hon. Friend must be very little acquainted with the history of the House of Commons if he does not know that some of the greatest measures of reform passed by this House have had their origin in these futile and academic discussions.820819Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: Are the figures which are quoted, 700,000 and 300,000, respectively, accepted as correct by the Admiralty or by whomsoever is supposed to check them?Rear-Admiral ADAIR
39.  asked the Secretary for Scotland whether he has received letters from chemists in Scotland protesting against certain parts of the new Regulations under the Dangerous Drugs Act; and, if so, will he say whether he is taking any action in the matter?Rear-Admiral ADAIR
814813: I desire to enter my protest against the House being asked to pass this Motion. One feels that for the Government to appropriate the greater part of the time between now and Easter will not give those with whom I am associated the opportunity they desire to
814813Mr. MYERS
6.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether all the certificates for mentions in dispatches during the late War have now been issued?Lieut.-Colonel CAMPION
: Have any of the articles in question been submitted to the Director of Public Prosecutions to see whether a prosecution should take place?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Was not almost the entirety of the money we borrowed from the United States lent at once to our Allies?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Were these military, officers dismissed because the decision they gave in carrying out what they considered to be their duty was distasteful to the policy of the Government?Captain REDMOND
: I am not referring to you individually, but to the Government.Captain REDMOND
72.  asked the Postmaster-General what is the difference in time taken in the carriage of mails between London and Waterford, viâ Fishguard and Rosslare, at present compared to pro-War time; and when pre-War conditions will be resumed?Captain REDMOND
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that great dissatisfaction exists in all parts of Ireland, North and South, with regard to facilities for mails, and does he lead us to understand that, as Postmaster-General, he can do nothing whatsoever to bring these facilities to the position they were in before the War? Is the Postmaster-General helpless in the matter? Do I understand that the Postmaster-General can do nothing to make these railway companies carry the mails as efficiently, and in as short space of time, as they did before the War?Captain REDMOND
: Am I to understand that the Government are so bent upon carrying out a policy of utter indiscipline in the armed forces of the Crown in Ireland that they will not even treat with regard the decisions of their own officers, but must have them arbitrarily overruled by a higher power here in London?Captain REDMOND
 asked the Prime Minister whether his attention has been called to a grave report circulated in this morning's Press, namely, that 30 cadets were recently caught red-handed in organised looting; that the case was investigated by the Commandant of the Division who remanded live for trial by court-martial and dismissed the remainder from the Division; that these latter, on their return to England, had an interview with a police adviser to the Viceroy; that their theft was condoned, their dismissal cancelled, and they were sent back to Ireland to their original company; that their Commanding Officer's decision was arbitrarily overruled, and that, as a consequence, the Commanding Officer and Adjutant have resigned; and whether he will state the name and authority of the arbitrary adviser, and what steps the Government intend taking in the matter?by Private NoticeCaptain REDMOND
: In view of the Adjournment having been carried on this Motion, I beg to state that on the Adjournment to-night I shall call attention to the resignation of the commandant and adjutant of a division of the auxiliary cadets in Ireland.Captain REDMOND
: My attention has been called to a statement in the Press to this effect. It is not correct. In the case of Joseph Murphy the Court of King s Bench in Dublin upon the evidence before it held that a court-martial were wrong in point of law in refusing an application made by counsel for the defence, at the trial, for the production of the proceedings of a Court of Inquiry. But so far from censuring the court-martial, the King's Bench expressly stated that they could not blame the court for following the advice given to them by the Judge Advocate at the trial on a question of law. The Judge Advocate at the trial was a civilian barrister of 18 years' standing with great experience of criminal cases both before civil courts and courts-martial.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: I am not aware, speaking generally, that any just criticism has been brought against the administration of justice by these courts.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: If my hon. Friend presses that question, he must give notice. The general answer is no.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: My hon. and gallant Friend must realise that financial considerations can never be entirely absent from a matter of this sort. On the other hand, he may rely that we are not likely to be mean in a matter of this sort. Nevertheless, the various ways, which all incur considerable expense, must be carefully considered.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: The question of the issueSir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: The total number of recruits enlisted for the Territorial Force, up to 12th February, was 83,263, and in addition 3,664 men have been registered but not yet attested. The establishment of the force is approximately 224,000.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: It has recently been found that some of the-Victory medals have become iridescent, and the cause is at present under investigation. Instructions have been given to suspend the issue of any iridescent medals.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: The number of officers employed in the War Office in August, 1914, was 147, and on 1st February, 1921, was 333. I will circulate a statement showing the Departments and sub-Departments in which the officers are now employed. With the ex-Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: The number of non-Regular officers now serving with the Army, both at home and abroad, and paid for under War Office Votes is approximately 4,000. Of this number, 42 are serving in the War Office. Reductions are being carried out as rapidly as circumstances permit.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: No, that is not at all what I said. What I said was that reductions had been and were being made.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: There are approximately 17,000 certificates, for mentions in despatches still to be issued, and it is anticipated that the work will be completed by the end of April next.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: Approximately 550,000 Victory medals were melted up owing to a change of design which it was found necessary to carry out. No British war medals have been held up for issue with the Victory medals, and nearly two millions have already been despatched.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
726: The hon. Member is under a misapprehension. Ex-temporary lieut.-colonels who commanded units in the field for a continuous period of not less than six months or for an aggregate of not less than nine months are being granted permanent regular commissions in the rank of captain. The details of the scheme for granting regular
726Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: It is not considered to be in the public interest to publish in the official reports whether cars attacked are, or are not, furnished with armour protection, apart from the armoured cars proper. A large number of the lorries, vans and cars in Ireland are already so protected, and this number is steadily increasing. The poor success to the rebels which has attended recent ambushes, and the few casualties inflicted on the troops, proves that this armouring is efficient. It must be remembered that the object of troops when attacked is not to remain in the cars, but to get out and take the offensive against their assailants.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
743: The total strength of the military forces at present in Mesopotamia, including North West Persia, is approximately: British Army (all ranks) 17,000; Indian Army (all
743Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: I have been asked to answer this question. According to the latest returns there were 61 Turkish prisoners of war in Egypt and Palestine awaiting repatriation to Turkey. With the exception possibly of a few who are not yet fit to travel, all are about to be embarked for ConstantinopleThe SECRETARY of STATE for WAR (Sir Laming Worthington-Evans)
: To the Ministry of Agriculture.Commander EYRES-MONSELL
: I am only answering for the Minister of Agriculture, but everything in a legislative and administrative way is done, so far as Ministers can do it.Commander EYRES-MONSELL
747: I have been asked to reply to this question. The Diseases of Animals Act, 1910, as amended by the Exportation of Horses Act, 1914, prohibits the shipment of any horse from any port in Great Britain to any port on the Continent unless it has been examined immediately before shipment by a veterinary inspector of the Ministry of Agriculture, and certified by him to be fit to travel and also fit to work without suffering. It is therefore illegal to ship any horses incapable of passing this test. Veterinary inspectors have been appointed by the Ministry at all the ports of shipment to examine horses presented for that purpose, and explicit instructions have been given to them by the Ministry not to pass any animal which does not comply fully with the standard of fitness laid down by the Acts. The Ministry has no reason to believe that these instructions are not strictly complied with. Regulations have been made by the Ministry with regard to the construction of vessels carrying horses, and as to their feeding and attendance whilst on board. These Regulations are contained in the Horses (Importation and Transit) Order of 1913. The Ministry
747Commander EYRES-MONSELL (Treasurer of the Household)
757: I have been asked to reply. Representations of the nature referred to in the question have been received from the Wilts Agricultural Committee, and the Ministry is in communication with the War Office on the subject. I would, however, refer my hon. Friend to the reply which was given by the Secretary of State for War on the
757Commander EYRES-MONSELL
: I have been asked to reply. The total quantity of herrings purchased by the Government during the summer and autumn fishing of 1920 is 941,099 barrels, at a total cost of £2,960,457. 147,022 barrels have been sold at the price of £433,401. The present unsold stock consists of 794,077 barrels. In the present financial position of Russia and Central Europe, which are the principal markets for pickled herrings, it is impossible to form any reliable estimate of the value of this stock. The whole of it, so far as is known, is in good condition and fit for human consumption. The unsold stock has been handed over to the Government Surplus Stock Disposal Board, and every endeavour is being made to dispose of this stock with as little delay as possible.Commander EYRES-MONSELL
: I understand the Ministry of Agriculture is the responsible Department.Commander EYRES-MONSELL
875prima facie874: I beg to second the Motion. I have had the opportunity of going through and testing a great deal of the evidence which has been adduced in the form of sworn affidavits, and I say unhesitatingly that the volume of that sworn evidence is such as to justify the setting up of a strong tribunal of investigation—in the interests of honest and pure administration. Frankly I was disappointed this afternoon with the statement made by the Leader of the House. I was more than amazed knowing what I know in this matter when he got up and gave the assurance of the Minister of Munitions that there was no foundation for the allegations which were implied in the questions of my learned and gallant Friend. I knew the circumstances beforehand, when that meeting, which has been given in some detail by my hon. Friend, and was arranged, which took place before the Minister; and it seems to me to be an amazing thing that he denied what that particular individual, Mr. Sutton,
875prima facie874Mr. CLEMENT EDWARDS
41.  asked the Postmaster-General whether he is in a position to state the round number of telephone calls which were sent through the exchanges of the United Kingdom during 1920; what proportion of these were on the flat-rate basis; will he state how many flat-rate users there are who originate less than 2,000 calls per annum; and whether, in regard to trunk calls, he can state how many users there are where the new rate will be less than the present one?Mr. HIGHAM
26.  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he is aware that articles detrimental to the best interests of the State are appearing regularly in a certain newspaper; will he explain why action has not been taken in the matter; is he aware of the fact that the police authorities would take action but for certain instructions from his office; and will he explain why restraint is placed upon the Commissioner of Police in carrying out what he considers to be his duty in this matter?Mr. HIGHAM
878877876: As I have had just a little connection with questions of this kind as Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, although, of course, I have not been concerned with my hon. Friends in this case, and know nothing about it at all, I think it will be right for me very briefly to put the House in possession of what has come before the Public Accounts Committee, and may be germane—I think all my colleagues on the Committee would agree it is germane—to matters put forward this evening. First of all, one has to make clear the sort of attitude which Departments are concerned in concluding these big War contracts have got to the Audit Office. If, for instance, it were the practice of the Audit Office to be over meticulous and exacting and bothering in their methods of auditing and probing, then perhaps there would be in the minds of some people at any rate some justification for an attitude of trying to conceal papers. It so happens that at the beginning of the Session before last the Chancellor of the Exchequer, speaking after dinner somewhere—I have not looked it up, and I do not intend to make any sort of suggestion against the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but he was dealing with the question whether the staffs of departments winding up after the war were worth their salaries and whether the winding up processes were really time well spent—made something which seemed to me almost a suggestion that there might be staffs of accountants under the Comptroller and Auditor-General who might try to make too detailed a survey and to spend money without finding out anything worth discovering. Therefore, as Chairman of the Committee, I made it part of my duty as each accounting officer came before us, to ask whether, in his experience or that of his officers, the officers of the Comptroller and Auditor-General had acted in that way, and whether he thought in his department that the necessity of answering all the Audit Office queries which might be made on these matters was really vexatious business which meant
878877876Mr. ACLAND
: Yes, I ought not to have said members of his staff.Mr. ACLAND
: That is why, in that instance, and in that instance only, I mentioned his name.Mr. ACLAND
879primâ facie: I quite agree, and that was really the purport of my remarks. I wanted to point out the fact that application had only to be made to the Comptroller and Auditor-General and he was the proper person. If the conditions were as I have described, I cannot conceive that he would vexatiously refuse his consent, or do anything to unduly burden or worry officers of Departments. We seem to have had a 879primâ facieMr. ACLAND
812: I wish to make two points only. The first is, that I am perfectly certain that until the Government give way on the question of assisting this House in the examination of Estimates, that matter will continue to be pressed, and therefore it will be very much better for the Leader of the House to turn his great ability into the channel of seeing how it can be done instead of, I am afraid, constantly explaining to us why it cannot be done. It was a perfectly sound point when brought up by the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Banbury), and it remains a sound point that the Committees of this House on Estimates are just as hopeless really to produce the best results in helping this House as the Committee of Public Accounts would be without the assistance of the Controller and Auditor-General in the matter of the accounts which come before the House. I hope the Government will consent to try to work out a method of doing that instead of opposing it. Estimates become more and more complicated, and more and more important as this country realises more and more that it is comparatively a poor country very heavily taxed, instead of being, as we were before the War, a comparatively rich country rather moderately taxed, and if there is a method of helping the House which is put forward, not as a party method at all, but by every committee which is looking into it one after another, year after year, it is a matter that the Government should treat carefully. The only other thing I want to ask, in no controversial spirit, is this: Can the Leader of the House hold out any possi-
812Mr. ACLAND
: I have been in touch with the right hon. Gentleman with regard to time before Easter, and I accept from him that that is not possible. I shall not be Chairman of the new Committee, but I think they would like that on their behalf—they have not yet been set up—a claim should be pegged out at once for half days as soon after Easter as possible, and I understand that could be arranged.Mr. ACLAND
: On a point of Order, Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask if the hon. Member is in order in discussing all these subjects on this Amendment?Mr. HOHLER
: He is the only one.Sir H. CRAIK
: And no one in the spending Departments. It was not for the spending Departments, but for the Comptroller and Auditor-General alone.Sir H. CRAIK
: I think the right hon. Gentleman will agree that the only person who was the proper judge whether these papers were necessary or pertinent to the case at all was the Comptroller and Auditor-General.Sir H CRAIK
: While I congratulate the Leader of the House on the way in which he has met my hon. Friend, I cannot but express some doubt whether the Committee which he has sketched out is sufficiently large. No doubt the presence of a Judge as Chairman will ensure that great confidence is felt in it. I am glad also that it should contain a good business man, but I venture to suggest to my right hon. Friend the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee that we have seen there has been in some of the accounts submitted to us a considerable neglect of the older traditions of the Civil Service, and we have also found that those accustomed to ordinary business transactions sometimes neglect the severer, more methodical, and more secure rules that prevail in the Civil Service. I think, therefore, it would be a great pity if within the Committee there were not included someone representing the Comptroller and Auditor-General, or someone acquainted with the conditions and scrupulous habits of care and regularity which are considered essential in keeping public accounts. A business man in business life may adopt some course of procedure convenient to himself and the course of his business, which may be perfectly legitimate, but he may also forget what is present to the man who is accustomed to the administration of public offices, that rules must be strictly obeyed, that they cannot be put in force for one occasion only, and that a breach of precedent constitutes a very great danger. The Committee sketched by the Leader of the House is considerably lacking, in that there is no provision for anyone who will be acquainted with those traditions, either through the Civil Service, the Comptroller and Auditor-General, or the Committee on Public Accounts.Sir H. CRAIK
: Is it not the case that the public were represented on the committee that dealt with this matter not by any member of the public, but by the higher officials, who themselves were the beneficiaries?Sir H. CRAIK
: Are any reports made by these inspectors to the Home Office? If so, will they be laid on the Table?Sir J. BUTCHER
46. 753 asked the Prime Minister whether the Board of Education
753Sir J. BUTCHER
: If it does not accept that suggestion can it go to the Board of Education and get the scales fixed, or how are they fixed?Sir J. BUTCHER
: In cases where the scale laid down by the Board differs from that of the Burnham Committee, is the local authority at liberty to select which it chooses?Sir J. BUTCHER
53.  asked the Lord Privy Seal whether it is proposed to reappoint the Select Committee on National Expenditure; and, if so, whether it will be appointed at an early date in order that it may consider and report upon some of the Estimates for the coming year?Mr. MARRIOTT
822821: I am not going to follow my hon. Friend opposite in his eloquent maintenance of the rights of private Members, but in a few sentences I do want cordially to join in the appeal which has been made by the right hon. Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean) that the Government should appoint at
822821Mr. MARRIOTT
: Do you include the Railway Bill?Mr. MARRIOTT
73 and 74.  asked the Postmaster-General (1) if his attention has been drawn to a resolution passed by the Finance Committee of the Liverpool Corporation in regard to the proposed increase of telephone rates; is he aware that it is estimated that if these increases came into effect it would add some £7,000 to the rates; what steps does he propose to take in the matter;Mr. PENNEFATHER
20.  asked the Secretary of State for War why, in the official reports of ambushes of soldiers in Ireland, no mention is made of armoured protection for cars and lorries; and what percentage of military cars and lorries have, in fact, been provided with armoured protection?Mr. PENNEFATHER
9.  asked the Secretary of State for War if he is aware that one of the British prisoners recently released from Baku has since died, chiefly owing to ill-treatment received whilst in captivity; whether he can report on the condition of these prisoners when released; and whether any steps have been or are to be taken to impress on the Government responsible that British subjects may not with impunity be submitted to barbarous and degrading treatment by any foreign Power?Mr. CLOUGH
4.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Overseas Trade Department whether his latest information from any of the parts of the British Empire shows that, as a result of high prices, British goods have been suffering from foreign competition on a cheaper scale owing to rates of exchange and other causes; and, if so, in what direction of manufactured exports this tendency is most pronounced?Mr. CLOUGH
55.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer to give the gross and net amounts received from, and in each case indicate the cost of collecting, the following taxes during the first nine months of the present financial year: Income Tax, Super-tax, Excess Profits Duty, and the duties on sugar, tea, beer, spirits, wines, and entertainments?Mr. CLOUGH
: Do I understand then that the prevalent opinion that the United States were not willing to advance money direct to France and Italy unless Great Britain were prepared to back the bill and give the guarantee is not correct? Is that an erroneous impression?Sir W. DAVISON
60.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer what is the total amount of the loan from the United States of America to Great Britain; was any portion of such sum, and, if so, what portion, borrowed direct by the British Government; and what are the amounts for which the British Government are liable as guarantors in respect of loans from the United States through Great Britain to France, Italy, or other allied Powers?Sir W. DAVISON
: The flour stored at the Assembly Hall, Ferndale, was placed there not in September, 1919, as stated in the question, but in March, 1920. The whole of the flour, amounting to about 213 tons has been returned to the mills and no flour now remains in the building. The cost of transit to and from the mills totalled £298 0s. 7d. In July last the owners of the hall, which was lent to the Royal Commission on Wheat Supplies free of all rental charge, suggested that the hall might be wanted for the use of ex-service men, and arrangements were immediately made for part of the hall to be available for this purpose; since then no further communication on this subject has been received from the owners.Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
: I have been asked to reply. The amount referred to cannot be definitely ascertained until the millers' returns are completed, but a provisional estimate of the Ministry of Agriculture, based upon the quantity of wheat marketed, and upon the prices paid according to returns made under the Corn Returns Act, is approximately £150,000. This amount will be a charge upon the trading accounts of the Royal Commission on Wheat Supplies. It will not increase the price of the loaf.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY OF FOOD (Sir W. Mitchell-Thomson)
: I have no evidence that would confirm the suggestion made in the first part of the question. With regard to the second part, it is quite impracticable to fix a scale of maximum prices on an age basis, since it is impossible by analysis or by any other means to determine the actual age of any spirit as offered to the consumer.Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
34.  asked the Home Secretary whether the police have any instructions with reference to vehicles waiting in the streets of the Metropolitan area, having regard to the convenience of the public, the necesity of avoiding obstruction to traffic, and the convenience of those using the vehicles?Captain Viscount CURZON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that some of these vehicles are plying in provincial towns and are very popular and extremely comfortable?Viscount CURZON
36. 748 asked the Home Secretary whether applications for the
748Viscount CURZON
35.  asked the Home Secretary whether any decision has been come to with reference to the general use of the 24-hour clock?Viscount CURZON
3.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether Indian Army Order No. 868, of October, 1919, gave the expectation that the pay of certain specified services serving in India would shortly be raised; whether such increases have been retrospective from 1st July, 1919, and have taken place in the case of all these services except Royal Engineer officers serving with the sappers and miners; and whether any decision has now been arrived at in this matter?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
1.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he can give the House any information regarding recent or prospective reductions in the Indian Army?Sir J. D. REES
: Was not General Smuts a rebel at one time?Dr. MURRAY
19.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty if a decision has yet been arrived at as to whether the five years served on a short service agreement in those cases where a longer contract of service was not allowed on account of the age of the applicant can be considered as continuing service for award of service pension in cases where there has been a merely technical break of only a few days between the termination of this short service agreement and the commencement of a further term of over five years?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that many employers are sending work abroad deliberately in order to reduce wages in this country?Mr. J. JONES
27.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he can see his way to exercise the powers conferred upon him by the Industrial Courts Act, 1919, with a view to settling the dispute which has now been in existence over six months between the General Accident, Fire, and Life Assurance Corporation, Limited, and some of their employés, who allege that they are being victimised solely because of their desire to remain members of their insurance guild?Mr. T. THOMSON
: Who are satisfied?HON. MEMBERS
: Are you satisfied?Mr. J. JONES
: If it is shown that firms in England are sending ships abroad to be repaired, will the right hon. Gentleman undertake to have them struck off the Admiralty list of contractors?Mr. J. JONES
: They are on the Roll.Mr. JONES
37.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware that, although 109 duly certificated applications for training were submitted by the Cambridgeshire Local War Pensions Committee during the period September, 1919, to December, 1920, only 12 men have been placed in training; and what prospect there is of a more expeditious settling of these cases?Captain COOTE
: Is my right hon. Friend aware that in the cases of non-reply to letters to which he has referred, only a fortnight was allowed in which to reply before they were disqualified?Captain COOTE
39.  asked the Minister of Labour whether it is a desire for economy that prevents him from, with the help of statistical experts who are not themselves civil servants, undertaking an inquiry into the cost of living which would place the wages of organised labour and the salaries of the civil servants on a scientific basis as far as they are varied by the cost of living; whether such an inquiry would cost more than £200,000; and whether, in view of the numbers who would be affected, such a sum would be saved many times over in the course of a few months?Colonel NEWMAN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that it is not only the salaries and wages of the working classes, but it is the salaries of the civil servants which are affected, and is he aware that the general public place no confidence whatever in these monthly figures of the Department?Colonel NEWMAN
: Does that apply also to the officers in the Army and Navy who have had increases during the War?Mr. J. JONES
44.  asked the Minister of Health whether there has been any modification or limitation of the terms and conditions upon which financial aid is granted to local authorities under the Housing and Town Planning Acts, 1919 and 1920; and whether any curtailment of his original programme for the building of not less than 500,000 houses under these Acts is contemplated?Mr. T. THOMSON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman going to limit the number of houses built, provided he can get them built at a reasonable cost?Mr. THOMAS
: Are the eight names read to the House last week the full total of war criminals that, in the Government's judgment, meets the requirements of the election pledge?Mr. THOMAS
: "Hume-Williams."HON. MEMBERS
: Why is it the test cases are only made on the minor officials, and not on the main people who were responsible for the atrocities in connection with the late War?Mr. JONES
: Would it not help the British exchange if we carried out this milling in our own country instead of paying the American miller to do what we can well do ourselves?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
994: I beg to move, "That the Bill be now read a Second time."994The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
: There is one point perhaps the right hon. Gentleman can make a little more clear to me. What, if any, is to be the qualification between the two periods of receiving benefit? What is to be the qualification for receiving the benefit in the second period?Mr. CLYNES
995: The original qualification of 20 weeks' work. If a man has been employed 20 weeks since the 31st December, 1919, he will be eligible
995Dr. MACNAMARA
: If the first 16 weeks runs out in October, how much more work must a man put in before becoming entitled to the second 16 weeks?Mr. G. BARNES
996: None; it runs right on. The original 20 weeks' qualifying period of employment entitles him in the first place to 16 weeks' benefit to the end of October, and to another 16 weeks' benefit between October and the following July. The whole thing is covered by the 20 weeks' employment since the 31st December, 1919. That disposes of the civilian's case. Now I come to the ex-service men. They will have to show 10 weeks' employment since the 31st December, 1919; again, I think, a not unreasonable condition. I shall, if I may, propose an Amendment to my own suggestion that will secure that no deserving case of an ex-service man is ruled out because he has not been able to put in 10 weeks' employment up to the end of 1920. I have particularly in mind the case of men who joined the Colours before they really came into industry, and who had no industrial employment before they became soldiers. As regards unemployed disabled ex-service men, their case is specially dealt with. We propose to give the local employment committee—composed as to one-half of employers of labour, and as to the other half, of work-people—authority to deal with each case on its merits, waiving, if needs be, the employment qualification of ten weeks, which is the general provision for fit men. That is the general scheme for this Bill. After June, 1922, the permanent provision comes in under which the unemployed get 26 weeks' benefit in the year instead of 15 weeks. I should explain further as regards the ex-service men that this new Bill does not take away any of the rights to donation to which ex-service men are at present entitled. Those who are still within a year of their discharge from the forces, and were discharged not later than the 31st July last, will still be entitled to donation on their
996Dr. MACNAMARA
: Supposing a man has been in employment 20 weeks, and then falls out, he is entitled to 16 weeks' benefit up to October of this year. Assume that the 16th week was drawn in the last week of September. Would that man, without any further employment, go on immediately to get the fresh 16 weeks from the first week in October?Mr. HOGGE
: I think there might be a hiatus of a week, but he would not have to start with a new qualification. Having the 20 weeks' qualification during 1920, he would be eligible for 16 weeks' benefit up to the end of October, but if it was exhausted prior to that there would be a hiatus and he would then go on for another 16 weeks from that date to the following July. There will be no new qualification demanded.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Will there necessarily be any hiatus. Supposing the man was drawing his 16th unemployment week in the last week of October, would he draw the 17th week on the first week in. November?Mr. HOGGE
: Yes.Dr. MACNAMARA
997: We are told that exceptional cases are to be exceptionally
997Mr. CLYNES
1000"The position of the Fund after July, 1922, must of course be governed by the rate of unemployment then prevailing. It is probable that when the rate of unemployment returns to its normal level the rates of contribution now proposed will be found to be more than sufficient to provide for the liabilities as enlarged by the present increase of benefit and the extension of the benefit period from 15 weeks to 26 weeks. If normal conditions are restored within the period over which the Bill is to have effect it will be for consideration whether the contributions can be reduced, in the exercise of the powers conferred upon the Minister, with the consent of the Treasury, by Clause 2 (3)."999998d.1⅛d.d.2½d.d.2d.…Girls
d.1⅛d.d.2½d.d.2d.…Girlsd.1¾d.d.3d.d.2½d.…Boys
d.1¾d.d.3d.d.2½d.…Boysd.2¼d.d.5d.d.4d.…Women
d.2¼d.d.5d.d.4d.…Womend.2¾d.d.6d.d.5d.…Men
d.2¾d.d.6d.d.5d.…MenFrom the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
From the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
d.1⅛d.d.2½d.d.2d.…Girls
d.1⅛d.d.2½d.d.2d.…Girlsd.1¾d.d.3d.d.2½d.…Boys
d.1¾d.d.3d.d.2½d.…Boysd.2¼d.d.5d.d.4d.…Women
d.2¼d.d.5d.d.4d.…Womend.2¾d.d.6d.d.5d.…Men
d.2¾d.d.6d.d.5d.…MenFrom the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
From the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—d.1d.d.2d.d.1½d.…Girls
d.1d.d.2d.d.1½d.…Girlsd.1⅓d.d.2d.d.2d.…Boys
d.1⅓d.d.2d.d.2d.…Boysd.1⅔d.d.3½d.d.3d.…Women
d.1⅔d.d.3½d.d.3d.…Womend.2d.d.4d.d.4d.…Men
d.2d.d.4d.d.4d.…MenFrom the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
From the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
d.1d.d.2d.d.1½d.…Girls
d.1d.d.2d.d.1½d.…Girlsd.1⅓d.d.2d.d.2d.…Boys
d.1⅓d.d.2d.d.2d.…Boysd.1⅔d.d.3½d.d.3d.…Women
d.1⅔d.d.3½d.d.3d.…Womend.2d.d.4d.d.4d.…Men
d.2d.d.4d.d.4d.…MenFrom the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
From the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—: They go to the Employment Committee, as provided in Clause 3. I now come to the amount of weekly benefit. Under last year's Act, this was 15s. a week in the case of men, 12s. in the case of women, and half those amounts respectively for children, that is to say, 7s. 6d. for boys and 6s. for girls. We find that we can, with the resources at our disposal and the additional income from the increased contributions which we propose in the Bill, make that benefit 18s. a week for men, 15s. for women, 9s. for boys and 7s. 6d. for girls. With the addition of not less than 5s. for men and 4s. for women—which is the scheme of the original Act—from trade unions and friendly societies who become our agents, the benefits, in those cases in which trade unions or friendly societes become our agents, will be 23s. a week for men, 19s. for women, 11s. 6d. for boys, and 9s. 6d. for girls. The weekly contributions under the existing Act—I am sure the House would wish to follow this in close detail—are as follow:
1000"The position of the Fund after July, 1922, must of course be governed by the rate of unemployment then prevailing. It is probable that when the rate of unemployment returns to its normal level the rates of contribution now proposed will be found to be more than sufficient to provide for the liabilities as enlarged by the present increase of benefit and the extension of the benefit period from 15 weeks to 26 weeks. If normal conditions are restored within the period over which the Bill is to have effect it will be for consideration whether the contributions can be reduced, in the exercise of the powers conferred upon the Minister, with the consent of the Treasury, by Clause 2 (3)."999998d.1⅛d.d.2½d.d.2d.…Girls
d.1⅛d.d.2½d.d.2d.…Girlsd.1¾d.d.3d.d.2½d.…Boys
d.1¾d.d.3d.d.2½d.…Boysd.2¼d.d.5d.d.4d.…Women
d.2¼d.d.5d.d.4d.…Womend.2¾d.d.6d.d.5d.…Men
d.2¾d.d.6d.d.5d.…MenFrom the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
From the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
d.1⅛d.d.2½d.d.2d.…Girls
d.1⅛d.d.2½d.d.2d.…Girlsd.1¾d.d.3d.d.2½d.…Boys
d.1¾d.d.3d.d.2½d.…Boysd.2¼d.d.5d.d.4d.…Women
d.2¼d.d.5d.d.4d.…Womend.2¾d.d.6d.d.5d.…Men
d.2¾d.d.6d.d.5d.…MenFrom the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
From the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—d.1d.d.2d.d.1½d.…Girls
d.1d.d.2d.d.1½d.…Girlsd.1⅓d.d.2d.d.2d.…Boys
d.1⅓d.d.2d.d.2d.…Boysd.1⅔d.d.3½d.d.3d.…Women
d.1⅔d.d.3½d.d.3d.…Womend.2d.d.4d.d.4d.…Men
d.2d.d.4d.d.4d.…MenFrom the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
From the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
d.1d.d.2d.d.1½d.…Girls
d.1d.d.2d.d.1½d.…Girlsd.1⅓d.d.2d.d.2d.…Boys
d.1⅓d.d.2d.d.2d.…Boysd.1⅔d.d.3½d.d.3d.…Women
d.1⅔d.d.3½d.d.3d.…Womend.2d.d.4d.d.4d.…Men
d.2d.d.4d.d.4d.…MenFrom the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—
From the State.From Employer.From Employed Person.—Dr. MACNAMARA
: Are we to understand that the present proportion of unemployment is 13 per cent., while the calculation is based upon 9½ per cent.?Major BARNES
d1001: The present proportion of insured persons unemployed—taking out the 1,750,000 who, it may be assumed, will find their way into special schemes—is 13 per cent. I have based my estimate on the presumption that there will be, during the whole period, an average of 9½ per cent. of insured persons unemployed, throwing out the same 1,750,000 for the purpose of special schemes. As I have said, I cannot think that that is not a sound basis upon which to calculate the financial obligations with
d1001Dr. MACNAMARA
: You are making it now in the case of ex-service men.Major BARNES
1003: No, not under the Insurance Act. That is the original out-of-work donation policy. It is not being made in insurance. It is extremely difficult to apply and no less difficult to justify in a complusory contributory insurance scheme. The single man pays the same contribution as the married man and he is entitled to the same return. I do not think you could vary the employers' contribution in the respective cases under consideration. A case might be made for varying the State contribution, but in any case to embark upon the differentiation involves far more complication than, frankly, we have time for in the present grave emergency. We must get on at once with the provision now so urgently necessary, and I hope my right hon. Friend and his Friends will not press the point of differentiation in this compulsory contributory Unemployment Act. I listened with interest to the speech my right hon. Friend made in moving the First Reading of what I may call the Labour party's Bill. I earnestly ask him and his friends to give us this Bill as promptly as the House reasonably can. I know my hon. Friends opposite will say they want something on a larger scale. It is perfectly obvious from the speech which was made in introducing their Bill. Having said so, I hope they will let us get on with this Bill because of the urgent necessity for it.1003Dr. MACNAMARA
: What about hired men in Governments Departments; will they be put under this new scheme or not?Sir B. FALLE
: If they are in the original Act of 1920, as I assume they are, of course they will get all the benefits to which this Act applies.Dr. MACNAMARA
1005ad hoc1004: I think everyone who has listened to my right hon. Friend's speech will agree that he has made it as plain as he could possibly make a statement of
1005ad hoc1004Mr. HOGGE
: No, the Treasury. It has nothing to do with the Insurance Act.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Let me understand it. The ex-service man will continue to receive his 20s., but for how many weeks? Does it mean that he will only receive it for the 16 weeks up to October, and then another 10 weeks, from October to July, 1922?Mr. HOGGE
: If I am right, I think there is something that wants examination. Supposing the Act gets the Royal Assent, say, at the end of this month, that would mean that there would be ten months of this year and six months of 1922 to run for these men. That would be 16 months. If we assume, as I am afraid we must assume in regard to a great number of these men, that they have not found work for themselves, and no work has been found for them, does that mean that out of, roughly, 70 weeks the ex-service man will only be eligible for 32 donations? If I am right, and my right hon. Friend agrees I am right, in the point I am making, I would like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that, in spite of the provision made by my right hon. Friend, the House is not going to do complete justice to the ex-service man who has not yet got work and who cannot find work because of the growing unemployment.Mr. HOGGE
: All the extensions which have been granted in the past have been granted for a period of weeks less than the period of the extension. That is to say, the extension granted from the 8th November to the 31st March was an extension of 15 weeks.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I am not trying to make a point against the Bill. I was only trying to point out that if that is so with regard to the ex-service men, my right hon. Friend might look into it further in order to provide that these men for whom the Government have not found work, and who have not been able to find work for themselves, will still have that maintenance for that longer period of time. The last point I wish to make is that I do not quite appreciate how much the Government is doing, how much the Treasury is doing, for the relief of unemployment in this Bill. My right hon. Friend referred to the £20,000,000 which have been accumulated from the contributions of those who have been contributing under the Act. He says that by July, 1922, no less than £16,000,000 of that money will be absorbed in the new benefits. That is to say, that the Government are making available in further benefits the money which has been contributed by those who are contributors to the scheme. What is the Government doing?Mr. HOGGE
: If my hon. Friend will look at the actuary's report, paragraph 9, he will see that the increased contributions by the State under the new Bill will amount to a net annual cost to the Treasury of £781,000. Further and above that, the 2s. per week in respect of each ex-service man to bringing the 18s. up to 20s. will be paid by the Treasury. That will cost £30,000 a week, and up to June, 1922, the cost will be £2,000,000. Therefore the Treasury contribution is twofold, an annual additional charge of £781,000 on account of the increased contributions, and a charge of £2,000,000 to bring the ex-service men's benefit from 18s. to 20s. up to July, 1922.Dr. MACNAMARA
1007: I am much obliged and that would be my criticism, that this proposal on behalf of the Government does not amount to very much. I do not think my right hon. Firend can take special note of the £2,000,000 in respect of the ex-service men. He must do that. The Government is pledged, we are all pledged to do that. We said definitely with regard to the ex-service men that we would either find them work or find them donations. The £2,000,000 which my right hon. Friend talks about is the 2s. extra required to make up the 18s. which the ex-service man would get from the Govern-
1007Mr. HOGGE
: Plus the £2,000,000.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have given you the £2,000,000. It is an easy thing to make a show with other people's money, which is what my right hon. Friend is doing. The £16,000,000 does not belong to him. It belongs to the contributors who put it there. The £2,000,000 we would have to pay on account of the discharged ex-service men. Therefore I do not think the Government are entitled to any particular credit for that. What this Bill amounts to is that the Government, apart from the discharged men to whom we are giving £2,000,000, are making an extra contribution towards unemployment of £750,000 only. My right hon. Friend remembers that he has indicated figures to this House showing that the unemployed to-day are well over 1,000,000. It seems to me ridiculous to ask the House to agree to a Second Reading of this Bill, at any rate if it means that we think we are solving or doing much to solve the problem.Mr. HOGGE
10091008: I should like to ask one or two questions with reference to the Bill. Before I do so, may I say that I entirely agree with those who have said so often that we ought to try and have a solution of this question on a permanent basis. You have only to look at the history of the last twelve months in which we have passed, or will have passed when this Bill becomes an Act, three Unemployment Insurance Acts. That is piece-meal legislation, good legislation, if I may say so, as far as it goes, but it is certainly not put forward by my right hon. Friend as a final solution, nor can it be anything like a final solution of the question. At the same time, do not let us be ungrateful. In the last 12 months, I believe, more advance has been made than has ever been made before, and the fact he told us to-night, that 8,000,000 people
10091008Sir EDWARD CARSON
: Yes.Dr. MACNAMARA
1010: That is satisfactory. May I also ask whether the setting up of these 16 weeks in each of these periods takes away, or in any way interferes with, paragraph (2) of the Second Schedule of the principal Act, which not only provides for the 15 weeks, but for such other period as may be prescribed? Supposing the necessity arises for prescribing another period, will that remain in the hands of my right hon. Friend or of the Government as well as the right to give
1010Sir E. CARSON
1011: Like my right hon. Friend with whose sympathetic speech I agree, I want this Bill to pass through as speedily as possible. I congratulate the Minister of Labour on having introduced a Bill which is a great improvement on the existing Insurance Act and carries us one step nearer to a solution, not of the problem of unemployment, in the way of providing work, but in the way of making some provision for periods of unemployment. I am grateful for that step having been taken, and I do not, like my hon. Friend opposite, believe in throwing stones at the Bill. There is a sum of £781,000 a year from this Bill. Added to that is the sum of £2,000,000 which has been spent from the Treasury funds on the ex-soldier. There is also the sums which have been spent under the Acts which have been passed previously to this one. Therefore, it is true to say that up to date probably some millions, I do not know how many millions, but probably £10,000,000 of public money will have been involved, spent or to be spent, by next year in the relief of unemployment. When I heard my hon. Friend speaking, the thought that occurred to me was one of comparison between now and the time when
1011Mr. G. BARNES
: Over £20,000,000.Dr. MACNAMARA
: There will be the contributions of the State up to July next year, when the fund is to be depleted to £4,000,000 or £5,000,000. That gives one a serious thought as to the soundness of the Bill from the actuarial point of view; but I do not attach much importance to that. We have now got to the stage when unemployment insurance benefit is at certain standards, and if the actuarial figures do not come out in such a way as to pay benefit at those standards, we have always the Treasury behind us. Therefore, I am not going to worry my head about the amount, because I live in the sure and certain hope that if the fund is exhausted in July next year the Treasury, or whatever Government may be in office, would have to continue the benefit.Mr. BARNES
: No.Dr. MACNAMARA
: He subscribes as a taxpayer towards the money provided by the Government to finance this Bill.Mr. BARNES
: Certainly.Dr. MACNAMARA
1012: Therefore I want to see him take his share as well as other people. The Bill may be said to be in two parts, the increased amount of benefit and the extension of time. I attach the most
1012Mr. BARNES
: It would just wipe it out.Dr. MACNAMARA
1013: I want to say a word about the machinery of the Bill, and especially the ex-soldier, because I gather that you are going to pay benefit to the ex-soldier who is not disabled if he has had ten weeks' work as from the beginning, of last year. There is nothing much to be said against that. A man ought to have been in a position to get ten weeks in that period, seeing that in eight or nine months of
1013Mr. BARNES
: We give discretion.Dr. MACNAMARA
1014: You give discretion to the local committees. I want to say something about these local committees and the position of the labour exchanges generally. At every labour exchange there is a local committee. I had the honour to preside over a committee last year which went very fully into the matter of employment exchanges and also committees. We had the advantage of taking evidence from those who had been in the public Press and elsewhere advocating the abolition of the employment exchange, with, of course, the abolition of the local committees, since they hang on the employment exchanges. Such a suggestion could not be made by anyone who knows anything about the industrial mechanism of this country. The labour exchanges are to the Unemployment Insurance Act what the doctor is to the Health Insurance Act. They have to see that the man gets his benefit under proper conditions, and under conditions that safeguard the State, just the same as the doctor operates in regard to the sick man.1014Mr. BARNES
: I congratulate the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Barnes) on the fact that during his speech the anti-waste party were absent from the House, because had they heard that he was prepared to ask the Treasury to come in with £5,000,000 more, as there was not enough money to be found for the Bill, I think that certainly he would not have been allowed to remain standing, and might have lost his seat. I have risen not to criticise this Bill. I agree entirely with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Barnes) that it is vital that this Bill should be hurried through with the least possible delay, and I feel, what I think more and more members of this House are beginning to feel, that when this problem is grappled with permanently it must be put on the basis of industry providing its own unemployment insurance. Members of the Labour party are more and more coming round to that view.Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: No.Mr. WATERSON
1015: I have not read the speeches of the hon. Gentleman, but I have read some of his colleagues' speeches indicating the policy which I have endeavoured, long before this Bill was brought before the House, to bring forward, is being considered. The reason I feel so strongly that industry itself should be responsible itself for unemployment is that it is not for the ultimate good of the country that the State, even if only to a fractional degree, should intervene in order to provide for distressed industry which may be caused by inefficiency of management or workmanship or ca' canny. I believe that ultimately the solution of the question, when we grapple with it in a big way, will be
1015Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Suppose it is a bankrupt concern?Mr. DEVLIN
1016: I do not want to go at length into this, because it would take time, but if it were a bankrupt concern it would come upon the whole of the industry. I do not believe you are ever going to solve the question of greater production until you have in the widest possible manner solved this question of unemployment. You will never get the greater production that the enlightened leaders of labour demand until once for all the worker feels that he is not liable to be thrown on the streets through no fault of his own in a time of temporary distress.1016Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
10181017: I am sure that with one exception up to now, the right hon. Gentleman can feel that in what he has done this afternoon by the introduction of this Bill, he will receive general support. I was a little surprised at the
10181017Mr. SEDDON
1022102110201019: Those of us who administer the Unemployment Insurance Act were deeply concerned to know what the provisions of this Bill would be. We were concerned, first, because a great many of those who have been receiving benefit under the Act were finding their benefit lapsing and they, had nothing before them except starvation—starvation with the little assistance that the existing Act gave to them. We were deeply concerned, secondly, as to whether or not and to what extent the benefit payable under the Bill would be larger than that now existing. We are gratified to learn that there is to be an extension of the time during which payment is to be made under the old Act, but we are bitterly disappointed at the small increase in the benefit in the new Bill. We who are administering the Act come into close contact with great numbers of workers,
1022102110201019Mr. HALLAS
10241023: The Government cannot complain of the way in which this Bill has been received by the House, and I certainly shall do nothing to show any want of sympathy with the objects of the Government, but I should like to make one or two criticisms on the machinery of the Bill. I was very delighted to hear my hon. Friend who has just sat down saying he hoped the time would come when doles from the State would cease to exist. This Bill is giving a further very large sum out of the coffers of the State towards unemployment insurance. Under the existing law the State pays 2d. a week for about 12,000,000 people, and that works out at about £100,000 a week. Under this Bill it is proposed to pay ¾d. more, and that works out at about £40,000 a week extra, which comes to over £2,000,000 a year. I do really feel that these State grants ought to come to an end. My hon. Friend the Member for Silvertown (Mr. J. Jones), who I do not see here at the moment, is in the habit of accusing hon. Members on these Benches of trying to cut down Government expenditure when it is a case of social reform. Personally, I, and many of my hon. Friends, have over and over again voted against increased military expenditure, and I hope we shall continue to do so when we think right, but I do not for a moment want to suggest that these unemployment benefits should be dropped. In fact, I want to make a proposal under which these benefits, without any contribution from the State, can be slightly increased. After all, if this large sum of money were offered to the Labour party through the machinery of
10241023Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
10291028102710261025: I should like to join with the other hon. Members who have spoken on this question in congratulating the House on the spirit in which the House has approached this problem. It seems to me that the House of Commons never presents itself in a more splendid light
10291028102710261025Mr. DEVLIN
103210311030: I think my right hon. Friend the Minister of Labour
103210311030Mr. GEORGE ROBERTS
: Yes, that is so.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of LABOUR (Sir M. Barlow)
10341033: I believed that was correct. Therefore I think we must face it If the benefit is to be increased to 20s., and to women proportionately, some additional contribution will have to be made by either the employer, the workman, or the State. It must be clear that the increase of the benefit to 20s. would go far to upset the basis of the scheme as now framed. There is this further fact. Whilst 15 weeks might meet the average case, revertheless the extension of the period may be advantageous to some of the harder cases, and I think that has always been the justification of the trade unions in spreading the benefit over an extended period rather than paying a large sum for a limited period.10341033Mr. ROBERTS
103710361035"The common sorrows, the common anxieties, the common sufferings of the War bound us together when the enemy was at the gate to common effort, common determination, common purpose. The enemy at the gate is no longer the enemy of 1914–18. The enemy at the gate is want, misery and distress. Many individuals, many institutions of men and women, social and religious, are to-day graciously supplementing the efforts of the central authority and the local authorities. I simply wanted to say to them from this Bench before I sat down, 'Thank you.' And to commend their noble efforts to all those who for the time being have it in their power to give a hand to those who for the time being may be down and out."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 21st December, 1920; cols. 1585–6; Vol. 136.]: I rise to express my keen disappointment at the nature of this Bill which has been introduced by the right hon. Gentleman, and its total inadequacy to deal with the problem. I well remember a discussion on 21st December last, and I was very much struck with the concluding remarks of the Labour Minister upon that occasion, when introducing his proposals for dealing with unemployment. So much was I struck with it that I think it is well worth repetition. The right hon. Gentleman said:
103710361035"The common sorrows, the common anxieties, the common sufferings of the War bound us together when the enemy was at the gate to common effort, common determination, common purpose. The enemy at the gate is no longer the enemy of 1914–18. The enemy at the gate is want, misery and distress. Many individuals, many institutions of men and women, social and religious, are to-day graciously supplementing the efforts of the central authority and the local authorities. I simply wanted to say to them from this Bench before I sat down, 'Thank you.' And to commend their noble efforts to all those who for the time being have it in their power to give a hand to those who for the time being may be down and out."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 21st December, 1920; cols. 1585–6; Vol. 136.]Mr. HAYDAY
: They ought to be at school.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
104010391038: I know they ought, and their parents ought to be subsidised for any loss of wages from these children between 14 and 16 years who are completing their education, or at least getting a better one. The fact we have to face, however, is that they come in at 14 years of age, and at 16 years they commence to qualify for unemployment pay. Our experience, in the case of a large family with children somewhere about those ages, is that that is just the time when they require a great deal of the most beneficial food so that they may grow up strong and sound and that the blood may flow healthily through their system. They are cut out, however, and that is an extra burden. There is the loss of their earnings because they are thrown out of employment, and there is the loss of income whilst they are unemployed through their having been debarred from contributing to the unemployment fund. Some scale ought to be fixed which would affect the average earnings of people such as that.104010391038Mr. HAYDAY
10421041: I wish to congratulate, the House on the spirit in which the Debate has been conducted throughout, and to express our appreciation of the way in which the Bill has been received. I will deal with half-a-dozen or so of the chief points raised, but before I do that may I reply to one or two criticisms from the hon. Member for West Nottingham, who has just sat down. He referred, in some criticism—to put it no higher—to the amount of money which had been put at our disposal by the Government for dealing with this matter. We have to differentiate clearly between the amount of money paid out in connection with the Unemployment Insurance Act and this Bill. A very much larger amount is available for this whole question of unemployment. Do not lot us confine our view to the Unemployment Bill and to the Act of last year. Very large sums in other directions have been made available. There was the whole £40,000,000 for the donation for ex-service men, and the £22,000,000 for civilians during the first year. That is £62,000,000 alone. When criticism is offered on the amount put at our disposal by the Government for dealing with the evil of unemployment, we must take all these sums into our purview, and not
10421041Sir M. BARLOW
: But the ratio of joint contribution to the payment bears no comparison with what the trade union does.Mr. HAYDAY
bénéficiaire.: My hon. Friend must remember that these arrangements are made subject to the condition which appears in the Bill, that the whole of the rates—both the contribution and the benefit—are to be reconsidered at the end of the statutory period. A point was made on the question of differentiation. I was very glad to hear the speech of the right hon. Member for Norwich (Mr. Roberts) with regard to the question of having separate rates for married men and single men. This is a point which has been much debated in the past. It is also one which figures prominently in the programme of the Labour party. It surely must be obvious, if there is to be a differentiation of benefit, you cannot have a flat rate contribution. The two things seem to be linked together, and, inevitably, directly you begin to discriminate in the benefit against one particular class of the bénéficiaire.Sir M. BARLOW
: Does that apply to education as well?Mr. R. GRAHAM
bénéficiaire: It cannot be suggested that the child who is educated at the expense of the State contributes to the cost. We are dealing with the case where the bénéficiaireSir M. BARLOW
: But the parents do pay for the education of their children by taxation.Mr. GRAHAM
bénéficiairebénéficiaire: The question of State taxation is another matter, and I will admit that the benefits derived from State assistance do vary in the case of different people. But we are talking on a different subject altogether. We are dealing with the question of contributory insurance, a case in which a contribution has to be made by the bénéficiairebénéficiaireSir M. BARLOW
: I think not.Mr. GRAHAM
: Well, my opinion is in the opposite direction and I think the majority of the Members of the House will probably agree with me. Assume for a moment I am right—the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Norwich took up the same position—then it would inevitably follow, if you have a larger contribution from one man than from another, you also will have to have a larger contribution from the employer of that man and then you will get this position—there will inevitably be pressure in the market against the employment of married men. That is what we want to avoid, and I suggest that it is almost fatal to the proposal for differentiation.Sir M. BARLOW
: Could it not be got over by simply increasing the State contribution and not having a differential rate for married men and for single men?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: All that is a matter for consideration, but this is a question of great urgency and I must ask hon. and right hon. Gentlemen to realise that we must get this Bill through as rapidly as possible. The question of differentiation involves wide considerations. It has been urged by several speakers that the time has come for a general review of the whole situation. If we can secure such a review by means of common accord and effort, I shall welcome it, but I am not at all certain that our last efforts to secure the assistance of hon. Members opposite in order to review the whole situation were very successful. We asked them to come along and try on the basis of common accord to review it, but unfortunately they felt themselves bound to refuse the invitation.Sir M. BARLOW
: That was with reference to the boot and shoe industry.Mr. WATERSON
: If a review of the whole situation is possible it will have to take a very broad outlook. It must, for instance, take into consideration the whole question of the Poor Law. If that is done it may be possible to consider the differentiation of the rates and have the question properly discussed, but, apart from that, this legislation we are now promoting is especially urgent.Sir M. BARLOW
: Can the hon. Gentleman say something about contracting out?Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPS0N
: That point is dealt with in Section 17. I have listened to what has been said about it very carefully, but the hon. Gentleman who raised it did not indicate in what direction he contemplated action.Sir M. BARLOW
: Various difficulties have arisen. It is almost impossible, for instance, to define what an industry is for the purposes of the Act. An industry cannot come under the contracting-out Clause unless it is organised, and, again, the difficulty arises, what is actually meant by an industry being organised. There are various other difficulties, but it comes to this, that practically there is no contracting out at all.Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: It has been stated over and over again from this Bench, and I believe it to be the view of the House, that every encouragement ought to be given to any arrangement whereby an industry may be self-supporting in the matter of unemployment insurance. My hon. Friend is, therefore, pushing a door which is already open when he suggests that this is a policy to which every encouragement should be given. We are entirely with him on that point. If he will put before my right hon. Friend and myself any suggestions of a practical character for making this Clause more workable, they will receive our most earnest attention. We are anxious to give every facility to industries to carry out this arrangement of being self-supporting. I am sure, however, that my hon. Friend appreciates the difficulty. If you are going to allow parties to contract out, the State must see that they are properly defined, and that, when they take upon themselves this burden of insurance, they do so in a way which will be permanent and enduring. Therefore, quite rightly, the burden of inquiry is put upon the Ministry of Labour.Sir M. BARLOW
1046: I only desire to refer to one point, which is rather important. There is no limitation, as far as I am aware, to the benefit paid to those who are obtaining partial employment. There must be many thousands at the present time who, although they are receiving far more than they received in pre-War times—in some cases, twice as much—are only working for half the week, and for the remainder of the week are receiving unemployment pay. I do not for a moment desire to save that
1046Mr. MARSHALL STEVENS
1050104910481047: I am glad to have this opportunity of almost confidential intercourse with the Minister who is in charge of this Bill. I want him, as we all do, to get the Bill, and I am sure that nothing will help towards that end more quickly than a little intimation on his part that he is going to follow the general policy of the Government, and yield a little to a little gentle pressure. There is only one thing upon which the Government are really adamant, and that is in not giving an inquiry in regard to Ireland. On almost on every other subject they do meet the House to a considerable extent. I want to help the right hon. Gentleman, if I can, to, so to speak, grease the way, so that he can launch his little concession, and I am, therefore, presenting him with a few arguments for it. In the first place, there is no opposition in the House to the maintenance allowance that is to be given under this Bill. A strong appeal has been made from this side of the House, and it has been indicated to the Minister by important speakers on the other side that they think he might have increased the allowance to at least 20s. That is one good reason why the Government should give way, namely, that there is no opposition to their giving way. A Committee of this House, dealing with this question some six months ago, actually put into the Bill then before them a provision for an allowance of 20s. The Minister on
1050104910481047Major BARNES
105310521051: I do not begrudge a single word of the praise which has been expressed from both sides of the House as to the personal service rendered by the right hon. Gentleman and his principal colleagues at the Ministry of Labour in relation to this Bill and the general problem of unemployment. But I cannot allow this Debate to conclude without trying to express what is on this side of the House a sense of real disappointment at a measure of this kind being offered by the Government as any kind of remedy for unemployment problems. If it is inaccurate to describe it as a remedy, what is it? It is at best some little extension of that process of almsgiving which has done duty in legislation for the very far-reaching promises of those who have spoken for the Government outside this House, and I think we are entitled to repeat our protest against the method of the Government in dealing with this question. That method is to use the vehicle of the King's Speech, to use the principal pronouncements of the Prime Minister, to create in the minds of the unemployed the belief that, given authority and given power and backing, the Government would solve this problem,
105310521051Mr. CLYNES
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware of the fact that we have already drawn in advance up to the extent of £8,000,000,000?Mr. A. HOPKINSON
: I am scarcely to blame for that.Mr. CLYNES
: I throw no blame on the right hon. Gentleman, but I suggest that, having pledged the future to the extent of £8,000,000,000, it would be extremely unwise to pledge it any further.Mr. HOPKINSON
1054: The point I am putting is that this can be done without adding a single farthing to the enormous debt to which the right hon. Gentleman has referred. What I am suggesting is this. We assert that there is to be a period of trade prosperity and normal trade conditions. I think we ought to have something more than a hope of it. I have a haunting aspiration. The fact is that the Bill itself is designed to draw upon the reserves which have accumulated to the credit of unemployment insurance during normal times. There has been a large accumulation of money upon which the right hon. Gentleman is now drawing, and my proposal would not mean employers paying any more or the
1054Mr. CLYNES
: As a matter of fact, my own workmen insure themselves to a very much greater extent than they can under this Bill. That is not my doing; it is their doing.Mr. A. HOPKINSON
1055: I am certain the workmen of my hon. Friend have not done that without his assistance, with sufficient help and guidance from him, as an employer of labour, and that is one of our difficulties in dealing with this question. The law must compel the less good type of employer to do what the better type of employer does on his own initiative. There are few good employers who can go far ahead of the worst type of employer, and legislation is required to compel those who will not of their own accord bring themselves somewhat into line with the better type of employer in the country. I know that the Government have had some information, if not in full detail, at least in general terms, of a scheme under which, by a some-
1055Mr. CLYNES
10571056: I have only a few words to say. I was rather sorry to listen to the concluding words of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, because up to this point I had felt, and felt strongly, with the hon. Member for Newcastle (Major Barnes), that we had made this afternoon a very real
10571056Mr. MARRIOTT
10591058: During the earlier course of the Debate from all sides of the House came an appeal to the Minister that he should realise the inadequacy of this particular measure as an emergency measure, and that he should deal with the question in a comprehensive manner as soon as possible. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Duncairn referred to the fact that within the last 12 months this was the third unemployment Bill which the Government had introduced, and on each occasion when the larger issue was pressed upon them, they have excused themselves by saying that this was a measure to deal with the pressing problem of the moment and did not pretend to deal with the larger issue. I would like to ask the right hon. Gentleman when are the Government going to bring in their measure or their measures for dealing in a comprehensive way with
10591058Mr. TREVELYAN THOMSON
: Of the insured persons.Dr. MACNAMARA
106210611060: The insured persons surely are an illustration of the rest of the country. Because they are insured they are the ones who are more likely to have a heavy rate, heavier than those who are not insured. The reason why the right hon. Gentleman excluded two classes from the insured people, namely, domestic servants and agricultural workers, was that the unemployment in those two classes was so small that they need not come into a general scheme. Therefore, if the amount of unemploy-
106210611060Mr. THOMSON
: I can only speak by leave of the House, and I desire——Dr. MACNAMARA
: Better wait until somebody else speaks.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
10651064"This Act shall come into operation on the Thursday next after the passing there-of."1063: I hope that I have the, indulgence of the House. I want to thank the House for the generally kind spirit which prevailed in this Debate. My right hon. Friend the Member for Miles
10651064"This Act shall come into operation on the Thursday next after the passing there-of."1063Dr. MACNAMARA
1069"It is the business of the world, and above all the business of this country, which has lead the world in international commerce, which has shown it the way, and which has always had the courage, enterprise, and foresight to see it through, and it is the business again of this country to lead the way."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 17th February, 1921; col. 420; Vol. 138.]"We have now come to a time when we have to depend on the ordinary machinery of commerce. It is not there."106810671066: I do not think that the Minister of Labour listened with very great attention—an unusual thing with him—to the remarks, very much appreciated on this side of the House, of the Parliamentary Secretary, who said that he was always glad to receive practical suggestions from hon. Members. I do not think the right hon. Gentleman heard that remark, because he rose so quickly and so early in the evening to speak a second time while there were still one or two who might offer practical suggestions that would be of some value. They will be in the OFFICIAL REPORT, and I hope that his permanent officials will read them even, if he pays no attention to thorn. My first suggestion refers to sea-ports. The right hon. Gentleman at one time expressed a great affection for the sea and all its works, and I hope my suggestion will appeal to him. In the sea-ports there is a difficulty in the case of sailors who have to go to the employment exchanges, which are usually in the centre of the town. The officials at the exchanges start work comparatively late in the morning, and if the sailors attend to register their names they often miss the chance of getting a ship. The shipping offices, I am afraid, do not look very much to the
1069"It is the business of the world, and above all the business of this country, which has lead the world in international commerce, which has shown it the way, and which has always had the courage, enterprise, and foresight to see it through, and it is the business again of this country to lead the way."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 17th February, 1921; col. 420; Vol. 138.]"We have now come to a time when we have to depend on the ordinary machinery of commerce. It is not there."106810671066Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
10741073107210711070: I have a very sincere and very deep interest in the subject which is before the House. In my own constituency I have at the present moment 1,000 men entirely out of employment. I have 19,000 men working from two to three days a week, and, at the end of this week, 10,000 of these men will, I presume, be permanently unemployed, because they have been served with 14 days' notice to terminate their contracts, and these contracts will terminate on Saturday. These men are
10741073107210711070Mr. G. BARKER
1075: This Debate has ranged over a very large number of subjects, and hon. Members remarks have not been confined to the Unemployment Insurance Act (1921) Amendment Bill. The Debate on these topics has proceeded so long that I think perhaps it will be conferring a favour on the Minister of Transport if a little further time is occupied on them. I propose to answer quite shortly one of the many questions put by the hon. Member (Mr. G. Barker) as to how a slump in the coal trade has come about. This may not be so germane as many of the questions which have been discussed this afternoon, but the hon. Member for Abertillery is entirely ignorant of the conditions which apply to his own industry, and I propose to
1075Mr. INSKIP
: Will the hon. Gentleman say how much the miners in Abertillery get for cutting this coal?Mr. G. BARKER
: I do not propose to give the cutting prices at any particular colliery, but I can furnish the hon. Member with the figures showing that the minimum wage in his division for miners is £1 0s. 8d. per day. The miner does not care about working any more than is necessary in order to produce the minimum wage, with which he is quite content, working four days a week.Mr. INSKIP
: Will the hon. Member say how much coal they produce?Mr. MYERS
: I am dealing with the minimum wage which he gets for producing a certain amount of coal. The hon. Member said that he was for some years the manager of a colliery in China.Mr. INSKIP
: I said I assisted in the management.Mr. BARKER
107810771076: From what he has said in this Debate I should have thought
107810771076Mr. INSKIP
10801079: The hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last, with a gentle sarcasm which was very pleasing, suggested how we were to conduct our discussion and to what points we should confine ourselves. May I assure him that we shall conduct our discussions as we think best, and touch the points as we think they require touching. May I also remind him, quite courteously, that, after giving us a gentle lecture, about confining ourselves to the Bill, he confined himself to a series of sarcastic references that had nothing at all to do with the Bill. These are the amenities of debate, and I want to assure him that I thoroughly enjoyed his allusions. Rightly or wrongly, I look upon this Bill as a make-shift, and a poor one at that, and I am quite entitled to call attention to its shortcomings and to the methods of working under Government, which, in our opinion, will remove the necessity of Bills of this kind. I object to the general scope of the Bill because of its absolute insufficiency. May I, since examples have been quoted, give one of a trade which, suffering all through the War, and acting in a patriotic sense all through the War, giving every one of its men to the War with the exception of those physically unfit and the very few who through extraordinary domestic circumstances were not able to go, doing it without complaint, is now in the position of having in some of its districts, not 15 nor 50, but from 75 to 80 per cent. of its people unemployed after five years of suffering?
10801079Mr. THOMAS SHAW
: I have said nothing.Sir F. BANBURY
: I heard the right hon. Baronet's interjection that Bolshevism was the policy of the Labour party.Mr. SHAW
: Oh, that was some time ago.Sir F. BANBURY
: Such statements as that will not help us to reason and sanity, but they will help us to the very thing which hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite fear; they will lead to a revolutionary feeling, and unless progress is made they will lead to revolution itself. The working people of this country are not going back quietly to the condition of things before the War. Everything is moving in the direction of pre-War conditions being restored. That is the danger in front of us. I hope that hon. and right hon. Members opposite, along with some of those on this side of the House who believe that progress can only be orderly, and that only intelligence can bring about a right change, will help us by trying to see our point of view. Evidently some do not do so. I said a moment ago it was bad economy to starve people. It is also bad politics to make false statements. When the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last referred to the minimum wage of miners in Wales and to the price of coal at 76s. per ton, he did not tell us that the hewing and drawing miner received roughly only about 5s.Mr. SHAW
: I did not say that, because it would be quite contrary to the facts.Mr. INSKIP
1081: My information is that the hewer gets about 5s. of the total, and when it is suggested that 18s. 10d. or even £1 0s. 8d. a day, is a tremendous amount for a man to get who goes into the bowels of the earth to hew coal, I am reminded that there are certain professions which are much cleaner, much more pleasant,
1081Mr. SHAW
: If the hon. Member will permit me I really cannot allow the suggestion to pass that I said the men were overpaid. What I suggested in answer to an inquiry as to the cause of the slump in the industry was that in consequence of the minimum wage being fixed at £1 0s. 8d. a day there were a number of men who were not encouraged to produce to the best of their ability. That is the statement which I made and it is within the recollection of the House. The hon. Gentleman entirely misrepresents me by saying that I said they were overpaid.Mr. INSKIP
10831082: If the hon. Gentleman did not mean that they were overpaid he certainly did not take the clearest way of expressing himself. I am very glad he has admitted they were not overpaid. We can take it for granted that the colliers after all in the Western field, in the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, are decent fellows who are not overpaid.10831082Mr. SHAW
: We must try to confine the discussion to unemployment in this country.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER (Sir E. Cornwall)
1084: I will try to confine myself to the subject of unemployment in this country. I suggest that the foreign policy of the Government, by its blundering and its ineptitude, has closed these markets to us, has stuck the wheels of industry; and our people are now walking the streets when they might have been making machines for that big country, and that country, in return, might have been sending us its produce. That is not the worst of it. The Balkans and Eastern and Central Europe are in the same condition. The danger of the Russian position is not confined to Russia alone; every surrounding State is suffering. There are immense potentialities in the East of Europe and in Central Europe, and those potentialities it is the business of a wise Government to help to develop. There is a chance for our men who are now walking the streets to make ploughs, locomotives, clothes, boots, and in return to get agricultural produce, wood, and other materials that we need in this country. [HON MEMBER: "Where from?"] Where from? Travel where you like—across the great wheat plains of Hungary from Vienna to Budapest, through Bulgaria, Jugo-Slavia, or Czecho-Slovakia—there are these potentialities that any man can see. You can see that
1084Mr. SHAW
: What about strikes?Lieut-Commander ASTBURY
108710861085: Strikes! An employer can go from his business to Egypt for four months, and he will never say a word. Both sides need to work, and it is our business, so far as we can, to see that the other side does work. We can no longer be contented to be the butt and joke and to bear the accusation. We shall turn round and say, "Yes, gentlemen, unemployment is here. We want to get to the root cause of it. What is the root cause? We are not now satisfied with your statement that it is our laziness or that it is our wages. We are asking questions as to whether you are doing your work, as to whether you are scientific enough, as to whether you are up-to-date enough, as to whether you are getting the best out of your firm that you can," and we are getting within measurable distance of the time when we shall say to our members, just as the employer said in the past to an incompetent workman, "I will not have you working at my firm"—we are coming to the point when we shall say to our members, where an employer is grossly negligent, where his place is not run on proper lines, "We will not work for you until you work better." That is what we are seriously aiming for. This has a vital application to our international trade policy. Will anyone contend that before the War we were equal in our Consular service to the Germans? What
108710861085Mr. SHAW
: Begin at the beginning again.Mr. LANE MITCHELL
1088: Yes, I will tell you what took place at the beginning. What took place was this. The nation was mercilessly fleeced—by its shipowners, amongst others. I was a member of the Committee set up, and I heard the evidence given, and it was to this effect: "Gentleman, we don't want these enormous freight charges, but we are regretfully obliged to take them because
1088Mr. SHAW
: The hon. Member is travelling over a lot of ground.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: It is all due to unemploymentMr. W. THORNE
: He must endeavour to confine his remarks more nearly to the question before us.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: I apologise to you, Sir; but I hope you heard the interruptions.Mr. SHAW
: I heard the interruptions, and I allowed the hon. Member a great deal of latitude, and I hops he will regard the latitude I have given him.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
10901089: I bow to your ruling, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, and I acknowledge your very great kindness, and I thank you for the opportunity you have given me of giving these Gentlemen a little information. Now let me turn to the provisions of the Bill. I want to know, if I may, from some representative of the Government whether they consider it possible under present circumstances for a man to keep body and soul together on 18s. a week. Everybody knows that the ordinary working man lives from hand to mouth. What can 18s. a week do for a man with a family who probably finds his 18. nearly gone when he pays his rent? Is it good enough to pay these miserably small sums, or would it not be sounder economy to pay something that would keep a man in physic ally good health? This is a vitally serious problem, not for the unemployment of the moment, but for the future of our nation and its capacity and possibility of employment in the future. If we get a people crippled in health—
10901089Mr. SHAW
: I should like to address a few words to the hon. and learned Member for Bristol (Mr. Inskip), who attributed the unemployment which prevails in South Wales to the high rate of minimum wage enjoyed by the South Wales miners. I presume, from the observations he made, that the hon. and learned Member is acquainted with the coal trade in South Wales, and while I am not prepared to attribute any dishonesty to him, I suggest that he only told half the story. The minimum wage, as he well knows, is only paid in exceptional cases. The large industries of the country, the South Wales coal trade included, work upon the principle of piecework rates, and the person who earns nothing gets nothing. In the coal trade when the minimum wage is applied it is owing to the fact that the conditions are such that piece-work rates cannot conveniently be applied. I would remind the hon. and learned Member that whatever the minimum wage may be, or whatever the earnings of the South Wales miners may be, the evidence given at the Coal Commission provided some valuable information, namely, that after the wages had been paid, and the costs of production had been met, the profits accruing from the coal trade of the country in less than five years was more than the entire value of the coal trade of the country, lock, stock and barrel. That was after the payment of the extortionate wages to which the hon. and learned Member referred. The hon. Member will also be aware of the fact that in 1916 the price of coal going from South Wales to France and Italy was from 10 to 12 times its pre-War price, and the price of coal in Italy and France—Mr. MYERS
1091: The disadvantage of allowing Members to illustrate their argument by introducing the subject
1091Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
10931092: I bow to your ruling, Sir, but the hon. and learned Gentleman said that unemployment was due to the high wages which were being paid to the miners in South Wales, and one of the reasons why the demand for the commodity from that area is not at present in existence is the high price of fuel and consequently the profits that have prevailed, and the fact that coal was sold in France and Italy for £12 a ton has resulted in France and Italy securing their coal elsewhere. In 1916 the price of coal in France and Italy had risen so much that the President of the Board of Trade had to make an official visit to those two countries to discuss this matter with the representatives of our Allies with the result that the price of coal was reduced following his intervention. That was my only object in illustrating this particular point. The speech of the hon. Member for Abertillery rather disturbed the prevailing comfort of this assembly. Some of the things he said may be rather unorthodox so far as the majority in this House are concerned, but nevertheless they are very largely true. But did anyone ever hear in this House a more lame definition of what trade is than that of the hon. and learned Member for Bristol? He told us that trade was something we had to fight for, something that could not be got for the asking, something that was a long way off. The simple fact is that trade is the provision of social needs, the provision of food, clothes and housing and not something a long way off and something to fight for, and we have millions of our people to-day needing boots and clothing and all the social necessities of life and there is the field of trade at our hand, easily understood and very easily get-at-able if we only turn our minds in that direction.10931092Mr. MYERS
1094: I appeal to the House to give us the Second Reading and the Committee Stage of the Finance Resolution to-night. I explained earlier that as regards ex-service men, quite a number of them exhausted their unemployment donation last Saturday. The same is true of numbers of working men and women who have been receiving the unemployment insurance benefit. Hon. Members opposite say this Bill is not enough, and they are, of course, entitled to say that, but I would suggest to them that a very great responsibility attaches to anybody who, in these circumstances, increases the hiatus. There must be a week now. I hope to begin the new benefit at the close of next week, but to do that it will be necessary for me to get the Second Reading and Committee stage of the Resolution, if I can, to-day and the rest to-morrow. I hope those who think we ought to give more will give us the chance, at any rate, of doing
1094Dr. MACNAMARA
1095: I submit that the responsibility for this state of affairs is entirely the Government's. The position of the ex-service men and of those whose period of payment has now lapsed is not a new matter. In the last Session of Parliament we debated this unemployment problem, and we told the Government what would happen. We told the Government then that it was the only question that mattered, and, instead of the position being improved in the interval, it has been aggravated and has got much worse. The result is that we accept no responsibility whatever for this state of affairs. As a matter of fact, even the right hon. Member for the Duncairn Division (Sir E. Carson) joined with us long before the end of last Session in appealing to the Government to say exactly what was going to happen in regard to this unemployed problem and the ex-service men.1095Mr. J. H. THOMAS
1098a,: I beg to move, in paragraph (1098a,Mr. TREVELYAN THOMSON
8.  asked the Secretary of State for India how many regiments of cavalry and battalions of infantry are to be reduced in the Indian Army; what was the number of each in 1914; and what will be the number when the proposed reductions are carried out?Sir C. YATE
: How many regiments are serving abroad, and, deducting these, to what number will it actually be reduced?Sir C. YATE
7.  asked the Secretary of State for India what steps have been taken to carry into effect the recommendations in Part V of the Esher Report in regard to the improvements in the conditions of service of the personnel of the Army in India which are so long overdue?Sir C. YATE
: Can the right hon. Gentleman name a date?Sir C. YATE
9.  asked the Secretary of State for India the number of voluntary enrolments in India up to date under the Auxiliary Force Bill, and how this number compares with the number that were enrolled under the India Defence Force Act; and what is the date fixed as the time limit for volunteering under the new Act?Sir C. YATE
: Then there is a deficit now of 12,000 men?Sir C. YATE
: Is the 31st March the date fixed on which the question is to be reconsidered whether it is to be compulsory or voluntary enlistment?Sir C. YATE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman fix the date on which that can be brought forward?Sir C. YATE
: Is it not a fact that two squadrons of aeroplanes were disbanded a short time ago in India?Colonel Sir C. YATE
: Will my right hon. Friend state by whom the decision has to be applied?Colonel GREIG
: Is it not a fact that persons employed under the conditions stated are not engaged on productive work?Major NALL
: May I ask whether the terms of the Mandate are negotiated by the Government, as in the case of a Treaty, or whether they are imposed on the Government by this International Council?Major NALL
: Is it not the case that we shall be unable to alter the terms of the Mandate, and can only reject it entirely; and, in the case of other Mandates we may assume, cannot we have the terms before Parliament before their submission to the Council of the League?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: On what ground does the right hon. Gentleman say that there is no doubt at all that this was done by Sinn Feiners?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: On a point of Order. May I say that if you had permitted me to put my only question on this matter I think I should have drawn an admission from the right hon. Gentleman that these men were first of all sent back—Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
905: Does not the hon. and gallant Gentleman think this an undue proportion of flags to be flown on a squadron of only
905Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Does not the hon. and gallant Gentleman think it somewhat unfair to the post captains in these ships, who have less chance of handling sub-divisions and getting experience?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Is not the loss of these regiments compensated for by the development of flying squadrons in India, and can we not look for some further economies by aeroplanes taking the place of cavalry?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I have nothing to add at the present time to my reply.Dr. ADDISON
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the negative. With regard to the second part of the question, I can only say at present that, having regard to the paramount necessity of limiting public expenditure, the Government are considering what further action can be taken with a view to reducing the present excessive cost of housing schemes.The MINISTER of HEALTH (Dr. Addison)
: No, Sir.Sir J. CRAIG
: It is expected that a decision will be reached at an early date.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the ADMIRALTY (Colonel Sir J. Craig)
i.e.,: Eight battleships, of which five are flagships, are taking part in the present cruise of the Atlantic Fleet. The other two ships are detached, i.e.,Sir J. CRAIG
: I would not like to answer offhand. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had better put down a question.Sir J. CRAIG
The following is the answer referred:—: As the answer includes a considerable number of figures, perhaps the hon. Member will allow me to publish it in the OFFICIAL REPORT.The following is the answer referred:—Sir J. CRAIG
: The Jack Cornwall, V.C., National Memorial Fund was promoted privately and not by the Admiralty. I am unable, therefore, to furnish my hon. Friend with the information as to how the money collected has been expended.Sir J. CRAIG
: An Order in Council is unnecessary, the remuneration to which retired officers called up for service are entitled being laid down in an Order in Council dated the 5th March, 1910.Sir J. CRAIG
: Would it not be much better that these figures should be fixed by an independent committee and not by men who are beneficiaries?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that in the Peace Treaty it is laid down that, if the Mandate is not accepted, that nation ceases to belong to the League of Nations; and, further, is he aware that the Council of the League of Nations have put off the discussion of these Mandates at the request of the United States, who are not a member of the League of Nations, while at the same time we are asked to give a blank cheque to our Foreign Minister which is not endorsed by this House, which has to pay the bill, not only in this year, but for many years to come?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
923: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that, out of five Mandates already given in December
923Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: As General Crozier has apparently resigned his command owing to this letter having been delayed in the post, and therefore his authority was undermined by the return of these cadets, and as these cases are going to be investigated, cannot the right hon. Gentleman see General Crozier and ascertain if something cannot be done in his case as well?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: I appreciate the force of what the right hon. Gentleman has said, but I would like to know whether General Crozier has made a statement as to the reason for his resignation to the Government, and whether that statement will be laid before Parliament?Lord HUGH CECIL
: Is there any ground for the suggestion that it is intended to take the surplus profits from the Expeditionary Force Canteen and apply them to wiping out the deficit incurred in the working of the Navy and Army Canteen Board?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
29.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware that, in spite of the fact that the cost of living is declining, some of the Trade Boards are proposing to increase the existing minimum rates, the effect of which will be further to increase unemployment?Sir K. FRASER
: Is the right hon. Gentleman prepared to receive that information?Mr. WATERSON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that there are individuals who have paid their contributions for unemployment insurance and cannot get the benefits?Mr. WATERSON
: May we take it that the people who have suffered will be granted some compensation, and will such compensation be levied upon the local authorities or be a national charge?Mr. WATERSON
: That does not arise out of the question, but if the hon. and gallant Gentleman puts down a question I will answer it.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
928: My right, hon. Friend has asked me to reply. I would refer to the full answer which I gave
928Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: The whole object in placing this under Royal Charter was to allow those in whose hands it was placed discretionary power: there is no one in the House who can answer the question; my hon. Friend can obtain an answer from the United Services Fund quite as well as we can.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: My hon. Friend had better address that question to Lord Byng.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
907: I have been asked to reply. The hon. and gallant
907Sir A. WILLIAMSON (Parliamentary Secretary to the War Office)
: Is it competent for an employer to mark the cards as has been described?Mr. HAYDAY
21.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty how much money is being saved weekly in wages under the short-time scheme in the Clarence Victualling Yard, Gosport, Priddy's Hard, Gosport, and the Director of Works Department, Haslar; the number of additional workmen for whom this sum is estimated to provide employment; and how many additional workmen are now so employed?Mr. HAYDAY
904 asked the Secretary of State for India whether, in the event of an attack by hostile ships on Ran-
904Mr. SPOOR
: What will happen to those men who are not allowed to work because of the joiners' strike?Sir B. FALLE
25.  asked the Secretary to the Admiralty if he is aware that recruits for the Military Police are being, and have been, enlisted on the promise of higher pay if they have two years' previous service and that naval service is not considered as such service, but that naval ratings are not so informed before enlisting, while service in the Royal Air Force and the Canadian Forces, but not the South African, is allowed to count; and if he can in any way explain the anomaly and the slight to the senior service and the South African service?Sir B. FALLE
24.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty if an Order in Council is necessary before the pension of a naval officer called up for service is suspended?Major Sir B. FALLE
: We have not had time to go into it up till now, but it will be issued as soon as possible.Mr. BONAR LAW
: This is a complicated subject and I do not understand from the question what actual proposals my hon. Friend has in view. Perhaps he will be good enough to communicate his suggestions to me.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The Report of the Select Committee on Members' Salaries is now under consideration.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I have promised that they will be published.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I quite see the force of that point, which has been considered by the Government, but it really is the same thing. Supposing this Mandate wore introduced into this House and received approval, then it goes to the League of Nations, not for discussion, but to accept or reject.Mr. BONAR LAW
: That is very much the same question. There must always be a blank cheque, to a certain extent, to the Government of the day. But the power of the House of Commons remains in every sense undiminished; it can refuse to accept the Mandate.Mr. BONAR LAW
: It is really the subject of negotiations. It is precisely the same as a Treaty. The terms of these Mandates have formed the subject of negotiations for many months with our Allies. It has gone to the League of Nations when it will be discussed, but finally the power will rest with the House of Commons.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Certainly. If, as I think is probable, it is the desire of the House that it should be done, we shall do it.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The publication was unauthorised, and I am not aware of the method by which the newspaper obtained possession of it.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The general policy of His Majesty's Government as regards the non-self-governing Colonies and Protectorates is, as far as possible, to maintain stability of exchange in relation to sterling, unless there be a clear balance of advantage to the Colony in linking up its exchange with the currency system of some other area.Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
922: I think my hon. and gallant Friend is under a misapprehension. It is, as I have said, in my view precisely similar to a Treaty. It
922Mr. BONAR LAW
: As promised, this question has been discussed by the British and Allied Governments, and we shall circulate the terms of these mandates, which have already been submitted to the League of Nations, to the House. I may add, however, that in our view this is very similar to the negotiation of a Treaty, which must be carried out by the Government of the day, but, of course, as in the case of a Treaty, Parliament would have, the right to refuse to adopt it.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Does the figure include the "Hood," which is really a fast battleship carrying the flag of Sir Roger Keyes?Commander BELLAIRS
: I do not think that comes under my Department.Mr. SHORTT
: On the evidence before us.Mr. SHORTT
: The Prime Minister has asked me to reply to this question. I have received reports on these crimes, and much regret that in some places appreciable damage was caused amounting probably to some £20,000 in all. Fortunately, the attempts were for the most part frustrated by prompt action on the part of persons on the premises, fire brigades, and police. The police are taking active steps to bring the offenders to justice, but have not so far obtained sufficient evidence for the prosecution of any individuals. There is, however, no doubt that the crimes were organised by Sinn Fein.The SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Mr. Shortt)
: I find some difficulty in understanding the hon. Member's question. Perhaps he could furnish me with particulars of any specific case on which it is based. Meanwhile I can assure him that there has been no discrimination against the Indian Medical Service.Mr. MONTAGU
: I would refer my hon. Friend to the answer I gave to the hon. Member for Wentworth on 3rd November. A committee is now assembling at Rangoon to work out details for evacuation of the arsenal and its location elsewhere.Mr. MONTAGU
: No riot at Naihati has been reported to me by the Government of India. I am making inquiries.Mr. MONTAGU
: I have received an advance copy of the Report. Some preliminary action has been taken, but the detailed proposals of the Government of India have not yet reached me.Mr. MONTAGU
903: If the hon. Member refers to despatches, most despatches from the Government of India are printed, because, even when the subject matter is
903Mr. MONTAGU
: Of course it was. The Governor is specially charged by Statute to make his own nominations. I never knew of the appointment until some time after it was made.Mr. MONTAGU
: May I point out that this gentleman who has given rise to this discussion is a Minister who has charge of those very transferred subjects, and that if the Legislature does not think him a man worthy of its confidence it has its remedy, and if the Punjab does not think the Legislature worthy of its confidence it has its remedy.Mr. MONTAGU
: I prefer to leave it to the Government of India, who are quite aware of what will give them the force which they require.Mr. MONTAGU
: I would refer the hon. Member to the reply I have given the hon. and gallant Member for Melton. For the additional information regarding the numbers recruited for the Auxiliary Force in the large towns I shall have to refer to India. The Government of India state that enrolment is proceeding satisfactorily.Mr. MONTAGU
: Under the Government of India Act, Ministers are appointed by the Governors of Governors'. Provinces, hold office at the pleasure of the Governor, and are responsible to the Legislative Councils who vote their salaries. The Joint Select Committee advised that the Ministers selected by the Governors should be elected members of the Legislative Council, enjoying its confidence and capable of leading it. In these circumstances I would submit to the House that the proper place to consider the title of Ministers to the confidence of the Legislatures is the Provincial Councils.Mr. MONTAGU
: No; that is not quite true. It is subject to the superintendence, direction, and control of the Secretary of State, except—I am quoting from memory—as provided in this Act, and under this Act the question of the appointment of Ministers is laid by Statute on the Governor.Mr. MONTAGU
899: No date has been fixed. As soon as the Government of
899Mr. MONTAGU
: Yes, of course it will take some time to recreate a force whose number was temporarily created during the War. It is hoped that 32,000, which is approximately the number, will be recruited by 31st March.Mr. MONTAGU
: A report, dated the 18th January, states that "the Auxiliary Force is making good progress, and the numbers already recruited have now reached some 20,000 out of a proposed 32,000 by the end of the financial year." In October, 1920, the numbers in the Indian Defence Force were 33,451.Mr. MONTAGU
: I think it will be possible to give an answer this day week.Mr. MONTAGU
: I hope to be able to announce a decision in the matter very shortly.Mr. MONTAGU
: I think the whole position will be made quite clear when I am in a position to make a statement. No reduction has yet been sanctioned on which there has been dissension of any sort or kind in the government of India.Mr. MONTAGU
: I am awaiting these and other connected figures from the Government of India. As soon as they are received they will be presented to Parliament in response to a request for a return made in another place.Mr. MONTAGU
: I should like to consult the War Office before I say how many cavalry regiments are serving abroad, for very obvious reasons. If the hon. Member will put down a question I will discuss with the War Office whether it is possible to give the information without prejudice to the public interest.Mr. MONTAGU
: Yes, there is to be a considerable reduction. I think I shall be able to explain it to the satisfaction of the hon. and gallant Member this day fortnight, when I hope to make a statement on the whole question.Mr. MONTAGU
: There were in India and Aden in 1914: 39 Indian cavalry regiments, 132 battalions of Indian infantry and pioneers, and, in addition, 6 Indian infantry battalions in overseas garrisons. Arrangements are now being made to maintain in India: 21 Indian cavalry regiments, 132 battalions of Indian infantry and pioneers, with a somewhat reduced establishment. In addition there will remain the Indian cavalry and infantry units employed overseas. But the question of the final post-War strength of the Army in India is engaging the close attention of His Majesty's Government, and I hope to make a statement to-day fortnight.Mr. MONTAGU
: Yes. Pending that statement no further reductions are contemplated.Mr. MONTAGU
: The previous question referred to reductions already made. This refers to reductions that are to be made.Mr. MONTAGU
: In determining the post-War army in India all these facts will be taken into consideration.Mr. MONTAGU
: Yes, I believe there was a reduction of two squadrons of aeroplanes.Mr. MONTAGU
: I think that is a very important consideration, and I will forward my hon. Friend's suggestion to the Government of India for consideration.Mr. MONTAGU
: Three Indian Cavalry Regiments were disbanded on 10th January, 1919, and the fifth additional squadrons of four Indian Cavalry Regiments were disbanded during the year 1920. None of these regiments of squadrons were pre-War units. The establishment of the above units would amount to 2,160. Men serving on ordinary engagements get on disbandment certain special concessions in the way of pension or gratuity. I am sending my hon. Friend a copy of these rules.Mr. MONTAGU
: Revised rates of pay for all the services mentioned in paragraph 15 of the India Army Order referred to, including Royal Engineer officers serving with sappers and miners, have been sanctioned with effect from the 1st July, 1919.The SECRETARY of STATE for INDIA (Mr. Montagu)
50.  asked the Prime Minister what is the total amount in the Canteen Fund; what scheme, if any, is suggested for its use; if he will appoint a Committee of the House to consider and report as to the best method of using the funds for the benefit of those who provided it?Mr. BRIANT
: In view of the fact that there are practically now no complaints of the conduct of the Regular troops of the Army or the Royal Irish Constabulary, does he not consider that the time has arrived when, in the interests of good government, the honour of this country, and the interests of the Government itself they should disband this particular branch of the force which produces all this trouble?Mr. FRANCE
54.  asked the Lord Privy Seal if the Government have yet considered the Report of the Select Committee on Members' Salaries and Allowances; and is he in a position to inform the House of Commons if the recommendations in the Report will be accepted by His Majesty's Government?Sir GODFREY COLLINS
: I have been asked to reply to this question, and I have nothing to add at present to the detailed answer that I gave upon this matter last Thursday.The ATTORNEY-GENERAL (Sir Gordon Hewart)
: No, Sir, the question which is asked to-day is not what arrangements are to be made, but what arrangements have been made, and I should have thought it was an obvious inference, from the answer I gave last Thursday, that the time has not yet come to make this arrangement.Sir G. HEWART
: That question is our old friend, the fallacy of many questions. It is not true. The seven test cases are some of the worst.Sir G. HEWART
: No, Sir, my hon. and learned Friend knows, as well as I do, that I cannot. He probably also knows that there are now, as I understand, arrangements for certain representatives of the legal authorities in Germany coming to confer with me on that very matter.Sir G. HEWART
bonâ fide: With regard to the second question, I cannot say. With regard to the first question, if my right hon. Friend had listened to the answer I gave last week, he would know quite well that the seven persons upon that preliminary list did not in the least purport to exhaust the whole. They are seven selected test cases, upon which we are to try the bonâ fideSir G. HEWART
111.  asked the Secretary of State for War the total amount of the United Services Fund and the amount that is to be handed over to Lord Byng?Major WHELER
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the permanent staff of the Kent County Council, doing their own work in the rest of the county, are perfectly satisfied with 1s 2d. an hour?Major WHELER
"Send over the 26 N Company Cadets now in London for investigation by the Chief of Police."930: This is a very important question, and I hope the House will permit me to read the necessarily lengthy answer:—"Send over the 26 N Company Cadets now in London for investigation by the Chief of Police."930The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: I have endeavoured to answer fully most of the questions put by the hon. and gallant Members' supplementary questions, and I will endeavour to answer this. The whole question is one of discipline. It is not a fact that mere discharge or dismissal from the force is a punishment for looting or any crime outside the domestic economy of the force itself. In this particular case I can assure the House that everything will be done to bring to justice these men who are accused of a very serious crime, and no one would be more pleased than I would be to see them most summarily punished. [HON. MEMBERS: "If guilty."] Of course, if guilty.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I cannot answer that.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: That is all news to me. General Tudor never spoke to me about this matter at all, and the first knowledge I had of it was reading it in the "Times." I looked upon it then, as I do now, as a very serious conflict on a question of discipline. I am, however, clear in my view that the procedure that is now going on is the best and proper procedure in reference to this charge.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I understand that General Crozier wrote a letter to General Tudor. I have not seen that letter, but I should be very pleased to get a copy of it and circulate it.Sir H. GREENWOOD
932: I am well aware of the feeling of this House in reference to discipline in this particular force, and for months past I have endeavoured to stiffen it. We have removed officers, and
932Sir H. GREENWOOD
49.  asked the Prime Minister whether he will consider the possibility of taking steps to see that all imported grain is milled in Great Britain, thus giving greater employment to the British milling industry and cheaper feeding stuffs to British stock raisers and poultry farmers?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Does that answer convey the idea that there is no flour being imported into this country?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: I will put my question to the Prime Minister in a more lucid form.Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: I asked if a man or woman offered a fair living wage will be denied the generosity of the State in the matter of unemployment donation?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
36.  asked the Minister of Labour whether his attention has been called to the fact that a female domestic servant was engaged by an inhabitant in Bournemouth a week ago at a salary of £62 a year, all found, and the said domestic informed the person who had employed her on the 17th instant that she did not require a post now because unemployed benefits were being renewed for another 15 weeks; and whether he will take steps to prevent any person who is offered a living wage from receiving unemployed donation and thus adding to the national indebtedness and aggravating the general financial and economic difficulties of the country?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: In view of the grave financial condition of the country and the burden on the taxpayer, will the right hon. Gentleman give an undertaking that no man and no woman shall receive unemployment donation in this country if they are offered a fair living wage in any industry whatever?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Is it a fact that there is to be a very considerable reduction in Indian cavalry regiments?Lieut-Colonel CROFT
: In view of the fact that the last answer seems to contradict the answer to a previous question may I ask the right hon. Gentleman if the discrepancy in the number of cavalry regiments, between 39 and 21, is made up by cavalry regiments serving in other theatres, or is there a reduction?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
902: This is the only case that I am discussing. This is not the
902Mr. SPEAKER
: The words "Home Rule" were used, not in a technical sense, but in a general sense. Certain subjects have been transferred wholly to these Legislative Councils, and it is with regard to those only that I used the expression.Mr. SPEAKER
: It depends on the information which is asked for. When the question appears on the Paper, I will consider it.Mr. SPEAKER
: That does not seem to be a matter for this Parliament. It is a matter for the Legislative Council.Mr. SPEAKER
: The House having given practically Home Rule, or something in the nature of Home Rule, to these Councils the less it interferes with the Councils the better.Mr. SPEAKER
: I would remind hon. Members who are calling out that it rests with me to call on a Member.Mr. SPEAKER
: That does not arise out of this question.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. and gallant Member takes so many opportunities of putting questions that I could not foresee any particular virtue in this one.Mr. SPEAKER
: That does not appear to me to raise any point of Order.Mr. SPEAKER
: That notice was evidently prepared before the Chief Secretary's answer was given, and does not fit the facts.Mr. SPEAKER
: Seeing that the Chief Secretary has now stated that he knew nothing of General Crozier's resignation, is it not true that on 14th February General Tudor wrote to General Crozier intimating that these 30 men were to be suspended; that in the meantime he was going to see the Chief Secretary for Ireland, and that General Crozier's resignation was not sent to General Tudor until 19th February. Therefore, in view of that fact, what is the explanation of General Tudor, who saw the right hon. Gentleman in the interval, not informing him of these circumstances?Mr. J. H. THOMAS
"I know what the workmen have got in their minds. They have got the horror of unemployment. I wonder what sort of Christmas an unemployed man has to face for his children. We must get rid of this fear and this horror of unemployment for ever. It is a thing that we have no right to permit in a civilised community. It is a torture which no human citizen should commit against another. It is a thing which 13 causing a great sense of wrong, a great sense of injustice, a sense of grievance in the minds of the working men of this country greater than anything else."937936935: I beg to move, "That leave be given to bring in a Bill to make provision for the prevention of unemployment, to provide for the proper treatment of unemployed persons; and for other purposes connected therewith.""I know what the workmen have got in their minds. They have got the horror of unemployment. I wonder what sort of Christmas an unemployed man has to face for his children. We must get rid of this fear and this horror of unemployment for ever. It is a thing that we have no right to permit in a civilised community. It is a torture which no human citizen should commit against another. It is a thing which 13 causing a great sense of wrong, a great sense of injustice, a sense of grievance in the minds of the working men of this country greater than anything else."937936935Mr. CLYNES
: Will any part of this Canteen Fund be available to start disabled men in business?Mr. MILLS
: Is it not a fact that the Joint Industrial Council, a part of the Minister's own Department, had fixed a minimum rate of wages of 1s. 10d. per hour for that class of work, in the Dartford and Erith area, and that these men are being offered the rate paid in the middle of Kent?Mr. MILLS
: Can we assume that the stability of employment in the co-operative movement is greater than in the ordinary kind of employment of private enterprise?Mr. SWAN
: Then you have not had any returns from any co-operative movement where men have been dismissed, apart from those who have had to vacate due to filling the places of ex-service men who have since returned to their work?Mr. SWAN
41.  asked the Minister of Labour if he can state what is the proportion of the registered number of unemployed who have been engaged in the cooperative movement?Mr. SWAN
: Are the bulk of them men who were formerly engaged in munitions, that is, a national and not a municipal department, and can we therefore assume that the municipal work is more stable?Mr. SWAN
42.  asked the Minister of Labour what is the proportion of the registered number of unemployed who have been engaged in municipal enterprise?Mr. SWAN
918: Is it not possible for their services to be absorbed by the guilds
918Mr. SWAN
: Could the right hon. Gentleman not utilise material and men and get houses built better and cheaper?Mr. SWAN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that in some of the Clyde shipyards the men are being dismissed for want of work and that their cards are marked in different ways? Some are marked, "Dismissed for want of work owing to joiners' strike," and others "Dismissed for want of work." There is inequality in the treatment of these men. When my right hon. Friend is amending the Unemployment Insurance Act will he consider some relaxation of Section 8?Mr. TAYLOR
: What explanation has the right hon. Gentleman to offer for the fact that General Tudor did not inform the Irish Office and the Chief Secretary for Ireland of the resignation of General Crozier and the cause of the resignation? Why was that?Mr. DEVLIN
: May I point out that during the last six months this House has rung with indignant cries about charges made against the honour of military officers. We are here to defend these military officers when they do their duty, and, in pursuance of the defence of these officers who have done their duty, are we to be prevented from exposing this infamy in the House of Commons?Mr. DEVLIN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman inform the House how many thousands are already unemployed in the building trade, and how many of those thousands are ex-service men?Mr. N. MACLEAN
: May I ask the right hon. Gentleman to reply to the second part of the supplementary question, which he did not analyse, namely, how many ex-service men in the building trade are unemployed now?Mr. MACLEAN
46. 921 asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware that
921Mr. NEIL MACLEAN
28. 908 asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware
908Mr. N. MACLEAN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman not aware that in quite a large number of cases in the shipyards up and down the country men are being dismissed, although this has nothing to do with the fact that men are on strike, and that their cards are marked, "dismissed owing to joiners' dispute?" If I furnish him with some of the cards will he consider the matter in the manner I have suggested?Mr. MACLEAN
: Is it not the case that the number of employés of the co-operative movement has increased since the Armistice and that very few employés have been dismissed because of under-employment?Mr. N. MACLEAN
: Would it not be better that land which has gone out of wheat cultivation should be brought into cultivation again?Mr. R. RICHARDSON
: I have been asked to reply to this question. Although it is true that barley and oats are now lower in price than in 1917, this is not the case with wheat and potatoes. The cost of labour must, moreover, be considered in relation to the prices obtained for all classes of agricultural produce. I am not aware that there is any serious threat of land going out of cultivation. The Government has made provision as far as possible for the maintenance of the arable area by the Agricultural Act, and the minimum prices fixed under that Act for wheat and oats will take into account any increase in the cost of production due to higher wages or other causes as compared with 1919.Lieut.-Colonel Sir R. SANDERS (Lord of the Treasury)
12.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether Reports, even of a trivial nature, from the Government of India to the Secretary of State are printed; and whether this costly method of transmitting messages is necessary?Mr. GWYNNE
15.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he is aware that the Indian Medical Service have received neither the benefits of the accelerated cadre promotion granted in the British Army and the Royal Army Medical Corps nor the accelerated time promotion granted in the Indian Army; whether the reason given for the exclusion of the Indian Medical Service from the British Army and Royal Army Medical Corps cadre acceleration to lieutenant-colonelcy is because the Indian Army did not have it and from the Indian Army time scale acceleration to field rank because the Royal Army Medical Corps did not have it; and what is the object of placing officers of the Indian Medical Service in this disadvantageous position?Mr. GWYNNE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman answer the last part of Question 6, whether such proposals had the approval of the Commander-in-Chief, and when the decision was arrived at?Mr. GWYNNE
17.  asked the Secretary of State for India the number of men who have enrolled in the force constituted under the Auxiliary Force Act of last year, giving the total enrolment for India and Burma, and the numbers recruited in Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, and other large towns, respectively; and whether the Government of India are satisfied with the result of the Act up to the present time?Sir T. BENNETT
11.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he has yet received the views of the Government of India on the Report of the Couchman Committee on the purchase of stores for the State; and whether he is now able to say how far the recommendations contained in that Report will be carried out?Sir T. BENNETT
38.  asked the Minister of Labour whether the construction of an arterial road between Dartford and Erith, which the Kent County Council had undertaken for the relief of the unemployed, was being delayed owing to an instruction to the local labour exchange that the men employed must receive 1s. 11d. per hour, while the permanent road staff throughout the county are getting 1s. 2d. per hour; and whether he will support the county council in refusing to pay unskilled labour wages largely in excess of the wages of experienced roadmen and of agricultural labourers?Sir T. BENNETT
: The fixing of the rates of wages for this arterial road is a matter for the Kent County Council, who are carrying out the work and bearing half the cost. The statement which recently appeared in the Press over the signature of a member of the Kent County Council that the Government had instructed the Employment Exchange that the rate of wages must be 1s. 11d. an hour is incorrect. No instructions of any kind with regard to the wages to be paid have been issued by the Ministry of Labour to the Exchange. Some misunderstanding has probably arisen owing to the action taken by the Local Employment Committee at Dartford, the body entrusted with the duty of selecting men for work on the arterial road. This Committee, which consists of representatives of employers and employed, has declined to select men for this work at wages of 1s. 2d. per hour, on the ground that the rate is below the standard. The action to be taken in these circumstances is under consideration.Dr. MACNAMARA
: There have been certain delays in the repayments to trade unions of State benefit paid out by the unions under Section 17 of the Unemployment Insurance Act. In certain cases, these delays have been due to the fault of the Department, and have been occasioned mainly by the very heavy pressure of new claims to benefit. Energetic steps have been taken to eliminate delays arising from this cause. In other cases, however, the delays have been due to the default of the trade unions themselves in not completing the claims for repayment. As regards the particular case of the General Union of Textile Workers, I am aware that the arrangement has been suspended; but so far as I know the question of repayment to the union was not the principal reason for the suspension.Dr. MACNAMARA
912: At 11th February, the latest date for which figures are available, the number of women on the live register of employment exchanges was 295,528, of whom about 259,000 were claiming insurance benefit or out-of-work donation. In addition, 353,371 women had lodged claims for insurance benefit
912Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have no information as to the number of persons unemployed who have been engaged in the co-operative movement.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have no information on that point.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I should not have returns sent to me. The servants in question register their names at the employment exchanges, and whether or not they say they have been servants of the co-operative movement I cannot say, but any facts sent to me on the point will be welcomed.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I should be very glad indeed to have the evidence upon which my hon. Friend bases that statement.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Whether my hon. Friend is correct or not, I have said that the action to be taken is under consideration.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The total number of workpeople whose insurance books or donation policies were lodged at Employment Exchanges at 11th February were 1,067,141 in respect of total unemployment, and 696,873 in respect of short time working. No figures are available to show the number who had been engaged in municipal enterprise, but the numbers who had been engaged in national and local Government service were 8,914 in respect of total unemployment, and 282 in respect of short time.Dr. MACNAMARA
: It is practically offered to me.Dr. MACNAMARA
: No Trade Board has passed any substantial proposal to increase rates of wages since November last, when the Ready-made and Wholesale Bespoke Tailoring Trade Board passed the proposal to which I refer in my answer to another question of my hon. and gallant Friend. A number of proposals, however, issued before that date, are still under consideration by various Trade Boards which, when the proposals came before them in due course after the expiry of the period of two months provided by the Acts for public advertisement, agreed to postpone any decision. The general charge that Trade Board Orders have caused considerable unemployment has been frequently made. I have invariably asked for examples, and I have myself caused enquiries to be made into any specific cases to which my attention has been drawn. With the exception of certain juveniles in the dressmaking and millinery trades, I have not received specific cases bearing out the allegations, and, in fact, the learners' rates in the dressmaking and millinery trades are being revised by the Trade Boards concerned.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The increases I have given cover municipal work and Government work. I am afraid I have not had them analysed.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I am not aware that there is any complaint as to the inadequacy of the training provided in cabinet-making, and I am informed that there is no known case in Yorkshire where a man so trained has failed to obtain employment owing to lack of skill, though in certain cases it is at present impossible to place trainees in employment on account of the depression in trade. If my hon. Friend will furnish me with particulars of any cases he has in mind, I will investigate them at once.Dr. MACNAMARA
: As my hon. Friend is aware, preference in the matter of Government contracts has been given for some time past to firms whose names appear on the King's National Roll; and what further action may be advisable in this connection is now under consideration by the Government. With regard to preference over, foreign firms being given to firms on the King's Roll, I will bring my hon. Friend's suggestion to the notice of the Contracting Departments.Dr. MACNAMARA
: We are now dealing with firms on the King's Roll.Dr. MACNAMARA
909: If my hon. Friend will give me cards so marked I shall be glad to look at them. The question of
909Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have made inquiry and am informed that the men's cards are not being marked as stated in the question. In the majority of the cases in question, if not in all, the men appear to be disqualified for unemployment benefit under the provisions of Section 8 (1) of the Unemployment Insurance Act. I have no power to remove this disqualification. The final decision as to whether the disqualification applies, rests with the umpire appointed under Section 12 of the Act, who has in general upheld the disallowance of benefit in these cases. An appeal to the umpire relating to French polishers is now pending.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I am afraid that I have no reliable record of these cases. In regard to the last part of the question, the services of the Ministry of Labour are open to parties to industrial disputes in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Courts Act.The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. MACNAMARA)
: On Monday last I had an opportunity of discussing this matter with the general manager of the Corporation, and I am intending shortly to communicate with the guild.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Over that I have no jurisdiction.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I do not think that that comes within the ambit of what we are discussing.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Speaking off-hand and subject to correction, I should say no. That is why I want cases.Dr. MACNAMARA
: If the hon. Member will give me instances I will deal with them.Dr. MACNAMARA
: My hon. and gallant Friend should read Section 7 of the main Act—"Statutory conditions for the receipt of unemployment benefit"—and he would there see the precautions which are taken to provide against the improper payment of benefit.Dr. MACNAMARA
911: My hon. and gallant Friend has sent me a letter containing the statement made in the first part of the question, and I am having inquiry made. I may say, however, that had the circumstances stated in the question been reported to the Employment Exchange, unemployment benefit, if it was being paid, would at once have been suspended pending verification of the facts. I should add that private domestic service is not an insured occupation, and women who cannot show that they have been employed in some other occupation which is insured would not be entitled to unemployment benefit in any event. As regards the last part of the question, I would refer my hon. and gallant Friend to Section 7 of the Unem-
911Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have already referred my hon. and gallant Friend to Section 7 of the main Act, Sub-section (1), which does deal with the question of the circumstances under which a person can refuse a job without foregoing benefit.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The question at issue would be referred to the insurance officer, then to the court of referees, and finally to the umpire.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I think it high time, and the hon. Member knows it. We appealed to the unions and made certain offers, which were not accepted. We then appealed to the employers, and I have read the result. I think the reply is highly satisfactory.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have heard the most unworthy suggestion—not from my hon. and gallant Friend—made that these figures are faked because they affect the salaries of those who have to prepare them. That, I think, is a suggestion which ought not to be made anywhere.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The arrangements under which the wages of workpeople in various industries and services are regulated in accordance with the rise or fall in the cost of living, were made by agreement between representatives of the employers and of the workpeople concerned. I have no evidence of any general desire among the parties to those agreements for the replacement of the present index number by one calculated by a different method, and I think it unlikely that the work of such a Committee as is suggested by my hon. and gallant Friend would result in placing wages and salaries in those cases on a more scientific basis, as far as they are varied by the cost of living.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I cannot answer that question. It is, of course, true that the building trade, like every other trade, took back its own men who had joined the Colours, but it remains a fact that there is an opportunity for the employment of 50,000 ex-service men in the building trade, and as far as I am concerned they are going to take a hand in it.Dr. MACNAMARA
: If my hon. Friend will look at the OFFICIAL REPORT of the Debate on the Address, he will find that on an Amendment regarding unemployment, moved by the right hon. Member for Platting (Mr. Clynes), I did my best to analyse those figures and to show why they are unemployed.Dr. MACNAMARA
917: Negotiations for the employment of 50,000 ex-service men are now proceeding actively on the lines indicated by the Prime Minister in his speech in the Debate on the Address last Thursday, and I hope to be in a position shortly to state the arrangements which have been made. I may say that I have received this morning a letter from the National Federation of Building Trades Employers, indicating that at a meeting of their executive council yesterday it was unanimously resolved to confirm the report of their sub-committee on the
917Dr. MACNAMARA
: That is another set of proposals. I think we have had enough discussion one way and another. I do not want to start any more discussion.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I am not aware of that. I will make inquiries, because I think they should have longer notice than that.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I am informed that of the 109 men to whom reference is made, no less than 54 failed to reply to a letter sent them in July, 1920, asking if they still required training. It was, therefore, assumed that they were not desirous of pursuing their former applications. The matter is now having my personal consideration, and I am hopeful that the reorganisation of the work of the Training Department last year is now resulting in a speeding-up of the rate with which those men are being placed in training. I would point out, however, that the present trade depression militates very gravely against the success of these schemes.Dr. MACNAMARA
47.  asked the Prime Minister whether he can explain how it was that the draft of the British Mandate for Mesopotamia was first published by the "Philadelphia Ledger" and not by the League of Nations or the English Government?Mr. MYERS
: When will the decision of the Government be issued?Mr. HARTSHORN
53.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware that all cereals and potatoes are approximately being sold at the prices current when agricultural labourers' wages were fixed at 25s. per week for longer hours than at present obtain; and whether he will take steps to meet the threatened crisis under which a vast number of acres will, unless relief is in some way brought to the farming industry, go out of cultivation?Mr. FORREST
32.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware that there is a complaint among ex-service men now being trained for cabinet-making, particularly in Yorkshire, that their tuition holds out little hope of the acquisition of any practical knowledge; and whether be will investigate the matter without delay?Mr. FORREST
33.  asked the Minister of Labour whether, in view of the fact that trade unions are finding it practically impossible to administer the Government unemployment dole owing to the delay in recovering sums disbursed to their members on behalf of the Government from the Department concerned, and that the General Union of Textile Workers in particular have ceased to administer the benefit on account of the large sums outstanding against the Government Department, he can take any steps to prevent delay in future?Mr. BROMFIELD
: I was not discussing this case. I was asking as to the things that were reserved.Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: As your ruling, Sir, is important, may I ask if the question of law and order and India was handed over to the Councils, or were not only certain specified subjects handed over to them by this House? Is it not the case that this House retains control of every other subject other than those directly handed over?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
5.  asked the Secretary of State for India how many voters were entitled to vote in the recent elections in each province of India and how many actually voted?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
897: I hope I am not pressing the right hon. Gentleman too far, but may I have the assur-
897Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
6.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he is aware of the anxiety caused in India by the proposal to reduce the Army below pre-War limits; whether such proposals had the approval of the Commandor-in-Chief; and when the decision was arrived at?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
4.  asked the Secretary of State for India how many Indian cavalry regiments have been disbanded; whether they were pre-War regiments; how many men have been disbanded; and what pensions are being given to them?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman take great care that these men do not go back to their homes and form the focus of discontent in India?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Can the right hon. Gentleman give us an idea whether it will be possible for this House to decide, before the Treaty is executed, to what financial responsibility we are prepared to go? Cannot we discuss that first and leave the Government to discuss the details?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeSir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Will my right hon. Friend quite definitely arrange that this Treaty shall be submitted to Parliament for its approval after it has been before the League of Nations?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Did the right hon. Gentleman expect to get any other answer than that he has received from any organised body of employers—employers who desire to destroy trade unions by every means in their power?Mr. LUNN
: Are we to understand that the Allied Draft Mandates, namely, the French Draft Mandate, will be published, as well as the British Draft Mandates?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Why did General Crozier resign, and why was his resignation accepted?Captain REDMOND
931: Is it not a fact that before this investigation took place by General Crozier, the Commandant of the Auxiliary Division, he had consulted General Tudor, and that General Tudor had approved of the action he was about to take, and that after this investigation he again reported upon it and that General Tudor further approved of the further action he was about to take, namely, bringing the men to Dublin as he did, parading them and telling them of the nature of the decision that was arrived at; and whether on the third occasion after he had done this the Commandant did not acquaint General Tudor with what he had done and whether General Tudor did not for the third time approve of the action he had taken; and if that is the case what is the reason for
931Captain REDMOND
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeCaptain REDMOND
: In view of the fact that the action of General Crozier throughout the whole of these proceedings was approved of and concurred in by General Tudor, what is the reason for General Tudor accepting the resignation of General Crozier?Captain REDMOND
: In view of the unsatisfactory nature of the reply made by the right hon. Gentleman, I beg to ask leave to move the Adjournment of the House to call attention to a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, "the re-employment as policemen of 26 Auxiliary Cadets of N Company Auxiliary Division, Royal Irish Constabulary, after their services had been dispensed with by reason of their unsuitability for duty, with the approval of the police adviser, and the consequent resignation of the Commandant of the Auxiliary Division."Captain REDMOND
: Is it not a fact that the question and answer given the other day did not touch the question in the last part of the question before the House, namely, what arrangements are to be made for the attendance of a British representative and of British witnesses?Sir E. HUME-WILLIAMS
48.  asked the Prime Minister whether a date has yet been fixed for the trial at Leipzig of Germans charged with cruelty to British prisoners of war; if he can give the names of those Germans who are to be-first tried; and what arrangements have been made for the attendance of British witnesses and of a British representative to be present at the trial?Sir E. HUME-WILLIAMS
rose roseMr. J. JONES and Sir E. HUME-WILLIAMS
925: Can the right hon. and learned Gentleman give
925Sir E. HUME-WILLIAMS
52.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the crimes of arson committed in and around Manchester during the last fortnight; what is the extent of the loss incurred; if there is evidence that the crimes were the work of Sinn Feiners; and whether steps have been taken to trace and arrest those responsible?Lieut.-Colonel HURST
: Would the right hon. Gentleman consider the advisability of organising some of the many unemployed ex-service men in Manchester as auxiliary police?Lieut.-Colonel HURST
: Will the right hon. and learned Gentleman inform the House as to the number of these accused Germans who are in Germany?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Was this nomination made by the Governor of the Punjab without any suggestion from home or from the Government of India?Sir H. CRAIK
: Can the system which the Government have instituted in India be described as one of Home Rule? On the contrary, is it not a system which is described by the newfangled word "diarchy," or divided rule, with common responsibility of this House and the Legislative Council?Sir H. CRAIK
26.  asked the Minister of Labour how many contracts have to his knowledge gone abroad during the past six months owing to labour disputes at home; what are the facts in each case; and what action he has taken to prevent such unfortunate occurrences?Mr. CLOUGH
34. 916 asked the Minister of Labour what steps are being taken to
916Mr. CLOUGH
45.  asked the Prime Minister whether any parts of the British Empire and, if so, how many, have regulated their own rates of exchange; and whether there is any general policy governing official procedure in this matter?Mr. CLOUGH
23.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty how the money which was collected by public subscription for the Jack Cornwall, V.C., National Memorial Fund was expended, and if a balance sheet can be circulated for the information of his shipmates and others who subscribed towards the fund?Sir T. BRAMSDON
56.  asked the Lord Privy Seal if he will give facilities for the introduction of a Bill giving power to the Chancellor of the Exchequer to ration moneys or the price of moneys used by local authorities in respect to local services or that power be given to him to raise moneys for such purposes at a standard cheaper rate than now obtains by such local authorities?Mr. SUGDEN
: Is there no Member of this House to whom a question can be addressed as to the use to which this surplus shall be applied?Sir R. ADKINS
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that for twelve months past, every week practically, I have had the same reply that negotiations are in active progress? For nineteen months these men have been out of employment, not only to their own detriment, but to the immense cost of the State. Does the right hon. Gentleman not think it time that some of them were put into immediate employment, especially as work is awaiting them at Ilford?Sir W. DAVISON
35.  asked the Minister of Labour when he expects to be in a position to put into employment in the building of urgently needed houses the 50,000 ex-service men on whose behalf he has been engaged for over 18 months in futile negotiations with the building trades unions; whether he is aware that large numbers of these men could secure immediate employment in the building of houses on the London County Council's garden city scheme at Ilford, where the building trades unions have vetoed the erection of houses made of concrete blocks except by qualified union bricklayers; and what action he is taking in this matter in view of the urgency of the existing unemployment problem?Sir W. DAVISON
40.  asked the Minister of Labour what is the number of unemployed women registered at labour exchanges; what proportion of this number are in receipt of unemployment pay; and whether it is a fact that large numbers of these women could obtain employment in domestic service, but refuse this form of employment?Sir W. DAVISON
: As this matter is one of great importance, may I ask whether the Members of this House cannot get information from the Secretary of State for India as to certain action which may have been taken by the Governor or some of his Ministers? Are we not entitled to ask that question?Sir W. DAVISON
: Is it not a matter for this House to know whether a man responsible for the Government of India, who has been appointed to high office under the Crown, is a convicted rebel? I submit that we are entitled to that information.Sir W. DAVISON
10. 900 asked the Secretary of State for India whether he is aware that Mr. Har Kishan Lal, who was convicted on a charge of conspiracy to wage war and of abetting the waging of war against the King, was sentenced to transportation for life and forfeiture of property, and was subsequently pardoned as an act of clemency, has now been selected by the governor of the Punjab as one of his two Indian ministers who will be charged with the administration of public works, education, excise, commerce and industry, local government, etc.; whether in the discharge of this office he will have control over large numbers of British and Indian officials, and will exercise great patronage with wide financial powers; whether the Secretary of State is aware of the bitter feeling which this appointment has caused among His Majesty's loyal subjects, both British and Indian;
900Sir W. DAVISON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that this action of showing favour to rebels is driving many loyal subjects into the hands of the extremists?Sir W. DAVISON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware, and is it not a fact, that the action of the Governor is subject to the superintendence, direction, and control of the Secretary of State?Sir W. DAVISON
: I agree.Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
: By no means. If that is what my hon. and gallant Friend means, I think he will see, if he looks at his question, that his words do not convey that meaning. If he asks me the general question as to flour, as distinguished from wheat, I would point out, in the first place, that there has always been a considerable importation of flour into this country, because bakers in certain localities—for instance, Scotland—require a particular class of flour which is not commonly milled in this country, to suit the convenience of their customers, and, in the second place, speaking from memory, I think he will find the importation of flour this last year has been less than the pre-War importation.Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
: I have been asked to reply. So far as I am aware all wheat imported into this country and fit for milling is at the present time milled into flour in this country.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of FOOD (Sir W. Mitchell-Thomson)
: Is it a fact, as stated in Question 14, that this man is a convicted rebel, and that he holds jurisdiction over a large number of Europeans?Viscount CURZON
14.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether Har Kishan Lal, who was committed as a rebel in the rebellion of 1919, has been appointed as a minister in the Punjab; whether since his release he has continued to take part in rebel agitation; whether in his new appointment he will have a very large number of loyal subjects of the Crown, both British and Indian, under his jurisdiction; and whether, as such an appointment is an insult to all loyalists throughout the Empire, it can be reconsidered?Captain Viscount CURZON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman exercise his influence with the Leader of the House to secure the release of the hon. Member for East Leyton (Mr. Malone)?Viscount CURZON
13.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he can give any particulars as to the fatal riots reported at Naihati; whether they were directly due to the visit of Gandhi; and, if so, whether any action was taken against him?Viscount CURZON
20.  asked Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty how many battleships left England on the present cruise of the Atlantic Fleet and how many of these ships were flagships?Viscount CURZON
7. 1104 asked the Minister of Pensions whether he is aware that the appeal of Sergeant J. P. Wicks, No. 288,874, Labour Corps, Colne Villa, Colchester, in respect of loss of eyesight, was heard by the appeal tribunal, Sloane Square, on the 11th November, 1920; that
1104Captain COOTE
: Are we to understand that in a case where the appeal tribunal deliberately breaks a bargain come to with the appellant, the appellant has no redress whatever against such procedure? Is there not a court of reference to the Lord Chancellor?Captain COOTE
9.  asked the Minister of Pensions whether he is aware that great difficulty is caused to men drawing allowances when under treatment at home but unable to work in finding persons in responsible positions to witness the form M.P.M.S.D. 29, as the witnesses almost invariably understand that in signing the document they are vouching for the accuracy of the man's statement; and whether, in view of the undertaking on the form that the pensioner will at once notify the local committee if he undertakes paid work, the Ministry of Pensions will limit the obligation to complete the form every week to those men who are able to work but who are required on medical grounds to abstain from using their earning capacity, and that in the case of those where the medical certificate shows total incapacity for work the form should only be completed each time the man comes up for review by the medical referee?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
13.  asked the Minister of Pensions if he is aware that there is delay in appellants having their cases heard before an appeal tribunal, particularly in the London region; whether recommendations have been made for considerable increase in the number of these courts; if he can give any reason why there has been such delay in recommendations being carried out; and what steps it is intended to take to remedy this unsatisfactory state of affairs?Lieut.-Colonel Sir F. HALL
1108: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that when the four courts
1108Sir F. HALL
: Will the right hon. Gentleman see the Lord Chancellor on the matter as soon as possible?Sir F. HALL
: What about the £8,000,000?An HON. MEMBER
56.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he can state what is the total amount which has been awarded for malicious injury claims in Ireland during the last year; whether many of these claims are not contested by the local authorities concerned, with the result that awards are being made in many instances without a proper scrutiny; and whether, with a view to avoiding an undue expenditure of public money, the Government will appoint a Commission forthwith to re-examine all such claims and fix, with the assistance of experts, the amount that should be awarded in each case, and to make recommendations as to how the liability for these payments is to be met, seeing that in most cases those who inflict the damage are not ratepayers and often come from outside the districts chargeable?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman, while taking into consideration whether or not a Committee shall be appointed, take early steps to prevent further public moneys being paid out on these uncontested claims, and before the matter has been further looked into?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Yes, but apart from the injustice to the Exchequer will the right hon. Gentleman consider the injustice to the ratepayers of Ireland, and see that their money is not paid out owing to the default of their local authorities to contest these claims?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say why the people in this country are asking for the telephone to be cut off?Mr. J. JONES
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that he said yesterday he knew nothing whatever about this business until he saw it in "The Times"?Mr. J. JONES
1131: Do I understand aright that these men were under military law when their case was investigated and they were dismissed the force
1131Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: Why not work overtime?Mr. J. JONES
: May I draw attention to the fact that the Standing Order deals with urgent matters. If a matter be put off for four days, may I very respectfully suggest that it can be no longer urgent.Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Then we will have it now.Mr. J. JONES
: I think it will be more convenient to the House if the hon. and gallant Gentleman will take his discussion on Tuesday, subject to the permission of Mr. Speaker, which has been already given. He is master, and not the Government.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: In view of the desirability of avoiding precedents of this kind, will it not be possible to take the discussion on one of the Supplementary Estimates early next week? [HON. MEMBERS:"No."]Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: Arrangements are being made with a view to meeting the situation which will arise on the exhaustion of the lump-sum compensation money granted to the widows of the fishermen in question.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
33.  asked the Prime Minister if he is aware of the urgent necessity for the Amendment of the existing Salmon and Fresh Water Fishery Acts; and whether a Bill will be introduced to effect this?Colonel BURN
: The Bill is under consideration, and until it has been considered I am not in a position to make any statement.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman not aware that the fishing industry has been very sadly neglected, and that if the Government only gave it sympathetic assistance there is no saying to what extent it might be developed?Colonel BURN
: I cannot accept the preliminary statement of my hon. and gallant Friend, but I am not well informed on the subject. The Bill is being prepared; that is all I can say.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I am afraid I cannot.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: With the exception of the hours of divine service, when visitors are not allowed to be walking about, the Abbey is open to the public throughout the whole year until dark. I do not think it desirable to recommend that visitors-should be admitted up to a later hour.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Apart from other considerations, it would not, I am informed, be administratively possible to make a retrospective reduction as suggested by my hon. Friend.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: No. The hon. Gentleman is mistaken in the statement made by the Leader of the House; it was not to that effect.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: What other considerations?Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I have not thought it worth while to answer that question myself, because it is administratively impossible.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I cannot carry in my head the terms of reference, and I do not know what would be possible to the Committee, but whether the thing is administratively possible or not perhaps administrators are as competent to form an opinion on as anyone else.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: If a comparable proposition were put up with regard to the Income Tax, I should give the same answer.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: The deliveries in kind which have up to the present been allocated by the Reparation Commission to the British Empire consist of 3,181 tons of dyestuffs and 304 ships amounting to 1,508,000 gross tons. Of these 262 ships have been sold for £13,000,000. From the proceeds of sale there will have to be deducted expenses incurred in repairing ex-enemy ships to the amount of £3,100,000. I have not the information required to answer the question in so far as deliveries not allocated to the British Empire are concerned.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I cannot answer questions of that kind. I have no personal knowledge of the matter. As to the extent to which reparations in kind have passed to France or Belgium, I am not aware. I do not dispute what the hon. Member opposite says; I do not know exactly what the Prime Minister said the other day. I am speaking only of reparations in kind.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Not so far as I am aware.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I do not object to information of that kind being made available by the Reparations Commission. It is beyond my control.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I am not certain they themselves would give the information.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: No, Sir; I am not aware that they are out of work in consequence of the ships being disposed of.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I really do not think it is my business to answer questions of that kind. It would make the House ridiculous if I did. [An HON. MEMBER: "Does the right hon. Gentleman know?"] A thousand millions.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
46.  asked the Prime Minister if he will take an early opportunity of making a statement as to the proposed reparation terms to Germany recently settled in Paris, so that the German delegates who are to discuss the matter at the London Conference may be advised of the views of the House on the general principles involved and that those who are opposed to exacting monetary contribution from Germany for her wanton attack on Europe may have an opportunity of expressing their views and their reason for adopting such an attitude?Sir F. HALL
: My right hon. Friend the Prime Minister has already made a full statement on this subject during the Debate on the Address, to which at present there is nothing to add.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I am informed by the British Delegate on the Reparation Commission that Germany has delivered to the Commission the 20 milliard marks gold bearer bonds under Section 1 of paragraph 12 of Annex II to Part VIII of the Treaty of Versailles, and the 40 milliard marks gold bearer bonds under Section (2) of the same paragraph, together with a covering undertaking in writing to issue when required by the Commission a further instalment of 40 milliard marks gold bearer bonds. The exact relation between these bonds and the payments proposed by the Supreme Council at Paris in the Agreement of 29th January, 1921, is one of the questions to be discussed by the Supreme Council next week.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: This is a hypothetical question, which I cannot undertake to answer at the present stage.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harms worth)
: The terms of the Mandates for the ex-German territories of Togoland and the Cameroons have been agreed upon by His Majesty's Government and the French Government, and the instruments embodying that agreement have been submitted to the Council of the League of Nations. Until they have been approved by the Council, I am not in a position to make any statement as regards the second part of the question.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I must have notice of that.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Are we still to understand that the proposition of the War Office is to pay £45 per annum for each registered car? I have seen the document myself. Is it intended, without discussion in this House, to make such an astounding financial arrangement as that?Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: Do I understand the right hon. Gentleman to say that he does not make a promise that this House shall consider such an astounding proposition before it is carried out?Lieut.-Colonel WARD
40.  asked the Prime Minister how soon the Government propose to re-introduce the Ministry of Health (Miscellaneous Provisions) Bill of last Session?Mr. TREVELYAN THOMSON
43.  asked the Prime Minister to what Government Department is entrusted the taking of the Census for 1921; whether it is intended to vary the facts to be ascertained under the Census from those ascertained in the Census of 1911; and whether, in view of the fact that no inquiry into the consumption of food and other commodities known as the cost of living has been made since 1904, he will take the opportunity of the taking of the Census to make inquiries into the cost of living in selected middle-class and working-class households?Colonel NEWMAN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the last estimate of the cost of living was made in 1904? Is it not time we got something up-to-date?Colonel NEWMAN
: The natural opportunity for the discussion of this subject would, I think, be the Foreign Office Vote.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
47.  asked the Lord Privy Seal if there are any British prisoners in the hands of the Turkish Government at Angora; if so, what is their number; whether any Nationalist Turks have been captured by the British forces; and if he will state what steps have been taken to secure the release of the British prisoners?Sir F. HALL
: There are 22 British prisoners in the hands of the Turkish Nationalists, and there are a number of Nationalists in British custody. The Government of Angora when previously approached refused to discuss the release of the British prisoners. It is hoped that the matter may be settled at the present conference.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Is it to be understood that this matter will be raised during the visit of the Turkish representatives to this country?Sir F. HALL
: I hope, as I have said, that that will be so.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: But may I press the right hon. Gentleman upon this matter: whether we are to understand that it will be raised so that these British soldiers may be released?Sir F. HALL
: I myself am not in a position to give that promise, but I will make representations to the heads of our delegation.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: To-morrow, Friday, we propose to take Supplementary Estimates, four Votes in Class I and the first two in Class II.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I think that is so.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Less than you spend on the Black and Tans in Ireland.Mr. J. JONES
12101209: I understand that the procedure of the House will make it impossible to take an Amendment which I have down in my name and in the name of the hon. Member for Newcastle, East (Major Barnes) if this Amendment is defeated, and therefore I would like to say a word or two on behalf of the alternative proposal to substitute 20s. instead of 18s. I am aware that yesterday when this suggestion was made, and made in all quarters of the House, the Minister was not able to consider it very favourably. He rather turned a deaf ear to it; but wisdom cometh in the morning, and I hope that on further reflection he may find it possible to meet the case so ably put by my right hon. Friend the Member for Miles Platting for some increase, by accepting the Amendment substituting 20s. I think I can show in a word or two that it can be done without exceeding in any way the financial arrangements of the scheme. The Minister says he is going to find the money by taking £15,000,000 from the reserve fund of £20,000,000 which has accumulated since the original Act was passed. If we are going to take £15,000,000 from £20,000,000, there is no great principle involved in taking the other five, which is the amount required, according to the Minister, in order to make the 18s. up to 20s. during the next year. I submit the point the Committee should consider is the position of the country in the immediate present and during the next twelve months. We are as the right hon. Gentleman has said, passing through a great industrial crisis, and it behoves us from every point of
12101209Mr. T. THOMSON
1211: I cannot understand why the Minister has not given the least indication that the Government are going to improve on the conditions of this Bill. I could understand them refusing that Amendment, because it does involve not only a change in policy but such a large amount as might very well stagger the Minister at the present time, though I believe that the Government might have accepted even that Amendment if it had been impressed as much with the necessity of expenditure at home as it has been im-
1211Major BARNES
: That figure brings the thing more into perspective. The claim under the railway agreements is a claim for from £100,000,000 to £200,000,00 for 800,000 people. That claim will be urged with great force and eloquence by my hon. Friend opposite, and we shall have a very much fuller House than this and a great deal more interest in the matter, and we shall find that claim pressed—Major BARNES
1212: I bow to your ruling, but as probably the effect of my illustration is felt, I am content to leave it. If the Minister had told us that he was going to accept the Amendment I think that we should have been so overcome by astonishment as to be incapable of any further action for the rest of the evening, but he not only refuses that but he has not given the least indication that he is going to improve by a single penny on the present proposition. I agree with
1212Major BARNES
: The fund is not necessarily bankrupt because the money is used for the purposes for which it was contributed. Why cannot he give the people back at least their own money? He is not asked to find a single penny from the Treasury. All he is asked to do is not to hang on to this money which is wanted now until the time comes when it will not be wanted, but to spend the money at the time when it will do the most good. Somebody has infused an amount of caution into the right hon. Gentleman which has not always characterised him. He would not occupy the exalted position which he now occupies if all the actions of his life had been characterised by the caution which is now shown. He has taken risks all along his career. I remember a risk which he took at a place called Leamington which I thought he faced very well. Let him face this risk of spending this extra £5,000,000. If he refuses to do this we shall be driven to the conviction that there is something more behind this than appears.Major BARNES
: I am going to give you what appears to me to suggest grounds for the suspicion. We cannot feel that the Minister himself would refuse it.Major BARNES
: All we were told yesterday was that the Minister does not want to wipe that out because he wants to have it at the end of the time. That does not appear to us a sufficient reason, or a reason which convinces even himself. We feel that there is something more behind it, that the money is being withheld because it is not desired to pun the benefit up, but it is desired to maintain a pressure upon these people which will drive them to accept lower wages.Major BARNES
: How about workmen's wives?Mr. J. JONES
: The Minister must face that. We have at the present moment a movement for the reduction of wages all up and down the country showing itself in all different sorts of ways, and all kinds of means are being used to bring about the acceptance of lower rates of wages. What does appear to us in the adamantine obstinacy of the Minister is that the Government in this measure are lending themselves to that policy. It has been pointed out by the right hon. Member for Miles Platting (Mr. Clynes) that all the pressure on the Government to increase the provision has been put on so that they may understand the proportions of the question and try to make generous provision for it. The present request is to hand back to people their own money subscribed by them, and the Minister when he refuses that must face the suspicion that there is more behind it than ordinary caution, and that the Government is lending itself to a policy which has for its object a reduction of the general standard of the life and the well-being of the workers of the country. I acquit the Minister himself of any desire of the kind, but I cannot feel that he has got behind his own natural disposition the backing which the more bellicose dispositions of some other Members of the Cabinet obtain when they are presenting their favourite scheme. It is not yet too late for the Minister, before this Bill goes much further, to give some indication that this not unreasonable request is not going to be ignored.Major BARNES
: Where?Lieut-Colonel J. WARD
1228: As matters stand now if we go into the Lobby we shall vote upon the Amendment which has been moved by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Miles Platting. When he moved the Amendment he did so in terms, if I may say so with great deference, of great fairness, and he put before the Committee very carefully the reasons which prompted him to put forward the Amendment. He also, with equal fairness, promised to state, as he put it, the other side of the question. He was sincere in his desire to do so, but I would make this one incursion into the Debate to say that he did not do so quite so fairly. I take his figure—and I have no doubt it is perfectly correct—that 40s. to-day is only equivalent to 15s. in the pre-War time. He said what is no doubt
1228Major C. LOWTHER
1236: Like the last speaker, I am not a pessimist; but I fancy the Ministry of Labour are pessimists. Personally, I am quite satisfied in my own mind that the contribution asked for from the employer and employed, plus the contribution of the State, will enable the Ministry to pay a benefit of at least 25s. to married men and 20s. to single men. The actuarial statements in connection with health and unemployed insurance in the past have always under-estimated income and overestimated expenditure, and I suggest that if the actuary has based his calculations on 9 or 10 per cent, of unemployed he is a long way out, and if instead of 10 per cent, he calculated only on 7 per cent, there would be a far larger income and much less expenditure than he anticipates. I hope, therefore, before the Division is taken, the Government will make some declaration with regard to what it proposes to do. One of the hon. Members just now spoke of 12s. per week as being too much for an unemployed woman. [An HON. MEMBER: "NO!"] I was at a conference in Manchester 18 days ago, which was waited upon by a deputation of unemployed women, and one young woman said, "I am 22 years of age, my 12s. per week unemployed benefit ceases this week. I have led a decent and respectable life up till now. When my benefit ceases what am I to do? I may for a few weeks pawn my clothes and the little bit of jewellery I have, but when all that is exhausted what am I to do?" There we have the moral side of the question which has been ignored altogether. I say that the 12s. plus the 3s. is only just sufficient to keep women and particularly young ones from falling into temptation, and I appeal to the Government to at any rate increase the benefit to 20s. for men and 18s. for women. I believe the fund will stand it. I do not think we are going to have a large num-
1236Mr. TYSON WILSON
: I beg to move to leave out the word "eighteen," and to insert instead thereof the word "twenty."Mr. T. THOMSON
: The right hon. Gentleman said quite fairly that none of those whom he called the "anti-waste party" had raised their voice against his proposals. My voice was raised on a previous occasion to show that, if any burden were cast upon the State, it would fall upon the taxpayer, and the same observation applies now. The value of money has not increased because this dole has been increased, and if there is a burden to be borne, be it weekly or annually, or whatever it may be, it will fall on the taxpayer. The taxpayer, as it is, has a sufficiently heavy burden to bear, and the increase which the Government proposed in their original Bill was the utmost that they were entitled to propose. I therefore desire to associate myself with the hon. Member who has just eat down.Major C. LOWTHER
1246: I desire to support this Amendment. I have a similar Amendment on the Paper myself, but this covers the round covered by my Amendment. This question of insurance is not against personal or individual risk; the risk is a trade matter, and therefore, surely, there is no reason for this differentiation. No doubt, the reason why, in the first instance, the difference was made was that in the National Insurance Act of 1911 both health insurance and unemployment insurance were embodied and, because the differentiation was made in the case of health insurance, I presume the same differentiation was made in the case of unemployment insurance. But when you are dealing with health you are guarding against a purely personal risk and a personal liability, and it may be argued perfectly justifiably—possibly facts and figures will support the view—that there is a greater margin of risk with regard to sickness when you are dealing with women as compared with men. Whether that is so or not, I would submit that when you are dealing with unemployment the risk against which you are insuring is purely a trade risk and is not an individual risk, and therefore there is no reason in logic why you should have a different rate for a woman who is employed from that for a man who is employed, because the liability to unemployment is not in any way affected by the question of sex, but is affected entirely by outside causes, those of commerce and of industry, and surely it is not sensible to suggest for a moment that because a mill employs a large number of women instead of employing a number of men the risk of unemployment is going to be less because women are employed than because men are employed, and surely you ought to have one fund for this risk.1246Mr. T. THOMSON
: I beg to move, in Sub-section (3), after the word "twopence" to insert the words "or increase the benefits payable."Mr. T. THOMSON
1265"Provided that any person formerly engaged in war service within the meaning of this Act shall be deemed to have been engaged for the period aforesaid in such employment as aforesaid, although he has not in fact been so engaged.": I beg to move, to leave out Sub-section (2), and to insert instead thereof the words
1265"Provided that any person formerly engaged in war service within the meaning of this Act shall be deemed to have been engaged for the period aforesaid in such employment as aforesaid, although he has not in fact been so engaged."Mr. THOMAS
: On the understanding that the provision will be fairly administered, I beg to withdraw my Amendment.Mr. THOMAS
: There is very little difference between us, except this. Supposing an injustice is done; that is to say, a man appears before a local committee and his claim is not admitted.Mr. THOMAS
1269: The Amendment would almost make the Clause read
1269Mr. TYSON WILSON
: I am sorry the right hon. Gentleman has not taken this opportunity of eliminating societies refusing to operate the Act. I think we ought to have it made perfectly clear that this Amendment will not include any association whether included in the Act or not.Mr. WILSON
1273"the employment is in his opinion having regard to the normal practice of the employer permanent in character that the employed person has completed three years' service in the employment and that the other circumstances of his employment make it unnecessary that he should be insured under this Act."1272"the employed person is not subject to dismissal" there shall be substituted the words "the persons employed are not under the normal practice of the employer subject to the risk of dismissal," and for the words "the terms and conditions in which the employed person is engaged" there shall be substituted the words "the employed person has completed three years' service in the
1272: I beg to move, in the paragraph beginning "First Schedule," to leave out the words
1273"the employment is in his opinion having regard to the normal practice of the employer permanent in character that the employed person has completed three years' service in the employment and that the other circumstances of his employment make it unnecessary that he should be insured under this Act."1272"the employed person is not subject to dismissal" there shall be substituted the words "the persons employed are not under the normal practice of the employer subject to the risk of dismissal," and for the words "the terms and conditions in which the employed person is engaged" there shall be substituted the words "the employed person has completed three years' service in the
1272Mr. THOMAS
1274: This, I take it, applies to other classes of persons besides those employed by railway companies. It applies to those who are employed by local or public authorities, to the police force, to servants of public utility companies, and to those who have the right to claim on superannuation funds. The point I want to make is
1274Mr. T. WILSON
: As I understand it, the right hon. Gentleman wants to know definitely what is the measure of agreement. When we came to apply the original Act the right hon. Gentleman met a deputation representing the railway companies and the whole of the unions involved. As we understood, and we have no reason to assume anything to the contrary, the representatives of the railway companies were speaking for the whole of the companies.Mr. THOMAS
1276: That is the difficulty we, are always in with regard to these matters. All I wish to say is that there was no departure on that occasion from the arrangements we always make under the assumption that we are dealing with the whole of the railway companies. So far as we were concerned, we understood we were dealing with the whole of the railway companies, with the result that the Minister of Labour and ourselves arrived at an agreement. Immediately that agreement was made, and circularised to the men, a certain railway company took legal opinion. They went to counsel, and they said, "We want a legal opinion on this matter." You can always get a legal opinion when you are prepared to pay for it. That legal opinion said in substance that what my right hon. Friend and myself had agreed to was wrong. Then it was followed by another company saying, "We will not act in accordance with that agreement." When my right hon. Friend introduced this Bill he immediately consulted both sides, including the railway companies and ourselves, and he said, "Now is the opportunity to put this difficulty right." I
1276Mr. THOMAS
: Or for the railway general managers?Mr. THOMAS
: I only want to observe, so far as the country generally is concerned, they do not, I am sure, understand anything about the Railway Chairman, but they do know that the railways are generally controlled by the General Managers, and the House must judge for itself when I repeat that it is the General Managers of the railway companies that have entered into the negotiations which I have indicated, and entered into them at the request of the right hon. Gentlemen on both sides. As to whether they exceeded their duties, all I have to say is that the country generally assume it is not the Chairmen of the railway companies that run the companies, but it is the General Managers.Mr. THOMAS
1281: I hope, if this Amendment, which is purely, intentionally, obviously and clearly a political Amendment of the worst kind, is accepted that the right hon. Gentleman, who has been so very considerate during the whole time he has been in charge of the Bill, will allow us a further chance of inserting some other kind of amendment enabling unemployment benefit to be given to those people who, from time to time, find themselves out of work or unable to get into work because of the rules and regulations
1281Lieut.-Commander WILLIAMS
: The right hon. Gentleman asks me to mention one. I will take one of fairly common knowledge, though he may not have heard of it. There is the case of the people who wish to get into the builders trade. I do not think that is a thing to which ever the Labour party, whose credit is not very high in the country at the present moment, need wish to draw attention. If the right hon. Gentleman who is in charge of the Bill accepts this Amendment, as he possibly may, I hope he will extend its benefits to other people who do not possess the same support as the particular section on behalf of whom this Amendment is moved, and whose intention it is to help.Lieut-Commander WILLIAMS
1291: I am sorry the Minister for Labour has made the decision he has without giving at least some promise to make some investigation as to whether it would be possible later on, under some Regulation or another, to bring in this class of worker. I do not think the difficulties are so great as he imagines, because it is certain that the employer who regularly engages to have his labour performed by out-workers must know perfectly well whether he distributes sufficient of that work or whether the worker performs a sufficient amount of the work to make it full-time employment or only partial employment. I make my protest against the decision of the Minister largely for this reason, that this is a form of employment mostly indulged in by aliens and others engaged in the East End of London and in some of the poorer districts of our large industrial centres. It means that this form of labour is going to be subsidised to a certain extent as against the ordinary, decent employer, who concentrates his work in proper workshops that can be inspected by the Department both for the purpose of legislation and for the purpose of insurance. You are, so to speak, giving a subsidy to this class of employer to escape the Regulations that are so necessary if our legislation is to be effected.1291Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: Was there no investigation by the commanding officer?Brigadier-General COCKERILL
: The immediate commanding officer.Brigadier-General COCKERILL
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeColonel Sir C. YATE
1138: Can the right hon. Gentleman give any indication as to
1138Colonel GREIG
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether the £2,500,000 includes the damage done to police barracks throughout Ireland?Colonel GREIG
: Is there any reason why a refund of telephone charges should be any more difficult than a refund of Income Tax?Major NALL
1214: It is a matter of great regret that the Minister of Labour has not answered the real point which arises on this Amendment. That is the question of differentiation. It is true he stated on the Second Reading that that could not be gone into owing to the urgency of the Bill; but the real urgency of this question in the country is that men with families are hardest hit, that while women who are drawing 12s. in many cases are so well off with 12s. that they will not take other employment, a man when he gets 18s. will be very little better off than he is to-day. That is the urgent question, and it is a matter of great regret that this all-important question of differentiation in these benefits has not been dealt with in this Bill. The sum total of the proposals in the Bill is
1214Major NALL
: I did not say they were living riotous lives, but that there are a number of women in the country who are quite content to remain idle so long as they can draw 12s. a week.Major NALL
1215: The same thing is true of artisans' wives who were accustomed formerly to get help and are unable to get it now. Women are breaking down. Within the last few weeks a medical man has told me that he has never had so many cases of break-down amongst women, and it is because they are unable to get help in their home. Here, without
1215Major NALL
1196: When the Committee, stage of this Resolution was taken, at a late hour last night, my hon. Friend the Member for Middles-brough (Mr. T. Thomson) moved an Amendment which would have had the
1196Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: May I ask whether you would now accept from me the same Amendment which we tried to move last night?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: I am sorry that that is the case. I take it that we can now only agree or disagree, and I am afraid we shall have reluctantly to accept the Resolution as it is.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Do not the Peace Treaties themselves lay down that these troops are only to be raised for defensive purposes?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: May I press for an answer to my question? Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that General Crozier tendered his resignation because General Tudor had informed him that the offence of the 26 cadets who had been dismissed was to be condoned and that the whole question of court-martialling them with a view to greater punishment was only an afterthought when the matter was raised in this House? Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that that can be proved?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
60.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he has yet inquired into the treatment of Mr. S. MacSwiney, brother of the late Lord Mayor of Cork, after his arrest on the 8th February last; whether he was pinioned and pitched half naked into a lorry, his overcoat, watch, and money being stolen; whether he was threatened with death; and what action has been taken?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: It is a perfectly constitutional legal tribunal!Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: As the right hon. Gentleman has made inquiries about the money and the watch will he now make inquiries about the man's overcoat and why he could not have it given to him? Is he aware that this man had to walk in his shirt for a long distance in inclement weather?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I had full information from the sister of the man and I accepted it in good faith.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
Private Notice) (Private Notice)Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: If the right hon. Gentleman finds that the facts are as stated, will the mother of this soldier be compensated; and will the right hon. Gentleman give directions to his colonel-commandants in future not to persecute the mothers of men who have fallen in arms? Cannot I have that assurance?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
52.  asked the Chief Secretary if he is aware that among the farmhouses destroyed in the Glengoole district, near Killenaule, on 12th February last, by order of Colonel-Commandant N. J. Cameron, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O., was that of a widow named Mrs. Fitzgerald; that Mrs. Fitzgerald protested her entire innocence of complicity in a local ambush and her powerlessness to prevent it, but was given an hour's notice to quit and not allowed to remove her furniture; and that Mrs. Fitzgerald's son served all through the late War; and will he state what purpose has been served by this arson?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I will give very briefly the reasons why I hope the Committee will support the Amendment. An unemployed woman needs food and shelter as much as an unemployed man, and there is another reason which I will only mention, namely, that the woman is open to temptations to which the man is not. The unemployed women are in many cases the younger women, the mothers of the future, and we have every right to look after them as much as we do the unemployed men. If there is anything in the equality of sexes, I think the hon. Members who agree with equality of treatment for the sexes should support me in this Amendment. I do not want to enter at length into the many arguments that could be put forward in its favour, but I would make an appeal to the right hon. Gentleman to give it his sympathetic consideration. In many cases the condition of the unemployed woman is very pitiable. She cannot shift from one employment to another so easily as a man can, and in many cases her health goes more quickly than a man's. Hon. Members who think that unemployed women have all got homes to go to make a very great mistake; the majority of these women who are unemployed to-day are dependent solely on their own earnings. They are the weaker vessels in the body politic, and I think it is scandalous that their allowance should be loft at 15s. We have just raised the man's allowance to 20s. What is the position of the woman? Is her allowance to remain at 15s., or is she to get an extra 2s.? If the right hon. Gentleman proposes, in a sub sequent Amendment, to raise the woman's allowance to 17s.—Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I beg to move, to leave out the words "and fifteen shillings respectively."Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I realise that that is the best we can get, and I ask leave to withdraw.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
1249: I beg to move, after the word "respectively" ["and fifteen shillings respectively"], to insert the words "and two shillings and sixpence for each child under the age of sixteen years."1249Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
1245: Then there is all the more reason why he should accept my Amendment, making the benefits equal. You have just given the man an extra 2s., making his allow-
1245Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Does the right hon. Gentleman approve of the sentiments expressed in the "Weekly Summary," that the rope and the bullet are too good for what, with his usual delicacy, he calls Shinnerea?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the Prime Minister said that seven cadets had been suspended after the burning of Cork; that 30 men are under arrest in connection with General Crozier's investigation; and does he mean to say that there are only another 23 men all told who have been dealt with? How does he square those statements?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Did the right hon. Gentleman not tell me yesterday that those cadets were under arrest now?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say how cadets who are to be court-martialled can be under open arrest when the platoon commanders are under close arrest; how is that possible.Lieut - Commander KENWORTHY
8.  asked the Minister of Pensions if he will reconsider his attitude towards ex-service men who have been certified as suffering from tuberculosis shortly after their discharge from the Army on account of being unfit for further military service, and now considered ineligible for pension; whether he is aware that, while the health of some men is improved by service, the health of others is deteriorated, thus paving the way to tuberculosis; and whether cases of this character will be dealt with more sympathetically, notwithstanding the decision of any medical board examining these men months after their discharge?Dr. M'DONALD
: Perhaps the hon. Member will give me notice of that. It does not arise out of the question on the Paper.Dr. ADDISON
: It would be very useful to have up-to-date figures as to the cost of living, I agree, but what I say is you cannot get them in the Census.Dr. ADDISON
: I have been asked to reply to this question. The taking of the Census in England and Wales is entrusted to the Registrar-General, subject to my control and direction. The 1921 Census enquiries are those prescribed by the Order in Council, dated the 21st December last, and do not comprise any cost of living enquiry. Such an enquiry, being largely concerned with prices, is beyond the scope of the Census.Dr. ADDISON
: I have been asked to reply to this question. I would refer the hon. Member to the reply which I gave yesterday to a question asked by the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Ormsby-Gore) of which I will send him a copy.The MINISTER of HEALTH (Dr. Addison)
: Is not the hon. and gallant Member responsible for the accuracy of the statements in his question? He stated that these things were stolen from this man.Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Having been a personal friend of both officers concerned, may I ask, is the right hon. Gentleman aware that General Crozier tendered his resignation because he thought his authority had been undermined, and in view of the fact that there was a mistake, cannot something be done for General Crozier in this matter?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Ought not the opinion of the House to be taken on this matter before the precedents of the House are absolutely altered? By next week this matter will be neither urgent nor of public importance in all probability, and therefore it is creating a very great precedent.Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
12351234: I hope the right hon. Gentleman will agree to raise the sum to 20s. In doing so, I do not believe he will be running the slightest risk, because the wave of depression in trade is, I feel sure, only temporary. I have never been a pessimist. Pessimism is no good to anybody. It
12351234Lieut.-Commander ASTBURY
11.  asked the Minister of Pensions whether he is aware that Lieutenant W. C. Haughton, late 7th Warwickshire Regiment, who lost both legs above the knee whilst on active ser vice at Cairo during the War, is not in receipt of a pension; whether he is aware that a court of inquiry found that Mr. Haughton was not on duty at the time of the accident owing to his not having arrived back at camp at a certain time; whether he is aware that Mr. Haughton has a wife and two children to support; and whether he can take immediate steps whereby a man who lost both legs in the service of his country should not be de prived of a pension or grant of any sort?Major COHEN
58.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he is aware that the current number of the "Weekly Summary," issued by him, states that the opponents of the Government stand for the right to murder; and whether this represents the views of His Majesty's Government?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
: Is it not a fact that every previous Census has been made for the entire United Kingdom? Is an exception to be made, or will this also include Ireland?Mr. LYLE-SAMUEL
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that it is not generally known by ex-service men and their dependents that he has no control over this tribunal, and that the Ministry of Pensions is receiving a great deal of blame which it does not deserve?Mr. NEWBOULD
: Is there a decrease or an increase in the number of cases referred to this tribunal?Mr. NEWBOULD
: Upon what grounds has the case been referred to the appeal tribunal? Is it because the Ministry have no power in the case?Mr. SHORT
18.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he has anything further to report concerning the breaking into the Tralee Co-operative Stores by the armed forces of the Crown on 7th December last; whether adequate protection is being given to the staff at the stores; and whether he has informed the Tralee Co-operative Society that it may replace the name of the society in Gaelic upon the facia-board outside the premises as well as in English?Mr. WATERSON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman not aware that the damage was done, and that the damage is there now to be seen by officers of the Crown if they care to view it with an impartial mind? Can the right hon. Gentleman say now that the armed forces of the Crown did not do it?Mr. WATERSON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the whole of the damaged property, as far as the main doors are concerned, is to be seen now by the right hon. Gentleman, if he is prepared to go to Ireland to see it?Mr. WATERSON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that this name had to be completely eliminated, or, if that were not done, the manager was told to prepare for death within twenty-four hours?Mr. WATERSON
: Seeing that this damage has been done and that the evidence is contradictory, is the right hon. Gentleman prepared to grant an impartial inquiry?Mr. WATERSON
19.  asked the Chief Secretary whether any inquiry or inquest has been held either by the military or police on the bodies of the two men killed at Ballymacelligot on 12th November, 1920; and, if so, what is the nature of the Report received, and if no inquiry has been held what are the reasons for such inaction?Mr. WATERSON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say on what date that inquiry took place?Mr. WATERSON
: Is this part of the Government's scheme of economy?Mr. WATERSON
: Then we may take it that the armed Forces of the Crown have not been responsible for anything?Mr. WATERSON
1122: Can the right hon. Gentleman say how much the National
1122Mr. WATERSON
1231: I listened very carefully to the appeal made by the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Dun-cairn (Sir E. Carson), more particularly when he made that reference of sympathy and practicality. As for the 20s. which has been mentioned, I am afraid that is not practical when we take a long view. What is the position? I know many of those with whom I have been in contact with for many years have been walking the streets for many months. In one case I know of there is a man who has six children, and he is compelled, with the little employment he gets, to have assistance from the Board of Guardians. If this man has an allowance of 20s., where does the advantage come in if the man has to go to the Board of Guardians to get another 15s.? Would it not be better for the State in the first place to grant the 40s. as proposed by this Amendment? I am speaking from the point of view of the children. The Ministry of Health has a department which is spending thousands of pounds every year upon medical research. This House does not in the least degree minimise the necessity for medical research, and why? Because it is in the interests of the health of the community. As a consequence, if that is essential, how much more essential is it that when that state of health has been secured we should take drastic action to defend that health in order to have an Al population.1231Mr. WATERSON
: I am quite sure my right hon. Friend will not desire to mislead the House, but is it not a fact that by trade union regulations there are always allowances made for children?Mr. WATERSON
: And the other side. We had an illustration of it before you came in.Mr. WATERSON
: I beg to second the Amendment.Mr. WATERSON
1259: One's natural sympathies go with those who urge the point of view expressed in this Amendment, but, putting it very shortly and very directly, this is an Amendment which the Government are not prepared to accept for various reasons. First, there is the great difficulty about setting up machinery, and it would mean not only confusion but delay in securing the benefits of the Bill which the House would be wise to put through as promptly as possible. But if delay is preferred, there again I would point out to hon. and right hon. Gentlemen who have pressed the point that it is reasonable there should be a payment for
1259The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of LABOUR (Sir M. Barlow)
: We will put ourselves in touch with all the interests concerned. The only instance given was the miners. Generally speaking there is no differentiation, but we will take all steps we can to collect the feeling on the subject.Sir M. BARLOW
14. 1109 asked the Minister of Pensions whether his attention has been called to the case of Mrs. E. A. Bragan, widow of the late Private J. E. Bragan. No. 83159 Northumberland Fusiliers, about which the hon. Member for Consett wrote to him on the 10th December and again on the 4th February; whether this woman wrote to the Ministry of Pensions in London on 17th November, 1919, claiming a supplementary allowance as a childless wife not earning wages; whether that letter remained unanswered; whether in Janu-
1109Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: My right hon. Friend has asked me to reply. I have no information regarding the statements made in this question, but I have called for a report.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: There may be no payments at all. No decision has yet been come to. I cannot undertake to answer hypothetical questions.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: If the question is put down, I shall be very glad to ascertain.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: My right hon. Friend has asked me to reply. The hon. Member may rest assured that the advantages to be gained by a scheme of registration, which are very considerable, will be fully weighed before a decision is taken; but I am afraid I cannot undertake to promise that discussion in this House shall precede decision.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: No decision has yet been come to.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I was not aware that any forms had been sent out.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: My right hon. Friend has asked me to reply. The amount received by the War Office towards the cost of the upkeep of the Army of the Rhine is about 346 million marks in local currency for the current needs of the force. For other receipts, I must refer the hon. Member to my right hon. Friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury.Sir A. WILLIAMSON (Parliamentary Secretary, War Office)
: I do not know that any such forms have been sent out, but I will inquire into that matter. With regard to a discussion, of course there is every opportunity of discussing these matters when the Army Votes come up in the House. [HON. MEMBERS: "Too late!"] The expressions of opinion that have been uttered here with regard to this matter will have due weight in the War Office. I cannot promise that discussion will take place in this House before a decision is taken.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: No, Sir. I think I replied yesterday to an hon. Member that this matter is under consideration. No decision has been come to.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I think the point put by the right hon. Gentleman is quite fair, that we should not bind ourselves to anything until the Estimates have been considered. This form, which has just been put in my hands, says it is only a proposed form.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
1254: I join in the appeal to the right hon. Gentleman to avail him self of this opportunity to differentiate. One pound per week for males and 16s. for females has been granted, and there will be payments for youths and young persons between the ages of 16 and 18. There is, however, a very important gap for which no provision has been made, and I am sure that hon. Members need not be appealed to in vain on this point. Any effort that may be necessary ought to be made to fill the gap in the programme. One only needs to be in a working-class district to see day by day the difference in the appearance of the children on their way to school. You can see the lessening of the joviality or the happy human appearance of the children now as compared even with a month ago, and it is particularly hard where the head of the family is a widow who is in receipt of unemployment pay and who has dependents between the ages of one and 16. It ought to be the case that the head of the family, whether it be a father with a wife and children, or a widow responsible for the maintenance and bringing up of her children, should receive the same provision. I appealed yesterday to the Minister of Labour to include in the unemployment insurance young persons between the ages of 14 and 16. Evidently that cannot at the moment be done, but when you get a young person between 14 and 16 thrown out of employment, with no avenue of income, that in itself is a very heavy drag and cannot in any sense be met by the extra 2s. that has been conceded in the case of the adult male person. It may be perfectly true that children of school age may have some sustenance during the periods of their school attendance, but you have children from the time of their birth up to five years of age before they qualify for school attendance, and from 14 up to 16 when positively no avenue is open to them for sustenance. It ought not to be necessary to make this appeal any more emphatic than it has been already made. Dr. Saleeby made an exhaustive inquiry into the cost of rearing certain children, and in his opinion it cannot be done, if we are to
1254Mr. HAYDAY
1227122612251224: One might be led to suppose, from the arguments we have heard again to-night, that this financial problem is one that has been suddenly sprung upon the Committee, and that the problem itself is quite a new one. The right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, and who has such intimate knowledge of the working of trades unions, by long experience and association, knows full well that for many years at British Trades Union Congresses, resolutions have been passed asking for the establishment of a Labour Ministry, in order that the Labour Ministry, in conjunction with the Board of Trade, should act as the barometer, the gauge glass, of the rise and fall of industry in volume, and in order to gauge as near as possible the periods of unemployment as they arise. Consequently, it is no new problem, and it ought not to be made the principal theme to-night that, if this Amendment were carried, the unemployed would suffer, because it could not be put into immediate operation, and because there was not a sufficiency of funds to meet that increased obligation. I want to know, therefore, what has the Labour Ministry been doing since its establishment in conjunction with the Board of Trade, that it has not been able to keep, as it were, its finger on the pulse of industry to gauge and prepare for these periods of industrial depression which are constantly occurring. If it had, it would have been prepared with a balance at its disposal, and sufficient to deal with something even more voluminous in the total amount than that contained in our Amendment. The Labour Minister, in his remarks this evening, gave us some huge figures showing what really the Government had been prepared to do, summed up in pounds sterling, for the purpose of relieving the distress, but the Labour Minister forgot that we have passed through a period that left behind it many, many thousands of men who
1227122612251224Mr. HAYDAY
: Is there not a manuscript Amendment which has been handed in, still to be dealt with?Mr. HAYDAY
: He said nothing of a Committee of experts.Mr. HAYDAY
: I would remind the right hon. Gentleman that he could find that out through the stamping of the cards for Insurance Act purposes.Mr. HAYDAY
12891288a"In paragraph (ad,: I beg to move, before the words "In paragraph (12891288a"In paragraph (ad,Mr. HAYDAY
: Is there not a great deal of doubt as to what a milliard means? What is a milliard?Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
: As the House knows, this question is engaging the earnest attention of His Majesty's Government, but it would be premature to make any statement on the subject at present.The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER (Mr. Chamberlain)
12981297: I should like, as one who, to a certain extent, was responsible for getting through the Amendment on the last Insurance Act dealing with the admission of the friendly societies, to explain to the right hon. Gentleman why it was we supported that Amendment. We supported it without knowing in the least whether the friendly societies would accept the obligation or not. As an actual fact, they have not done so. On the whole, they have done nothing. But we supported that Amendment for one reason—because we did not think it right that this House should pass an Act of Parliament in such a form as to force the labouring population of this country into trade unions in order that they might get these benefits. As the original Bill stood, a man was either forced to be a trade unionist or to go to the Labour Exchange, and, as the right hon. Gentleman, I think, will admit, there is a very great distaste amongst a large portion of the population to appearing at the Labour Exchange. Therefore, in order that we might preserve individual liberty, we introduced this alternative, of which a man might avail himself, and of which the friendly societies might avail themselves. It was entirely done with that object, and not from any dislike of trade unionism. I should be the first to decry any prejudice at all against trade unions. I think I may say that, in the course of my life, I have done a good deal more for trade unionism than some hon. Gentlemen opposite. The Amendment was brought forward entirely from the point of view of allowing free choice to the individual workman, and I think in saying that I am speaking on behalf of the vast majority of Members on this side who voted for the Amendment.12981297Mr. A. HOPKINSON
: By Karl Marx.Mr. A. HOPKINSON
24. re asked the Chief Secretary when it is intended to apply the allowances as obtaining in England to the trades instructors, hospital warders, etc., in the Irish prison service; whether he will take immediate steps to have the assimilation scheme completed and announced to the service without further delay; whether his attention has been drawn to a circular of the English Prison Commissioners, dated 8th September, 1920, reMr. SPOOR
45. 1144 asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware that very important questions of policy as well as the question of the renewal of the Anglo-Japanese Alliance will be settled at the meetings with the representatives of our Empire when this House will have parted with those Votes for the fighting services on which policy questions can be raised; and whether he can devise some
1144Commander BELLAIRS
1255: I agree with much that has been said by my hon. Friend (Mr. France), but, after all, it is a very wise provision of Parliament
1255Commander BELLAIRS
: The circumstances of the War were very special. This is an Unemployment Bill. Insurance is given for men and women unemployed, and it is not intended in this Bill to provide any money except for unemployment. The provision for children is a separate1 thing altogether. If the Government wanted to come forward later to assist the children they would see that the children got it direct, and those who are concerned with the children, such as welfare centres and education centres, would be the best qualified to render assistance to the children.Commander BELLAIRS
: We are working in an atmosphere of friendly compromise, if not actual agreement, and while my right hon. Friend, while the Amendment was being moved, returned a very emphatic negative to the proposal as a whole, I am not without hope that some remnant of the same spirit which induced him to meet the general feeling of the Committee on the last Amendment may still be loft over for this articular question. It seems perfectly logical, having raised the allowance for a man from 18s. to 20s., that something must be done in the case of the woman. The logical thing, of course, is to give the extra 2s. There must be some ground of agreement or compromise between leaving things as they are and refusing the request made by the Mover of the Amendment. I suggest that my right hon. Friend might shorten the discussion by indicating at once how far he is prepared to go, because I feel pretty sure he cannot resist not only the logic of the situation, but his own sympathy with and understanding of this specially difficult part of the problem.Sir D. MACLEAN
: May I ask this definite question? Will the right hon. Gentleman defer a decision in this matter until it has been raised on the Estimates?Sir D. MACLEAN
1216: I do not wish to give a silent vote on this Amendment. From what the Minister has said, it is quite clear that the Amendment would lead to the bankruptcy of the whole scheme, and that seems to be generally admitted; but I do not find in the speech of the Minister of Labour adequate reasons for not raising the benefit to the sum of 20s. All that the right hon. Gentleman has been able to make clear to us to-day is this—that if it was done the money chest would be empty. In speeches made from this side of the House I have not yet gathered that it is the view that that would be an unmitigated disaster. It would certainly be an acute difficulty, but acute difficulties have to be dealt with in a great crisis like the present. I suggest to my right hon. Friend that the Government have not given sufficient consideration to the urgency of the matter and to the fact that an increase of benefit from 18s. to 20s. would be of the greatest assistance. The sum involved is round about £5,000,000. It is the kind of sum with which we are accustomed to deal very lightly in this House. During the past two years such amounts have been thrown about after very little discussion and for very slight reasons. I suggest that if that £5,000,000 had been brought within this Financial Resolution it would have been well worth while from all sorts of points of view. An increase of the benefit to 20s. is well worth the risk even to the extent of the absorption of the
1216Sir D. MACLEAN
: If the Amendment were carried, if the State is not liable to pay the additional contribution towards the money, where is the money to come from, and is it useful to discuss an Amendment which could have no practical results if the State cannot be called upon to pay the additional contribution?Sir E. CARSON
1229: The House, I am sure, listened to the speech of the hon. Member (Mr. Hayday) with great interest, but I would remind him that this is the kind of subject on which it is the easiest thing in the world to make sympathetic speeches. It is a class of case on which one—and certainly I could—make sympathetic and pathetic speeches. I think, however, the great thing we want to do is to try and do something practicable. May I also say that we ought not to raise false hopes amongst the people, or lead them to imagine that the purse of the State is bottomless. I speak sincerely when I say that I would be very glad if the whole community were even as well off as I am—and that perhaps is not saying much— and whatever the class, whether mental or bodily strength is necessary to keep on, there is nothing more pathetic than that the man who wishes work cannot get it. I certainly, if I saw the possibility of the Amendment working out, would support it unhesitatingly. But I know perfectly well—and I am sure, if I may say so with great respect, my right hon. Friend knows perfectly well too—that if this Amendment were carried in its present form the Bill
1229Sir E. CARSON
1251: It is quite obvious that the object of insurance is to prevent persons during a state of unemployment from being in a state of destitution. If you apply that test to this question, £l a week does not keep a family from destitution, or anything like it. It will not keep one man from destitution, much
1251Mr. BRIANT
23.  asked the Chief Secretary how many inquests have been held on non-combatant men, women, and children during the last three months; and how many of the deaths have been attributed to Forces of the Crown?Mr. BRIANT
1242: I desire also to support the hon. Member for Hampstead (Mr. G. Balfour). Those who have advocated this increase have really done a very bad service to the working men, and it is a striking commentary upon the de sire for economy which has been spoken of in various quarters. Whenever there is anything which will increase expenditure but which may be popular, I am sorry to say that a very considerable number of Members of the House of Commons throw aside their desire for economy in order to be on the popular side. Let us consider what the real position is. The right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Labour says that he has budgeted for 9½ per cent, of men out of employment. One or two hon. Gentlemen opposite said that this was an abnormal situation, but I am sorry to say that I do not think it is an abnormal situation. I think it is going to be worse, and that the increase of these doles will only lead to people saying that they will not take any less wages, which is the only thing that will bring this country back to its proper prosperity. Do not let us make any mistake. The only way is to increase production, and the only way to increase
1242Sir F. BANBURY
: Then they assume wrongly.Sir F. BANBURY
: Certainly not. The Council of the Railway Association has not been consulted. The Railway Association itself has not been consulted, neither have the Committee of Nine, of which I am a member—a Committee set up a year and a half to deal with various transport matters. I only mention these facts in order to show there has been a misunderstanding, which I hope will not occur in future. I must point out to the right hon. Member for Derby in the first place, that the Railway Companies' Association cannot act for the whole of the companies, even if the Railway Companies' Association agree, unless the Council also agree, and in no case can it do that unless the chairman and the deputy-chairman have been consulted. Mr. Andrews is not an official. Again, you cannot take the opinion of the general managers and say that they bind the companies. The general managers do not bind the Association. The only body which can bind the Association is the Council or, perhaps, in certain exceptional circumstances, the chairman and deputy chairman.Sir F. BANBURY
: No, I will not do my worst, I will endeavour to do my best. I have been in consultation with the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Labour and some of his officials on this matter and I must say that I have been met in a conciliatory spirit. I regret we could not come to an agreement. With regard to the speech of the right hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Thomas), in the first place I may inform the Committee that I am Deputy-Chairman of the Railway Companies' Association. I knew nothing about this till yesterday afternoon. I have seen Lord Churchill, the Chairman of the Association, and he too knew nothing about it. Mr. Andrews is not solicitor to the Railway Companies' Association. He has nothing whatever to do with it. He was solicitor to the London and North Western Railway Company, but he left that and is acting now for the Minister of Transport. He has no authority to net. for the Railway Association.Sir F. BANBURY
: No.Sir F. BANBURY
: The right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Labour looked over to me as though expecting or inviting me to say something. All I want to say on this matter is that it has not been before the Railway Companies' Association, of which I have the honour to be Deputy-Chairman. The right hon. Gentleman opposite is quite correct in saying some of the railway companies have agreed to this Amendment—I do not know how many—but I am also quite correct in saying that other of the railway companies have not agreed to it, and do not intend to.Sir F. BANBURY
: On a point of Order. I understand the right hon. Gentleman is moving to increase the benefit from 18s. to 40s. I should like to know whether the effect of this would be to put an increased contribution upon the State. If the effect of it is to put an increased contribution upon the State I submit that it is out of order. If, on the other hand, the effect of the Amendment is merely to put a contribution upon the fund and to render the fund bankrupt, which would be the effect of it, possibly the Amendment might be in order, but as this is such a very important point I think it would be advisable to get a ruling from the Chair upon the matter.Sir F. BANBURY
1241: Before the Question is put, I should like to protest against the increase of this allowance. I would go to any length to give an adequate allowance to those people who are suffering at the present time, but I am satisfied that this will only aggravate the great disease you are seeking to cure. We are concerned at the present time in getting the wheels of industry going. You speak of solving the problem and reducing unemployment by improving industrial organisation, but what is the use of improving industrial organisation if you have nothing for that industrial organisation to work on? How are you going to get work into your workshops if you increase the tendency to unemployment by attracting on to the streets the younger element especially, who are, many of them, perfectly satisfied with 18s. a week. I desire to enter a vigorous protest, in the interests of the working men
1241Mr. G. BALFOUR
49.  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether the position of Irish prison officers still continues to be onerous and dangerous; whether the Government is prepared to give just recognition to those officers on account of the unprecedented circumstances prevailing in Ireland; and, if so, will he say when it is intended to give the officers the special recognition grant promised them in June last?Mr. G. BARKER
50.  asked the Chief Secretary whether a representative of the Government visited Ireland in June of last year for the purpose of inquiring into the working of the Irish prison service; whether he held prolonged interviews with the elected representatives of the staffs of Mountjoy and Belfast prisons; whether, as a result of those interviews, he made any suggestions or recommendations on behalf of the warder class; and, if so, will he now say what has been done to carry them into effect?Mr. BARKER
: I suppose as a matter of form that what we are now discussing is 40s., 25s., and 5s. I am against this for reasons I have already given, inside and outside this House. I may make a passing reference to something that was said by my right hon. Friend the Member for Miles Platting (Mr. Clynes). He admitted the truth of the statement that I made the other day, that if a man is assured of a certain amount of income by the State, anything like approximating to maintenance, the incentive to work will at all events be lessened, and I think he even went further and said it would be eliminated. I am glad to have that admission. He went on further to say that he had a proposal to make to get over that difficulty, but I have not yet heard him make it. I think he has in his mind the association of trade unions with the State.Mr. G. BARNES
1221: I did not hear him. I beg my right hon. Friend to remember that if he asks the State to make a maintenance allowance, the need for trade unions, in the mind of the average man, will have gone, and therefore your association of the trade unions with the State will have gone with it. However, I do not want to go further into that matter. I have already put my case, both here and outside. I want now to say a word or two on the question of differentiation. It is a very important principle and not one to be lightly pitched into a Bill at the last moment. Let me say further that it not only upsets all actuarial calculations—because I suppose the Government have not the number of married as compared with single men, and before you could do any differentiation you would have to get that, information—but let me say further that it cuts into another principle, to which I know the trade unions attach some importance, and that is that benefits shall be proportionate to contributions. Up to now, so far as I know,
1221Mr. BARNES
1223: Of course you have, but you are going through an abnormal period now—that is my point. It seems to me that, if you ever have a time when, for a period of 16 months, you have an average of 9½ per cent, unemployed, then you stand a very good chance of a revolution coming upon you. I had occasion to look over the figures some time ago in connection with a matter I was investigating. I went back to 1868, and, if my memory serves me aright, depressions occurred in 1869, 1879, 1885, and 1897 or 1898, and so on. If you go back over the whole of them with the exception of 1879, and then only in certain trades specially affected—for instance, in shipbuilding, for a few months, you had 17 per cent.—but with that exception, you had no period of depression when you had 9½ per cent, out of work for more than two or three months. Therefore, I say if you are going to base your calculation upon 9½ per cent. being out of work from now to July next year, it seems to me you are taking a figure which is far too high. I do not know whether you have taken it so high in order to frighten us, but, even if borne out by the facts, I still would not be frightened, and, therefore, I make an appeal to the right hon. Gentleman to give that 20s. It is not only the difference between 18s. and 20s. This 20s. has figured in the minds of many of us for years back as a sort of standard figure. It would give a great deal of satisfaction, more than is measured by the difference between 18s. and 20s. Therefore, I ask my right hon. Friend to put this to the Treasury, to see if he cannot move their hearts, as I am sure he will open his own to give that 20s. Now I come to my practical suggestion. Cannot we make a deal upon this subject? The right hon. Member for Miles Platting has put forward a pro-
1223Mr. BARNES
1222: No, there are not, so far as my knowledge is concerned. My hon. Friend may know better than I, or some cases that are not within my knowledge. I do not mean to say I have got all the knowledge about the trade unions. What I have said is that within my experience I do not know of rules of trade unions that make any differentiation as between the man who is married and the man who is single, provided they both pay the same contribution. I will make bold to say that, although my hon. Friend may bring forward exceptional cases, I think that statement will be borne out by the facts. I want to add my voice to the appeal made on the other side, and to wind up by making a suggestion. I wish to follow hon. Members who have made an appeal to my right hon. Friend to raise the amount to 20s. In the first place, as I said yesterday, I am not at all alarmed by the statement about the fund being depleted by July next year. That is 16 months ahead of us, and "Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof," so far as I am concerned. After all, the Treasury is the power behind all these schemes, and if the Fund is depleted at any particular time, the Treasury must come in and make
1222Mr. BARNES
: I can only say that on the whole the principle does apply in the rules of all trade unions so far as I know, but when strikes take place, all sorts of irregular and abnormal things also take place, and voluntary contributions are very often distributed according to a man's needs.Mr. BARNES
57.  asked the Chief Secretary if he is aware of the universal desire of the inhabitants of Lower Whitehouse, County Antrim, and the surrounding district for the re-establishment of the Royal Irish Constabulary barracks at that place; and if he can see his way to comply with this desire in this regard at an early date?Mr. HANNA
: Does that apply to the emergency or strike pay?Mr. FRANCE
1217: I am glad to have had so great an authority on procedure as the last speaker indicate how one can vote as a protest against no concessions on the part of the Government without committing oneself to the precise figures in this Amendment—figures which, I think the Committee agrees, would make the scheme impracticable. I differ from the last speaker in one respect. He did not think that the subject of differentiation was germane to this Amendment. I understood we were discussing an Amendment which contained the principle of differentiation. I certainly endorse very heartily the view that the figure of 18s. or even of 20s. is inadequate for a man who has the responsibility of a household and a family. I am quite prepared to take some risks with this fund, if I could be sure that the money would be spent in a way that would relieve the very serious strain being put upon those who can least afford to bear it. I wish it had been possible, without supporting these figures, to get the Government to agree to the principle contained in the Amendment, namely, that there should be a differentiation between the, head of a family and the man or woman who has not that responsibility. I would urge the Government to consider whether, even at this hour, they could not without much difficulty use the money which is available It is a time of great national emergency. It is sometimes the fashion for hon Members opposite, when anyone who sits elsewhere ventures an opinion, to sneer as if we had no right to express our views on such a matter. This suggestion of the right hon. Member for Platting is, as far as I know, the first suggestion which emphasises the point that the head of a household should
1217Mr. FRANCE
: I have already spoken this afternoon on this subject of differentiation, and it is one on which I feel very strongly. I do not very often agree with the hon. and gallant Member who moved this Amendment (Lieut.-Commander Kenworthy), but I agree entirely with the motive which he has in putting forward this Amendment. But I feel at this stage that it is really important that this Bill should pass into law as quickly as possible. As the Government have considered the point which the House pressed upon them, and thereby have practically seen pass from their purview the funds within the scope of the Bill, I honestly cannot see that at this moment and in this Bill this Amendment can be carried with advantage without damaging and injuring the Bill as a whole. But I think the value of the discussion is very great, and I sincerely hope the Government will consider the point that there should be provided either a special grant for the purpose of helping the head of a house with a family, or that there should be added to the scheme some provision of insurance for children at a lower rate of payment, and that the Government will not lose sight of the fact that throughout the House as a whole there is an urgent desire that those who have families should not be unduly strained in times like the present. While holding that view very strongly, I feel that under this scheme it is almost impossible to ask, when there is no money left, that a further payment should be made in respect of children. I have only risen to emphasise that this is a matter that requires very earnest consideration.Mr. FRANCE
: There was no guarantee that the money paid during the War to wives with dependents would be spent on the children, but the State did entrust them with money for that purpose, and there is no ground for suggesting it was not properly applied.Mr. FRANCE
42.  asked the Prime Minister whether this House will be given an opportunity of discussing the question of a War Office subsidy of motor lorries, in the event of their being required for purposes of war, before the War Office Committee come to any final decision in the matter?Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: Can the right hon. Gentleman tell us, approximately, what the total cost is going to be?Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: Is it not a fact that forms have already been sent out to people to fill in for the purpose of getting this £45?Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: I have ascertained that while it has not been possible to include the police barracks at White-house among those which are to be reopened at once, the matter is receiving careful attention.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am informed that the Commander-in-Chief has not yet received the full Report of the Inquiry he has directed to be made into these allegations. He has ascertained, however, that the facts briefly are that Mr. MacSwiney was pinioned in order to prevent his attempting to escape, but was not ill-treated or threatened in any way. His watch and money were taken from him on his arrest and will be returned to him on his release. This is the usual practice in all cases and the suggestion of theft is quite unfounded.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I cannot say anything more.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: That is not the most serious part of it.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have tried to answer the question as well as I could. If the hon. Member will put his supplementary question down I will endeavour to get him an answer. [HON. MEMBERS: "We have asked for it half a dozen times."] We are dealing with a very difficult, very technical, and legal point—Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I cannot agree to that—Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Because it is not the function of the County Court judge, in assessing damages under the Criminal Injuries Act, to allocate the blame to individuals; his business is to find out if the damage is malicious, and to assess the amount. That is one of the reasons why the decision of the County Court judge cannot be taken as final. Another reason is that there is no one, in the present circumstances, in the troubled areas, representing the ratepayers, and therefore the damages may be inflated.Sir H. GREENWOOD
1128: I will answer the three questions together. The hon. Member for Belfast seems to be under a misapprehension as to an answer I gave in the House to a supplementary question yesterday. I did not intend to convey the impression that I had no knowledge of this very serious breach of discipline at Trim, or that the Chief of Police did not mention it. He mentioned it to me on the 15th instant, and I told him it was a matter of discipline, and he must take the steps he thought best for the discipline of the force. I heard nothing of General Crozier's or his
1128Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I thought I had dealt fully with the first part of the question. The second part refers to a letter from General Crozier which I think is dated 19th February, and was sent from an address in Somerset to General Tudor in Dublin. I got a telegraphic copy of that letter yesterday for the first time.Sir H. GREENWOOD
1118: An inspector of the English prison service visited Ireland Last year at the request of the General
1118Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Until recently the bonus of Irish prison officers were calculated on a different principle from that in force in the Civil Service generally, but their rates of pay and bonus have now been brought into conformity with those of other civil servants, with effect from the 1st March last. The pensions of officers who have retired since that date will be recalculated as soon as possible on the basis applicable to other civil servants.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am aware that the position of the Irish prison officers continues to be onerous and in some cases dangerous, but not more so than that of many other servants of the Crown in Ireland at the present juncture. I am accordingly unable to recommend any special gratuity in their case. I am not aware of any promise been given in June last to make any such special payment.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I would refer the hon. Member to the reply given to questions on this subject yesterday.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: My answer, I think, must be treated as final. This is a matter which primarily concerns the Exchequer, and now that the Homo Rule Act is law this question of education must be worked out under the direction of the Act.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: My right hon. Friend the Prime Minister explained in his speech on the first day of the Session why the negotiations for a truce fell through.Sir H. GREENWOOD
1119: Under the Government of Ireland Act, 1920, questions of Secondary and other education in Ireland pass under the jurisdiction of the Irish Parliaments, to which the final solution of these questions must now be
1119Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Very little, very little.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The money is not paid from the Exchequer on these claims. In cases where the Council refuse to recognise the authority of this House, and to acknowledge the law of England, and decline to be represented by counsel, the Council's refusal prejudices ratepayers who are primarily responsible for the damage.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The point made by the hon. and gallant Gentleman is a most important one. As the law now stands, the local authority should be, and in all cases where the Council is not acting recalcitrantly is, represented before the County Court Judge in the assessing of damages. The proper authority for the ratepayer to look to is the local authority, and that he has the power to elect. I may add in reference to my previous answer that money is paid out of Exchequer grants in the way of compensation to the widows and dependants of members of the Crown Forces who are murdered or wounded.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: That is a real difficulty—Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have called for a report with reference to this matter, and shall be glad if the hon. Member will repeat the question one day next week.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, I promise to do that: in fact, I always do so.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The summarised records of the total amount awarded over the whole of Ireland last year in respect of criminal and malicious injury claims are not at the moment complete. In the case, however, of those councils and boroughs which have repudiated their liabilities, the total of the unpaid awards is approximately £2,500,000. Of this amount £155,000 has been discharged from the local taxation account under the Provisions of the Restoration of Order in Ireland Act. I am aware that the vast majority of these claims are not contested by the councils concerned, whose inaction in this matter may result in grave prejudice to the interests of the ratepayers. The suggestion that in these circumstances a Commission should be appointed to review the awards shall receive careful consideration.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: No, I do not think it does.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have called for a report with reference to these allegations. If the hon. Member will kindly repeat his question one day next week, I hope that I shall then be able to furnish him with a reply.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I must confess that this matter has disturbed me a very great deal. These two gallant officers were friends and have worked together for years. General Crozier was appointed to his position on the recommendation of General Tudor. I regret the circumstances more than anybody else, but under the circumstances I do not see how I can do other than support the Chief of Police on whom I rely.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I received the letter over the wire yesterday.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I do not think General Tudor was lax in reporting it. The letter was sent on 19th February from Somerset to General Tudor, who was in Dublin. The text was wired to me yesterday and I received it last evening.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The commanding officer has been suspended, and the inquiry into the case of these men is now proceeding. I presume the hon. and gallant Gentleman means the commanding officer of the cadet company.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: These men were dismissed as unsuitable for the Auxiliary Division. There was no trial preceding that dismissal. They therefore came to General Tudor and asked that they might have a trial before they were dismissed. That is the whole point. The regrettable feature is that General Tudor was not able, owing to a miscarriage in the post and a delay in the receipt of a letter, to communicate that fact to General Crozier.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: In the preliminary paragraph of the answer I gave just now I tried to make that clear. In answer to a question by the right hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Thomas), I saw there might be a misapprehension, and I have done my best to correct it. In my opinion this is a case not of conflict of principle in dealing with discipline in Ireland, but by the unfortunate miscarriage of a letter General Crozier thought he was ignored when, in fact, he was not.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, it is possible to dismiss a man if he be unsuitable for the force.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, without trial, on the ground of unsuitability for the force. If there be a charge of crime against him. [HON. MEMBERS: "There was!"] Yes, I say that there was. There was a charge of crime, and the men asked, and I think fairly asked, that they might be tried.Sir H. GREENWOOD
1132: I have tried to answer that question. I think it was a totally unwarranted term to use, and it is because it was so unjust and unwarranted
1132Sir H. GREENWOOD
: My answer to that is, that General Tudor wired over yesterday the letter of resignation from General Crozier. I do not know when he received it. I know it was dated 19th February, and sent from a post office in Somerset to General Tudor, who was in Dublin. I do not think there was any intentional delay on General Tudor's part in sending it.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I regret that I am unable to furnish the hon. Member with this information at such short notice. Perhaps he will be good enough to repeat his question on one day next week?Sir H. GREENWOOD
: We hold the senior officers much more responsible for any breach of discipline than anyone under them.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The question on the Paper was, "arrested for robbery or other charges." These 26 cadets are under open arrest pending the finding of the investigations now going on.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: My reply was perfectly clear. I do not think these figures include the 26 cadets about which there is so much controversy, and which I will deal with later on.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The hon. Member is entirely mistaken in thinking that permission had been given for internees in one camp to communicate with those in another. On the contrary, such intercommunication had been expressly forbidden in published Orders. I strongly repudiate the suggestion in the last part of the hon. Members question that a military court of inquiry do not conduct their proceedings impartially and fairly.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The number of members of the Crown Forces in Ireland who have been arrested for robbery or other offences since 1st January, 1921, is 62.Sir H. GREENWOOD
1116: These figures were supplied to me, in so far as the Army is concerned, by general headquarters in Dublin, and in so far as the police are concerned, by the police headquarters. I will deal with the other
1116Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have not the date here, but I will communicate it to the hon. Member.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: A military court of inquiry in lieu of inquest has been held to investigate the circumstances attending the death of Patrick Herlihy and John MacMahon at Ballymacelligot on 12th November last. The Court found that on that date these men were in the vicinity of Ballymacelligot with about 30 other civilians, that they were ordered to halt by the police, that they did not do so, and were accordingly fired at by the Royal Irish Constabulary, thereby suffering gunshot wounds; that the deceased were to blame for not halting when challenged to do so by the Royal Irish Constabulary, and that no blame can be attached whatever in these matters to the members of the Royal Irish Constabulary.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am not aware of that. If it were true that some persons illegally erased the name in Gaelic or Irish it could not possibly have been done with the consent or approval of this Government which, with the consent of this House, gives thousands of pounds annually for the teaching of Irish.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: It does not follow because the damage is there that it was done by the forces of the Crown.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am actually planning a visit and I hope the hon. Gentleman will accompany me.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have given the answer supplied to me. If the hon. Member could give me any fact that has not been put before me, I shall see that it is inquired into.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: If the hon. Member will refer to a reply which I gave him on the 23rd December last, with reference to this matter, he will find that his allegations of violence and intimidation against the Crown forces are not justified. The second and third parts of his question, therefore, do not arise.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I do not accept the interpretation of the article in question suggested by the hon. and gallant Member, and his interpretation certainly does not represent the views of the Government.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I dealt with that in a previous statement. It is not my interpretation of the article.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: No, but some of my political opponents would deal with me in that way. I can assure the hon. Member that that is not my view of the point.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: My interpretation is not that of the hon. Member.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The answer to the first and last parts of the question is in the affirmative. I regret that I am not able to give the figures asked for in the second part.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: I will deal with that in a later question.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have read the article in question, and do not agree that it is an incitement to murder.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that on Friday last the Prime Minister said, on his own authority, that deliveries in kind amounted to many hundreds of millions of pounds, and, if so, are not the figures available?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
34.  asked the Prime Minister what reparation Germany has so far made to the Allies in kind, and its approximate value in sterling; and what portion of such amount has been received by Great Britain?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
35.  asked the Prime Minister what contribution Germany has so far made towards the cost of the upkeep of the Army of the Rhine; and in what form such contribution has been made?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
36.  asked the Prime Minister what bonds have so far been handed over by Germany to the Allies under the terms of the Peace Treaty; and whether such bonds are to be met at maturity independently of the sum resolved upon at the Paris Conference?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the whole of the facts about the conditions under which these two men were killed have been challenged; that whereas the right hon. Gentleman said there was a trench ambuscade, there never was a trench there, and there is no sign of one; and that whereas he also said that 70 men were in the ambush, the creamery is not big enough to hold half that number of men? Is he also aware that the original of the photo of the creamery published by his Department is at least 100 miles away from Ballymacelligot?Mr. LAWSON
: I am asking the right hon. Gentleman about a matter which is involved in this question with which he has dealt, and I think I have a right to ask him if he is prepared to stand by the whole of the. Report which is mentioned here.Mr. LAWSON
ad hoc: May I ask if the Consolidated Fund Bill, on Thursday and Friday, is an ad hocMr. HOGGE
1149Dolus latet in generalibus.: The Noble Lord asked me a general question, and I pray in aid, in reply, the legal phrase, "1149Dolus latet in generalibus.Mr. SPEAKER
: The question was intended to hit the Minister through the body of the Governor.Mr. SPEAKER
: If you say that a man is a convicted rebel, I think you criticise him. You do not do him any good.Mr. SPEAKER
: I have, of course, considered this Amendment from the point of view taken by the right hon. Baronet. It appears to me that the effect of the Amendment, if carried, would not be in itself to increase the Treasury contribution and therefore no duty lies upon the Chair to intervene in declining to put the question to the Committee. As to its effect, whether or not it would bankrupt the funds, that is a matter for argument, but not for the Chair. It is an answer, if true, to be made by the Government, and the Committee must take its decision. It is not one of those questions in which the Chair declines to put the question because it involves a contribution beyond the sum authorised in the Money Resolution.The CHAIRMAN
: Generally I may say that no Amendment can be accepted the effect of which would be to increase the amount of the Government contribution.Mr. SPEAKER
: That is a matter of the merits of the Amendment, with which the Chair is not concerned. The right hon. Gentleman is entitled to put it before the Committee.The CHAIRMAN
: I have already proposed the Question, "That the House doth agree with the Committee in the said Resolution," so that I cannot now accept an Amendment.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member is leading me into deep waters.Mr. SPEAKER
1197: I do not think that I quite agree with the right hon. Gentle-
1197Mr. SPEAKER
: It will depend on me or my successor, and, if I choose or my successor chooses to take the same course that I have taken to-day for the convenience of the House, I think the House on such occasion will again endorse such action.Mr. SPEAKER
: We create precedents every day.Mr. SPEAKER
: The course which the hon. and gallant Gentleman proposes to take may, I am afraid, place the House in considerable difficulty with regard to the progress of the Unemployment Insurance Act (1920) Amendment Bill. I understand that, in the interests of the men concerned, it is extremely desirable that the Bill should become law at the earliest possible moment. The effect of not concluding the remaining stages of the Bill to-day may be to deprive the men next week of money which they are expecting to receive.Mr. SPEAKER
: I have already said that I would waive that objection. The hon. and gallant Gentleman is postponing the matter for the general convenience of the House, and I do not think that it would be right to take the objection of urgency as one that would debar him.Mr. SPEAKER
: I do not know whether it would be possible for the hon. and gallant Gentleman to postpone his Motion? If so, I should be prepared to take it one day next week when this Bill has been completed. I cannot say what the consequences may be if these people do not receive the money to which they naturally consider that they are entitled, and they cannot receive it if the Bill does not go through to-day. I do not know whether the hon. and gallant Gentleman will be prepared to postpone his Motion. If so, I will overlook any question of urgency.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. and gallant Gentleman will select his own day. All I suggest is that his Motion should not come on until the Unemployment Insurance Bill is through.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. and gallant Member must postpone any further items.Mr. SPEAKER
: May I suggest to the Committee that, as we have taken up a very long time on the first Amendment, the Committee might now be ready to come to a decision?The CHAIRMAN
: I would suggest that as the hon. Member for Middlesbrough (Mr. Trevelyan Thomson) has this particular Amendment on the Paper, he should be allowed to move it.The CHAIRMAN
1237: In reply to the question put to me it is quite clear that if
1237The CHAIRMAN
: If the hon. Member will put these details on the Paper he will get an answer.Mr. SPEAKER
: A detailed question like that surely ought to have some notice given of it.Mr. SPEAKER
: You have better years ahead.Mr. J. H. THOMAS
: Let us consider what an Insurance Bill means. I refuse to believe that the definition of insurance is purely a calculation of pounds, shillings and pence. It is insurance against unemployment, against under-feeding, and against starvation. That is the definition of insurance just as much as the mathematical calculation, and we are entitled to say that the first consideration in such circumstances are the children. We all appreciate the difficulties of my right hon. Friend, and we appreciate the manner in which he endeavoured to meet the last Amendment; but I do urge upon him now to realise that here is an opportunity of saying that we ought to differentiate in regard to family responsibility, and, so far as this House is concerned, the first consideration should be the children.Mr. THOMAS
: One can only regret that the House is not full to consider an Amendment of this kind. From all sides of the House Members have said in substance: "Our complaint against the present method of insurance is because no consideration is given to family responsibility." One Member said: "Why should we give a dole to the domestic servant, when we know from experience that they will not look for work." Another Member said: "Why cannot this House realise the difference between the young, single man, and the man with seven or eight children." The Amendment that we are now considering gives the House the opportunity of differentiating. We have decided that £l should be the recognised sum for men. No hon. Member will pretend for a moment that £l to-day is too much for man and wife, but in the case of a man with two, three, four, five, or six children, the position must appeal to Members in all parts of the House. The right hon. Gentleman told us that this is an Insurance Bill. What is the meaning of an Insurance Bill?Mr. THOMAS
: I beg to Second the Amendment.Mr. WIGNALL
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. WIGNALL
: Is it not a fact that the Act of Parliament provides for four clear weeks' notice before an increase of rent can be claimed by the landlord, and in this case was it not a violation of the law to enforce an increase without a legal notice?Mr. WIGNALL
: I said that, and also the necessity for tightening up the regulations to prevent malingering.Mr. CLYNES
: In the absence of the Leader of the House, may I ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer 4.0 P.M. what business it is the intention of the Government to bring forward next week?Mr. CLYNES
120412031202: I rather feared that some such point of order as the right hon. Baronet has brought forward would be raised, and I am glad of the shelter of your ruling to enable the Committee to proceed with the discussion of this question, for I submit that even though this Amendment, if carried, would compel a re-modelling of the financial provisions of the Bill, on the other hand it is worth while to discuss this matter, even though we anticipate it will not be carried at all, for very often discussions in this House serve some useful purpose, and if we never had to discuss anything unless we were certain of the fruit of the result the House would have much more spare time than it now has. It is not put forward for election purposes, or if it be, then our case can quite easily be taken from us by meeting this demand and giving the Government the credit of doing so handsome a thing for the unemployed. It will ensure a longer lease of life for the Coalition. We would not mind even continuing the life of the Coalition for a little time longer if we could relieve the enormous suffering and misery now being endured by millions of the unemployed class. There are things which may be said, things of some substance, I hope, in support of this Amendment. When a similar measure was considered in a very mixed Committee upstairs last year, that Committee went higher than the figure in the Bill. It went to the length of 20s. Since that time working-class difficulties have increased in relation to prices and the general question of the cost of living. Further, the Committee upstairs, untrammelled by any of the restraints of such Government or Ministerial leadership as Members of the House of Commons feel when they are acting in this House, felt that the figure of 20s. was far too low and that if money could have been found—I am not going to leave that side of the question out of my remarks—the feeling was that the figure of 20s. was far too low, and what, for the moment, I am putting to the House is that on all hands there seems to be held the view that 18s. will not do, and some very much higher figure is, therefore, a sensible proposal.120412031202Mr. CLYNES
"for the rates specified therein there wore substituted the following:—"eighteen shillings and fifteen shillings respectively were therein substituted for fifteen shillings and twelve shillings,": I beg to move, to leave out the words
"for the rates specified therein there wore substituted the following:—"eighteen shillings and fifteen shillings respectively were therein substituted for fifteen shillings and twelve shillings,"Mr. CLYNES
1294: Some of us had an opportunity on the Second Reading of this Bill to speak in general terms us to its provisions. Really the Bill has little relation to the magnitude of the problem with which it purposes to deal. I will refer to only one aspect of the change produced in the Bill in Committee. The 18s. benefit has been raised to 20s. That is a round sum, and if only for that reason it will carry a certain sense of satisfaction to those who have to receive it. I should not advise a vote against the Third Heading of the Bill, because of the slight advance that has boon secured in respect of the benefit, and because we have no desire to be opposed to these payments of benefits in the case of those who are compulsorily unemployed. In the absence of work a man must have some degree of maintenance, and, for the time being this is as much as we can secure. During our Debates, I grieve to say that a few hon. Members have revealed what might fairly be termed an extraordinary aversion from trade unions. It is to me a most unaccountable hostility, and I should say it is due to a lack of association with those bodies, and to little knowledge of what they stand for and what they do. It appears to me that some hon. Members are led to mistaken conclusions because they judge trade unions generally by some few lapses or by an isolated instance of a misdeed, as they may regard it, and they conclude that the work of these organisations has been for the hurt of the industry of the country and not for the general good of the great mass of the population. If we had not had trade unions, and if the workmen during the last 50 or more years had not had the support and protection of trade unions, it would have been a case of God help the workmen of England! To that statement I do not want to add more at this stage.1294Mr. CLYNES
1295: That offer was valueless-for the reason that when the employers met us they declined to agree to any such formula or to accept the principle of agreeing to any such formula, on the ground that if they did so it would, in their opinion, be subsidising from State funds men who were on strike. If I am wrong in my statement I am only happy, for I should have to conclude that my hon. Friend, who speaks in this House in a representative capacity in respect of organised employers, is disposed to continue his efforts, with the object of agreeing to some formula of this sort. I should like, therefore, to have some clear understanding as to where we are. Probably at some future time—it may be before very long—this Act will again have to be reviewed, and one would like an opportunity of seeking an Amendment of the Act in that very important particular. I trust, therefore, we can resume our discussion with representative employers in the hope of the two sides being able to agree upon a formula which will be acceptable to the Minister of Labour. I think we should have from the representative of the Government a confession of the mistakes made in this House some months ago, when we from this side alleged that the only bodies which could effectively and appropriately work an Act of this kind were the trade unions. The House will recall that we had a very heated controversy, and I believe that because of this attitude of hostility in this House against the trade unions many men went into the Lobby against the views which we expressed on this side and supported the idea that the bodies more appropriate and able to deal with this question were the great friendly societies of the country. Although the House at that time was against us, and although the supporters of the Government—I do not. say on that occasion led
1295Mr. CLYNES
1296: Yes, on this point of administration, and even on other points with regard to the payment of benefit during these periods when there has been such an excess of unemployment and, therefore, certain difficulties of administration. I think he will agree that it is essential for the purposes of satisfactory administration that the very best relations should exist between these representatives of the Employment Exchanges and the representatives of the various trade unions. The two have a common interest in this matter, and I regret to hear that here and there there has been conflict. I submit to my right hon. Friend the point that it is advisable as far as possible to simplify administration, to burn up as much red tape as you can, and to make the administration of this Act approximate to the ordinary workman's mind of how this kind of job should be done. I leave this Bill with the statement that it really does not touch the fringe of the great problem of unemployment, but at the same time with the statement that we are thankful that the House has seen its way to amend it in some small degree. That Amendment has once again proved that the House of Commons is seen at its
1296Mr. CLYNES
: I never alleged that the employers would not meet us. The employers did met us. What I said I repeat, namely, that the employers refused to agree to any kind of formula, and declared that to make the change we desired would mean subsidising workmen engaged in disputes. We are ready to agree to a formula if they will, but they absolutely refused.Mr. CLYNES
: I do not want to discuss the general question now, but I would point out that the right hon. Gentleman's offer is really valueless, because the other side began by saying that they would agree to no such form of words, for the reason that it would be subsidising men taking part in a trade dispute.Mr. CLYNES
1280: I want to associate myself with the Amendment. I can well understand the right hon. Gentleman not being disposed to accept any reduction in the 20 weeks, and I think a genuine effort should be made, in the terms of the Amendment, to meet the specific case which my hon. Friend has in mind of the workmen of Belfast. It is fairly safe to use the argument that if these words are inserted in the Bill they will probably not apply to any section of workers in this country, and that they will therefore really relate to the situation as it exists in Belfast. However, should the argument be used that once they are in the Bill the words will apply to anyone in this country, as well as to the workmen in Ireland, the answer is that the cases would be so few and the instances so rare that no real administrative difficulty will
1280Mr. CLYNES
: Mention one.Mr. CLYNES
: In view of the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, and of your own announcement from the Chair, Mr. Whitley, as to the position in which we shall be placed, I ask leave to withdraw the Amendment.Mr. CLYNES
: Questions have formed a feature of several of the speeches which have been made, but they have not been addressed so much to me as to the right hon. Gentleman opposite. I would like to ask a question of the Chair, and also to address one to my right hon. Friend. Of course, we should have much preferred to have recorded our support of this. Amendment by voting for it in the Lobby, but I think I am voicing the feeling of those for whom I speak on this side of the Committee when I say that we do not desire merely the satisfaction of supporting our Amendment in the Lobby if that means preventing the Committee from increasing the figure from 18 to 20 shillings. I want to ask you, Sir, whether, if a Division were taken on the Amendment now before the Committee, that would preclude a discussion and a vote upon other Amendments proposing to raise the figure to 20s. I would also like to ask my right hon. Friend (Dr. Macnamara) to reply to the definite questions put to him as to whether he can see his way to raise the amount to 20 shillings.Mr. CLYNES
: Might I ask my right hon. Friend what explanation he gives of the very serious statement in the letter that, in General Crozier's view, crime in this case has been condoned? I would like to know what comment the right hon. Gentleman has to make upon that statement.Mr. WALLACE
1130: This is the point I want to make clear: Why did not General Tudor acquaint the right hon. Gentleman of the fact that General Crozier and his adjutant had resigned, and why did he
1130Mr. DEVLIN
: I must press for an answer to the question whether the right hon. Gentleman has asked for an explanation from General Tudor why he left the Chief Secretary, who is responsible in this House for the Irish Government, ignorant of the facts until he saw them in "The Times"; why he did not acquaint him of the fact that General Crozier and his adjutant had resigned, and the reasons for their resignation. Has any explanation been asked for from General Tudor in regard to that?Mr. DEVLIN
: Has the right hon. Gentleman asked for an explanation from General Tudor why he waited until yesterday, when the matter was published in "The Times" and subsequently raised in this House, before sending the letter, and why was it General Tudor did not report so serious a matter to the right hon. Gentleman when the incident took place?Mr. DEVLIN
1129: Did General Tudor report to the right hon. Gentleman that he had in his hand the resignations of General Crozier and his adjutant, and the
1129Mr. DEVLIN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman answer my question? He has given a series of statements, but he has not answered my question whether he has called for an explanation from General Tudor why he did not report the dismissal for looting of 26 cadets, and why he did not also report the resignations of General Crozier and his adjutant.Mr. DEVLIN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman's Department make a grant to the owners of the factories and other property in the town of Balbriggan to enable them to bring back the workers who wore driven out because of the destruction of their property by the armed forces of the Crown?Mr. DEVLIN
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. DEVLIN
: Does the right hon. Gentleman not recognise the moral right to accept the loyal decision of his own Judges in Ireland when they assess damages to innocent people who have had their property destroyed, and should that money not be paid by the Government whose agents are responsible for this destruction? Does the right hon. Gentleman recognise the moral right of carrying out the orders of Judges in Ireland?Mr. DEVLIN
: Why not? Can the right hon. Gentleman tell the House what justification there is for withholding from innocent people the damages given to them by the judges when these judges have declared in the clearest and most precise form that these damages have been brought about by the servants of the Crown in Ireland?Mr. DEVLIN
55. 1121 asked the Chief Secretary whether his attention has been called to the case of Patrick McCabe, a young farmer residing at Rockcorry, County Monaghan; whether he is aware that this young man was taken from his home by members of the Crown forces, placed in a lorry, and handcuffed; that while in the lorry he was so badly beaten that he had to be taken to the hospital at Monaghan; that he was removed from the hospital in Monaghan before being physically fit to travel; and that the results of his beating were so bad that he was hardly able to walk to the railway station; whether on arrival in Belfast he was removed to hospital
1121Mr. DEVLIN
: When questions are asked and the right hon. Gentleman says that he has called for reports, will he send the answers when he receives them to the members who have put the question on the paper?Mr. DEVLIN
: In cases such as those recited by Judge Bodkin and other learned judges to the effect that this damage has been done by uniformed officers of the Crown—damage to property belonging to innocent persons—is the Exchequer prepared to meet these claims and pay the damages assessed by these learned judges?Mr. DEVLIN
: Why is it very little, when you have done all the harm?Mr. DEVLIN
: Do I understand that a rebel is entitled to be a Minister if he is not convicted?Mr. DEVLIN
1243: It seems to me extraordinary that the right hon. Baronet should work himself into such a high state of excitement on this question. The difference between the right hon. Baronet and myself is that he gets hysterically excited and indignant on the side of bad policies, white I get excited on the side of good policies. I would venture to point out to him that, although he may now be regarded as a chartered Parliamentary economist, it is strange that' his economic mentality is always attracted upon the side of saving money when social reforms are to be carried out. There will be many opportunities for the right hon. Baronet to exercise his economic conscience on the Estimates that are coming up for consideration. He will have many opportunities of moving reductions. He
1243Mr. DEVLIN
: I am very glad. It is highly to the credit of the House that there is in all quarters the desire to make more adequate—I think 18s. was absolutely inadequate—the concession which has been made, or rather, I would say, the attempt to relieve in some small degree the unemployment which exists in these islands, and for which the people are neither directly nor indirectly responsible. As I mentioned last night, at the time when the previous Unemployment Insurance Bill was proposed, and the present leader of the Labour party suggested that the allowance should be increased from 15s. to £l a week, I strongly supported him. I thought that it should have been £l then, and I am glad that it will be so now. Therefore, I join with other hon. Members in congratulating the Government on their good sense in accepting the suggestion made, which has been supported, as the right hon. Gentleman says, in all parts of the House. I understand that I should not now be in order in raising a point that is of vital interest to those whom I represent, namely, the vast body of men, mostly labourers, who, through no fault of their own, were unemployed during the period of the moulders' strike in Belfast. I desired mainly to ask for information from the right hon. Gentleman, and perhaps I can do so on a subsequent occasion.Mr. DEVLIN
: Is there any other method?Mr. DEVLIN
1279"that in cases where, owing to industrial or other causes not under their control, any class or section of genuinely employed persons are unable to prove employment for twenty weeks, the local employment committee shall have discretion, subject to regulations to be made by the Minister, to dispense with a portion of the specified qualifying period and to the provisions.": I beg to move, in Subsection (1), after the word "provisions" ["subject to the provisions of this Section"], to insert the words
1279"that in cases where, owing to industrial or other causes not under their control, any class or section of genuinely employed persons are unable to prove employment for twenty weeks, the local employment committee shall have discretion, subject to regulations to be made by the Minister, to dispense with a portion of the specified qualifying period and to the provisions."Mr. DEVLIN
: I will go, but not with you.Mr. DEVLIN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman pay a personal visit to those districts where the damaged property is?Mr. DEVLIN
22.  asked the Chief Secretary how many members of the Crown Forces in Ireland have been arrested for robbery or other charges since 1st January, 1921?Mr. DEVLIN
: Does this include the persons dealt with by General Crozier—persons dismissed from the Force?Mr. DEVLIN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether he is inviting any explanation of the declaration made in the "Weekly Summary" that all those who are opposed to the Government were supporters of murder?Mr. DEVLIN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman not stop this publication, which is a disgrace? He can get the "Morning Post" to publish all he has to sayMr. DEVLIN
1112: Does the right hon. Gentleman endorse the statement that the rope and the bullet are too good? Is
1112Mr. MACLEAN
: Does the right hon. Gentleman not consider that any suggestion that the propagation of the particular doctrine that the rope and the bullet are too good is a suggestion that those individuals who propagate any such doctrine should either be hanged or shot? Is not that a direct incitement to murder, for which, in loss words, an hon. Member of this House has been sent to prison for three months?Mr. MACLEAN
17.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he is aware that a leading article in the "Weekly Summary," issued to the Royal Irish Constabulary and its auxiliaries, contained the statement that Sinn Fein always was, and still is, a movement based on a murder policy, the aim of which is the apotheosis of assassins; Shinnerea is a blight and a pestilence, and Shinnerea is crime incarnate, and for its propagators the rope and the bullet are all too good; and if he is considering taking action against the editor and publisher and owner of the paper in view of this direct incitement to murder?Mr. N. MACLEAN
: Does the right hon. Gentleman not consider that the execution of anyone for merely being in possession of arms is outside the law of this country, and that such a sentence ought not to be put into operation in Ireland or anywhere?Mr. MACLEAN
16.  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether Cornelius Murphy, a Kerry farmer, was accused of being in possession of arms, and sentenced to death by a court-martial and shot; whether he can state how many are in custody, under the same charge; and whether the same method of trial will be followed in their case?Mr. N. MACLEAN
15.  asked the Minister of Pensions whether he is aware that Private Andrew Ross, No. 25573, 10th Works Battalion, Royal Scottish Fusiliers, enlisted cm 17th January, 1916, and was discharged on 25th August, 1916, with paper marked cause of discharge, sciatica; that this man was again called up on 14th November, 1917, and placed in the E.C.L.C., with No. 461725, and discharged on 26th November, 1918, as no longer physically fit for War service; that this man was sent on labour duty abroad in France; that this man was on treatment allowance until 1920, and went before a board and was turned down; whether he has been paid a weekly pension of 5s. 6d conditional for 13 weeks; whether he is aware that he was ordered to hospital by the medical officer at Bellahouston war hospital, and has been there since 30th July, 1920; whether this man has received no treatment allowance or pension; whether he has undergone an operation for varicocele in Bellahouston hospital, and was recommended by the house doctor for suspensory bandage; whether this recommendation has been refused; whether he is aware that this man is still in a hospital and is scarcely able to walk; and, as his employment prior to enlistment was that of riveter, can he see his way to give treatment allowance meantime, and have his case sympathetically considered for a pension should his condition on leaving hospital be such as to prevent him returning to his pre-War trade?Mr. N. MACLEAN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman reply to the subsidiary questions at the end of the main question?Mr. MACLEAN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman take into consideration that these are ailments which have developed considerably since the appeal case was decided?Mr. MACLEAN
12201219: I withdraw that, and say that possibly the Government gave this donation and, having decided to give it, the election came along—not as a consequent event, but as something which had been in their minds even before the Armistice. The Government, at any rate, conceded the principle there that the head of a family with dependents ought to have certain allowances. Now we are told that that cannot be done, but that a flat rate scale has to be paid to the men and to the women apart altogether from dependents. We think that the Government, having once conceded the principle, could very well allow it to come under this Bill. The Minister put a series of questions to the right hon. Member for Miles Platting (Mr. Clynes), and wanted to know where the money was to come from. That is a question that we have always been asked when we suggest any scheme involving expenditure, but no Cabinet Ministers ask this House or any section of the House where the money is to come from when they embark on great adventures, and spend £100,000,000 in trying to help adventurers in other parts of the world. It is only when it is a ques-
12201219Mr. MACLEAN
: Do I understand that an Amendment cannot be moved in Committee to increase the allowances to be given under the Unemployment Insurance Act, as it may lead to a further demand upon State funds which is not already provided for in the Resolution submitted by the right hon. Gentleman?Mr. NEIL MACLEAN
: I should like the hon. and gallant Member to go on an exploration tour to find any women who can live to-day on 12s. a week. We ask that the principle of payment according to dependents should be adopted. That principle was conceded in the first donation given after the War. The Government, because an election was then pending—Mr. MACLEAN
1218: The majority of the speakers yesterday and to-day have been sympathetic as far as the inadequacy of the benefit is concerned. The majority of speakers have agreed that the money which has been built up in reserve in the Unemployed Fund ought now to be used, because a national emergency has arisen. What business man is there in the House who would not see that a firm with which he was associated built up a reserve fund so that when the firm came upon dark days and bad trade, the reserve could be drawn upon to tide over those dark days? The £22,000,000 which have been built up in this fund wore looked upon as the reserve built up by the workers of this country in this contributory scheme of unemployment insurance, and that that reserve ought to be taken advantage of to-day to tide them over what is after all only an abnormal period. The Minister of Labour wants to keep £5,000,000 in the fund by the end of July, 1922, but he has given no reason why, except that he does not want the fund to be bankrupt. Might I put it to him that the exercise and use of those £5,000,000 during this abnormal period might save the lives of a number of people. An ex-soldier was picked up dead the other day, having committed suicide in Hampstead. He had searched for months to get work—he was not kept out of work because of the building trade unions, but was a motor driver unable to find employment. Would not the spending of the £5,000,000 which the right hon. Gentleman wishes to keep merely as a re-
1218Mr. N. MACLEAN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that a large number of shipyard workers are out of work in consequence of these ships being disposed of?Mr. R. RICHARDSON
"Following telegram received from Government of Punjab, dated 20th February. Serious fight has taken place at Nankana in Sheikhpura district between Mahants party and Sikh reformers. Large numbers believed wounded, and one corpse reported burnt. Deputy Commissioner has cabled for military assistance, and 100 British and 100 Indian troops leave Lahore this afternoon accompanied by Commissioner.": My right hon. Friend received the following telegram from the Government of India on Tuesday:
"Following telegram received from Government of Punjab, dated 20th February. Serious fight has taken place at Nankana in Sheikhpura district between Mahants party and Sikh reformers. Large numbers believed wounded, and one corpse reported burnt. Deputy Commissioner has cabled for military assistance, and 100 British and 100 Indian troops leave Lahore this afternoon accompanied by Commissioner."Lieut.-Colonel Sir R. SANDERS (Lord of the Treasury)
12531252: Most hon. Members will recognise that this Amendment is of greater importance than those which the
12531252Mr. R. GRAHAM
: Are we to understand that the principle is acceptable to the Government so that we shall have no further doubt about the matter?Mr. R. GRAHAM
: But if the right hon. Gentleman were to ask for such a return from the Reparations Commission, would they not give him the information?Mr. McNEILL
: In view of the great interest in this subject, can my right hon. Friend have a return prepared to show the amount of reparation made not only to the British Empire but to her Allies?Mr. RONALD McNEILL
: Is it not the rule, Mr. Speaker, that only questions of urgency are put by private notice? Has this question any urgency except the fact that there is an election going on at Dudley?Mr. RONALD McNEILL
: I think the House will recognise that my hon. and gallant Friend has very properly, with the full assent of all his colleagues, fallen in with the suggestion which you have been kind enough to make, and I hope that it will be left there. This is a separate and important question, and I hope that it will be taken separately.Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
1230: I want to associate myself with those who have been advocating differentiation. I think it is lamentable that there should have been added a flat rate of 3s. to the girl who may be living at home and the man who has to support a family of perhaps five or six children, and that shows a great lack of discrimination. I am strongly of opinion that the head of the family should receive more than this 18s., and I would add to it even at the expense of the girl rather than they should not have it at all at the head of the family. I think there is no reason for that, and I believe the £5,000,000 which is intended to hold up as a reserve will provide an
1230Rear-Admiral ADAIR
1257"There were children starving that night in Pontypool. Women came to him, and he was pointing out to them that it was not medicine they wanted, but bread."1256: I want to make my appeal to the Minister to concede this Amendment. The hon. Member who has just sat down pointed out that if the Government would only agree to this Amendment it would smash the Bill. I
1257"There were children starving that night in Pontypool. Women came to him, and he was pointing out to them that it was not medicine they wanted, but bread."1256Mr. GRIFFITHS
44.  asked the Prime Minister whether he proposes to publish in the near future a full account and documents concerning the negotiations with Sinn Fein; for what reason were the negotiations discontinued; and whether they will be renewed?Mr. T. GRIFFITHS
: The committee has got the money, and if the local authorities put up useful schemes of public work they would be eligible to receive it, but 151 of them have not done so, and ten have.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have been asked to reply. The number claiming unemployment benefit or out-of-work donation in Ireland on the 11th February was 70,492. In addition, 42,583 unemployment books or out-of-work donation policies were lodged in respect of persons employed under systematic short-time arrangements. The average weekly expenditure in benefit and donation for the period of six weeks ending on the 11th February was £43,668.The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
a: I speak subject to your ruling, Mr. Speaker, but paragraph 1 (aThe MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
1205: My right hon. Friend thinks that the obligation rests upon me to endeavour to ascertain much more closely than he sought to do where the resources would come from to pay the benefits which he proposes. All our insurance schemes have been based upon
1205Dr. MACNAMARA
: No.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The reason why I thought it not expedient was that it would wipe out the £5,000,000 which I hoped would be in the fund when the period 1922 has been reached.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Oh, oh.Dr. MACNAMARA
1207: Look at what the State has done and is doing. Since the Armistice the State has provided by way of out-of-work donations to civilians and ex-service men £62,000,000. Forty-five-and a quarter millions is the benefit payable under this Bill if and when it becomes law, and over and above finding £4,500,000 a year as the contribution of the Exchequer under the Act of 1920, which is its annual charge, this Bills adds to that £781,000 a year as the net result of the increased contributions by the State, and the Exchequer shoulders £2,000,000 over and above that from now to the end
1207Dr. MACNAMARA
1208: That £2,000,000 will be a capital charge from now to the end of June, 1922. Looking at all these figures—the £62,000,000 for out-of-work donation, the £4,500,000 for insurance, the £781,000 additional to that, the £2,000,000 for the ex-service men, and the £45,500,000—and remembering the terrific strain which the War has thrown upon the resources of the country, that is not a bad performance. It is out of all relation, as it ought to be, with anything that was ever attempted in the past as the right hon. Gentleman knows, and here we are, with all the deadly embarrassment of a war which cost this country more than all the wars which the British people ever previously engaged in put together, trying to make this provision. I do not think it can be said to be a provision which, after all, deserves the rather belittling comment of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Clynes).1208Dr. MACNAMARA
: The fund would be hopelessly bankrupt.Dr. MACNAMARA
1206: When my right hon. Friend gives me his estimate I will tell him how long the £20,000,000 in the fund will last. He has not given me his estimate. I suggest, with all respect, that it is not altogether business to put this proposal before us without telling us how the fund is to be built up, where the money is to come from, if the contributory principle is to be departed from, if it is to be a State charge or if it is to be found by the industry; if so, is it to be found out of the profits of the industry, which is one of his suggestions, I believe, or is it to be found by contributions as between employer and employed. I have no doubt that my right hon. Friend will say that
1206Dr. MACNAMARA
: You will be wrong in that.Dr. MACNAMARA
: It will wipe it out.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move, in Sub-section (1) to leave out the word "First" ["specified in Part II of the First Schedule to the principal"] and to insert instead thereof the word "Third."Dr. MACNAMARA
"In the application of the preceding Subsection to persons formerly engaged in war service within the meaning of this Act a period of not less than ten separate calendar weeks shall be substituted for a period of not less than twenty separate calendar weeks, and if in any particular case a person who has been engaged in war service satisfies the local employment committee that his failure to be employed for the periods required by this Section was in consequence of the present War and due to circumstances not within his own control or, in the case of a disabled person.": I fully sympathise, naturally, with what my right hon. Friend has said, and, of course, I do not wish any hardship inflicted upon these men, but I think, perhaps, he has not recognised the difficulties of my position. We make qualifications in the case of civilians and disabled ex-service, men, and give discretion to the local committee, and I do not see how we can differentiate in this case. I have Amendments on the Paper which, if carried, will make the Subsection read as follows:
"In the application of the preceding Subsection to persons formerly engaged in war service within the meaning of this Act a period of not less than ten separate calendar weeks shall be substituted for a period of not less than twenty separate calendar weeks, and if in any particular case a person who has been engaged in war service satisfies the local employment committee that his failure to be employed for the periods required by this Section was in consequence of the present War and due to circumstances not within his own control or, in the case of a disabled person."Dr. MACNAMARA
: If the hon. Member will look at the last paragraph in the Second Schedule of the Bill, he will see that what he asks is already provided in the Bill.Dr. MACNAMARA
1264"Provided that no person who holds, or has at any time held, a certificate of exemption under Section three of the principal Act shall be entitled to benefit under this Section.": I beg to move, at the end of Sub-section (1), to insert the words
1264"Provided that no person who holds, or has at any time held, a certificate of exemption under Section three of the principal Act shall be entitled to benefit under this Section."Dr. MACNAMARA
: No.Dr. MACNAMARA
indicated dissent. indicated dissent.Dr. MACNAMARA
: It is based on actuarial calculations.Dr. MACNAMARA
1248: I am afraid I cannot entertain for a moment the proposition to recast the whole of the scheme of the Bill, its finance, benefit, contributions and all the rest of it, on the basis of equal benefit for both men and women. That was fought out upstairs last year, but it is manifest to anyone, particularly now that the benefits are to be raised, that to equalise them would really mean that I should have to prepare a new Bill, and the matter is very urgent. But having raised the men's benefit to £l, it will be necessary, and it will, of course, naturally be a logical part of my proposal, to readjust at any rate the relationship, so that they shall remain the same as between the men and the women. At pre-
1248Dr. MACNAMARA
: It is a little ungracious to resist an appeal made on behalf of children. I share my hon. and gallant Friend's sensibility in respect to these little creatures, but, after all, this is an insurance based upon actuarial calculations. The concessions which I have made so far, have been made with due regard to taking risks, if you like, more than I have proposed to take, but they have been made with regard to what the fund will bear. You cannot at this juncture on a claim so urgent as this, make a proposal of the kind now put forward, in connection with which there are no actuarial calculations. I have not the faintest idea to what sort of charge I should be committed. What I do know is, that we have gone not only to the very limits of the possible resources of the fund, but that we shall wipe it out by the concessions which we have already made. I must appeal to my hon. and gallant Friend not to press this Amendment, but to rest satisfied with what has already been accomplished.Dr. MACNAMARA
: From all quarters.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Perhaps I may now answer the question put to me much earlier by the right hon. Member for the Gorbals Division. I quite realise that although technically we are discussing the Labour party's proposal of 40s. for the head of a family, and the other provision made in the Amendment, we are, in effect, dealing with a very widespread proposal that the 18s. should be raised to 20s. I am bound to say that I do not think that my right hon. and hon. Friends quite realise how much this Bill does. First of all, it raises the existing benefit by 3s., from 15s. to 18s., but it does a great deal more than that. It takes an emergency period of 16 weeks after the coming into operation of the Act down to the end of October, and another 16 weeks without further contribution, making 32 weeks to the end of June, 1922. It says to the civilian, "If you can show 10 weeks' employment during the year 1920, if you are an insured person, in an insured trade, then you will be eligible for that." For a fit ex-service man, the period is 10 weeks during the whole of 1920, and I am proposing to amend the Bill to take care that there shall be no possibility of hardship, even then in a case where a young fellow, who was not in industry before he joined the colours, cannot possibly have 10 weeks' employment to his credit. I propose to give discretion to the local employment committee to waive this rule if need be. The Bill does more than this. It raises the 15s. to 18s. without increasing the contribution until 4th July, 1921.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I think my hon. Friend rather complained that he has not had paid back quite as readily as he ought to have had sums of money which are due to him. The position is that if the percentage of unemployment is, on the average, more than 9½, there will be a deficiency, and in any case, apart from unemployment altogether, there is an outstanding liability of £3,000,000, a capital charge—that is the valuation liability of the charge—involved in repaying to insured persons, who reach 60 years of age, the excess of their own contribution over benefits received, at compound interest. That is a liability which has in any case to be faced. Now the Committee fully understands where we are when it is proposed that we should take the risk. As the Chancellor of the Exchequer reminded me, I have been dealing with the whole intervening period which is allowed here, up to the time when we are left with the £4,000,000 or £5,000,000 balance on the basis of the 18s. benefit. If at that time, however, when we are starting the new year, 1922–23, unemployment is above 5 per cent, there will be a week to week liability beyond the income you will be receiving at that moment. If there is a higher percentage of unemployment than 9½ at that period, then there will be a deficiency which will have to be met. I hope no one will turn round here then, and tell me that I ought to be jumped on by the Anti-Waste party. Let us be quite clear about that. I have not heard a whisper of that sort of thing during this Debate.Dr. MACNAMARA
12391238: Forgive me. He receives a benefit of 18s. in anticipation, from the passing of the Act, while the raising of the contribution is postponed
12391238Dr. MACNAMARA
1240: That is a most reassuring thing to hear. That is the position, but, after all, in consideration of the plea made in all quarters, beginning with the hon. Member for Newcastle last night, and continued to-day,
1240Dr. MACNAMARA
: On this point?Dr. MACNAMARA
indicated assent. indicated assent.Dr. MACNAMARA
1290: I cannot take that as evidence of employment or otherwise, and I am afraid we should be committed
1290Dr. MACNAMARA
"Employment in the United Kingdom, whether under contract of service or apprenticeship, written or oral, whether ex-prossed or implied."a: Paragraph ("Employment in the United Kingdom, whether under contract of service or apprenticeship, written or oral, whether ex-prossed or implied."aDr. MACNAMARA
: I do not want to raise hopes that may not materialise. I cannot say whether it will be possible, taking the existing rules under Section 8 (1) of the main Act—with which I am not altogether happy—or under the amending measure that we are now bringing in. If it is possible fairly and squarely to meet these cases, they shall be met, but I cannot give an undertaking that it is possible; and I am very sorry that it is quite impossible for me to extend the scope of this Bill along the lines suggested by my hon. Friend.Dr. MACNAMARA
1283: I should not have raised that point if my right hon. Friend had not spoken of this local disability under which these men rest. As regards Section 8 (1) of the main Act, I do not think that, on the issue raised by my hon. Friend, and raised for the purpose for which he raised it, we are entitled at this juncture, and in an amending Bill of this sort, to raise the main issue, namely, how far it is fair to place a disqualification upon a man as a result of a strike for which he. is not in any sense responsible, and with which he is not connected. That is the issue which my right hon. Friend raised, and I was rather sorry that he did so. The hon. Member for Falls says that the fact that these men were thrown out of employment because of an industrial dispute, and have been subsequently kept out for other reasons, about which I do not know, and which I will not go into, as I do not want to inflame passions, will prevent them from qualifying by proving 20 weeks' employment. He does not say that I ought to move an Amendment at large reducing the period of 20 weeks, but he asks me to invest the local employment committee with the same discretion in regard to civilians with which we have
1283Dr. MACNAMARA
: If it be workable.Dr. MACNAMARA
1285: The hon. Member has misunderstood me. I said if under these Regulations as they will be amended
1285Dr. MACNAMARA
: On this question of interpretation, where disqualification really arises, those are the people I am talking about.Dr. MACNAMARA
1282: This originates, of course, from a very old disability in respect of unemployment insurance, under Section 8, Sub-section (1) of the main Act. I am not now dealing with the local aspect of the matter, as stated by my hon. Friend (Mr. Devlin), I am dealing with the main position. It is a position which my right hon. Friend has always resisted, but I think it is carrying it a little too far to try and get that position upset by means of a side issue on an occasion like this. From the date of the first Insurance Act down to last year's Act, we have had these discussions about the disability that will fall, under Section 8 (1), upon an insured contributor who has lost his employment through a stoppage of work due to a trade dispute of which, it is contended quite truly, he himself is merely a victim. Last year, both in Committee and here in the House, I had words submitted to me with the object of trying to obviate this injustice and hardship without creating an even greater one, and I think my right hon. Friend will agree that in such a matter the course of equity and justice is not altogether easy to find. I said that if the two parties concerned, namely, the representatives of employers and of organised labour,
1282Dr. MACNAMARA
1275: Part II of the First Schedule of the main Act uses the term "excepted employment," and it means employment under any local authority or other public authority, or in the service of a railway company or public utility company, and so on. The governing phrase is, where the Minister certifies that the employed person is not subject to dismissal except for misconduct or neglect, or unfitness to perform his duties. But there is no provision for the case of dismissal because there is no work. There is no provision for that, and it might be that a person and being exempted for the reason stated here, might very well have a claim for wrongful dismissal. To remedy that the right hon. Gentleman substitutes the words of this Amendment. I was very hopeful that we should have got a common form, but I do not know any better words than those put forward by my right hon. Friend. I understand that there is some measure of disagreement on the part of some of the railway companies. With regard to what the hon. Member opposite (Mr. T.
1275Dr. MACNAMARA
: I am not extending the scope of the principal Act. My hon. Friend knows quite well those who are to become our agents. I am not going beyond that at all. If there is any doubt about that matter I will have it looked into, and the proper correction made in another place.Dr. MACNAMARA
1270: I beg to move, at the end of the Clause, to add the words "and those Amendments shall be deemed to have had effect as from the commencement of that Act."1270Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move, "That the Clause be read a Second time."Dr. MACNAMARA
: No.Dr. MACNAMARA
"If any question arises as to whether any person satisfies the foregoing requirements, the question shall be decided by the Minister,": That is met in Subsection (3) which says:
"If any question arises as to whether any person satisfies the foregoing requirements, the question shall be decided by the Minister,"Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move, in Sub-section (3, a), after the word "employment" to insert the words, "such as would make him an employed person within the meaning of the principal Act.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move to leave out the Clause.Dr. MACNAMARA
1268: I beg to move in sub-section (1) to leave out the word "that" ["that fund"], and to insert
1268Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move, in Sub-section (1), after the word "Act" to insert the words "or for the purpose of enabling the association to include any class of its members within the scope of such an arrangement."Dr. MACNAMARA
1303: This Bill is an endeavour to meet the present emergency by providing two periods of sixteen weeks' benefit, firstly from now to the end of October, and then from that time to-the end of next June, and to provide them upon qualifications which are especially suited to the condition in which our people find themselves to-day. It raises the weekly benefit in the case of men from 15s. to 20s., and in the case of women from 12s. to 16s., and that is done in advance of the increase in contribution, which cannot take place until 4th July, 1921, while the benefits will be increased as soon as we can get this measure going. It also permanently raises the total benefit which may be enjoyed from 15 weeks under the existing Act to 26 weeks. It provides in one way and another for cases in which relief may be necessary without any qualifying period between now and the end of June, 1922. All this has been possible largely because of the accumulation of funds due to the full employment during the War, and to the payment of unemployment donation by the Government since the Armistice. I should like, in asking the
1303Dr. MACNAMARA
: That is exactly what I meant. What I want to get from the Minister is this. What is his attitude of mind towards this? I take it it is sympathetic, and, if so, he will have the entire support of the House in that view.Mr. MOLES
: He has just said it.Mr. MOLES
: The right hon. Gentleman interrupted me a moment too soon. I cannot make all the case in one sentence. That is what I was coming to. I frankly recognise that he has not the power at the moment. I was speaking of the position which would be created on the assumption that the Bill goes through. I think I have rightly interpreted his mind that if that happens, and the Committee of experts which he suggests makes the recommendation that he contemplates, he would meet it. Am I correct in that view? [HON. MEMBERS: "No!"] I would rather have my answer from the Minister himself.Mr. MOLES
: Wherein does that differ from what I have just stated? In response to the offer of the Minister of Labour, the right hon. Gentleman says, "You need not make that offer; the other side are impossible—there is no dealing with them." The employers make precisely the same case against them, and that is the attitude of which I complain, namely, that each of the parties considers the other impossible. You will never get any common formula as long as that remains the attitude of any one of the parties. I am sure that the hon. Member for Falls would not make the proposition which he made in his Amendment if it were merely the case of Belfast that is concerned. I am sure he would be concerned as I am with the interest of workers outside that area and over a far wider area. If I understood the Minister of Labour aright, the position he takes up in response to that appeal is that he will be prepared to appoint a Committee of Inquiry, and if that Committee of Inquiry, upon examination of all these facts relating to the moulders' strike came to the conclusion that it is a case that ought to be treated apart upon the special and clamant grounds that surround it, there again he would come to the rescue, and deal with it upon the merits.Mr. MOLES
: I presume that a common formula would not be arrived at unless it were workable. That is a very important admission, and one of which, I hope, those who constitute themselves the special guardians of the interests of Labour will take note.Mr. MOLES
: Perhaps my hon. Friend will allow me to make my own case. I hope we shall not see imitated the example of the leader of the Labour party, who suggested that the other side would not meet them. When each side resorts to arguments of that kind, the interests of the workers will have to suffer.Mr. MOLES
: Two very important admissions have been made by the right hon. Gentleman. In the first place, as I gathered, he offers, upon the general question, that if representatives of employers and employés will get together, and devise a common formula which will meet the case of men out of work through a strike which is no fault of their own, and with which they may have no sympathy, he will accept that formula.Mr. MOLES
: I do not know whether the hon. Gentleman is alluding to me or not. If he is, the only observation I can make about it is that the comment that I offered was based upon an observation that came from the leader of the Labour party. The observation was made in the hearing of the House, and it was to the effect that the attitude of the employers was perfectly impossible. The hon. Gentleman ought to direct his criticism there, and not to me.Mr. MOLES
: Is it not a fact that the telephones and telegraph wires in this district have been cut three times within a fortnight 100 yards from those barracks, and does he not think that the reopening of the barracks at Lower Whitehouse would be a great protection to the inhabitants?Mr. MOLES
: Has the right hon. and gallant Gentleman seen the published statement issued by the Intermediate Board of Education, Ireland? In view of the statements contained in that document will he give the certificated teachers an opportunity for an interview with him on the subject?Mr. MOLES
: May I, then, further ask whether, having left the intermediate education question untreated for 15 years, the right hon. Gentleman proposes to hand over that heritage, and not to make, financial provision for it?Mr. MOLES
: May I ask what is the effect on the shipbuilding industry in this country? Have there been any complaints to the Government?Mr. T. SHAW
1302: I merely want to repeat my warning as to the extreme danger of getting a thing so firmly fixed in one's mind that on every conceivable occasion one trots it out. I expect to hear, when we have an Education Bill or a Licensing Bill the heresies of Karl Marx exposed. Really, however, is not this too serious a thing to make our own individual bogies the sole subject of discussion. If unemployment is to be cured, the best way to do so is to act in a manner that will bring the industries of Europe back to work as quickly as possible, so that the articles we cannot produce in this country shall flow to us, and the things that we can produce shall go to the countries which are badly in need of them. That is the real essence of the subject. In my opinion we have the best body of workmen in any country in the world. I have seen the workmen in many countries, and I know some little of one type of worker. I spent nearly 30 years in a trade myself, and I have seen workers in that trade in many lands. I assert, without hesitation, that I have never seen a body of workmen so efficient as our own.1302Mr. SHAW
1247: May I, without repeating arguments which have been urged, add a word or two dealing with a particular trade which is so circumstanced that differentiation between women and men is always bitterly resented. There are at least 200,000 women in Yorkshire and Lancashire working side by side with men at piece rates, earning the same wages under the same conditions in the same way. I want to make an appeal to the Minister not to continue the practice of separating these women from the men in the matter of insurance under the Unemployment Act. We have felt it to be a grievance, and we think the grievance ought to be removed, and that women ought to be put on equal terms with men. There is just one argument, and only one, that has been used previously which I will refer to. It may be that there is not a very large percentage of women who actually maintain a home, but I know there is a very large number of cases indeed in Lancashire in which the woman is the wage-earner and the keeper of her children. In those cases 15s. is so miserably inadequate that I do not think any argument is needed.
1247Mr. T. SHAW
: I rise to express the thanks of the hon. Members on this side of the House to the hon. Member for the Moseley Division (Mr. Hopkinson) for the extremely illuminating lecture he has favoured us with on the Marxian theory. There is a character in Dickens who on every conceivable occasion saw the head of King Charles. I venture to suggest to the hon. Member that, unless he gets rid of the bugbear of Karl Marx, he is in very great danger of arriving at the mental state of the late lamented Mr. Dick. There is something in this problem at the moment quite different from any thing contemplated by economists, either of the Karl Marx or any other type. At the present moment two-thirds of Europe is doing nothing. International trade is so complicated and so intertwined that when a considerable part of the Continent has its industrial system dislocated—Mr. THOMAS SHAW
: Seeing that the Government refused to negotiate with the Bolshevists until our prisoners were released cannot they take the same course in respect to the prisoners in the hands of the Turks?Captain ELLIOT
3.  asked the number of cases in which temporary pensions have been granted since the formation of the Department and not renewed on expiry?Mr. FORREST
2.  asked the Minister of Pensions whether he has issued a circular asking that each employé of the Ministry shall state whether he belongs to any ex-service men's organisation; whether he is willing to relinquish this connection; if not, what reasons actuate him; and whether, if the facts as stated are correct, he will inform the House of his motives in making this inquiry?Mr. FORREST
: I have been asked to reply to this question. I am informed that the facts are as stated by the hon. Member, who will be aware that, in pursuance of the policy of decontrol of the coal industry, all Government control over price is to be removed as from the 1st March next.The SECRETARY for MINES (Mr. Bridgeman)
1148: May I call your attention to a section of the Act passed the year before last? Section 4 enacts that the Governor of a Governor's Province may, by notification, appoint ministers, not being members of his Executive, and so on. The Governor of this Province was an officer appointed by the Crown, and for the, appointment of that officer the Secretary of State is clearly responsible. I submit that under the terms of that section, this minister having been appointed by the Governor of the Province, who was appointed by the Secretary of State here, we are
1148Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
"Any Ministers so appointed shall hold office during his (the Governor's) pleasure.": My hon. Friend has not quoted the Section, which goes on to say:
"Any Ministers so appointed shall hold office during his (the Governor's) pleasure."Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
38.  asked the Prime Minister what the situation will be if the Diesel engines are not disposed of by the German Government before 31st March owing to the economic situation; and whether, if that situation arises, the time allowed for the disposal of these engines will be extended?Mr. LUNN
37.  asked the Prime Minister whether there has been any agreement of understanding between the British and French Governments as to the terms of the Mandates for African territory; and whether the Government is in any way committed to agree to a provision allowing the raising of native armies for use outside mandated territory?Mr. LUNN
51.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he is aware that officers, who have recently retired from the Irish prison service after a long number of years in the one rank, have not been given 75 per cent, of their bonus to count for pensions as authorised in the Whitley Council Report of March last; and if he will take immediate steps to have those pensions readjusted to their proper figure?Mr. LUNN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman state definitely when this independent committee of inquiry will be set up?Mr. LUNN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the Labour Commission visited Tralee after this date, and that I personally saw the name mentioned in the question blotted out, and that it had been blotted out at the instigation of the forces of the Crown and not by the wish of the Co-operative Society of Tralee?Mr. LUNN
1123: Will the right hon. Gentleman take into account that many of these ratepayers are not Sinn Feiners at all, and that they ought to have some chance to say something before these matters come before the Courts, and
1123Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Is it possible for any man in the Auxiliary Division to be dismissed the force without a trial of any kind?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Without trial?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Has the Treasury been consulted in this matter?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Is it not also laid down that the Ministers so appointed are responsible to the Local Legislature and removable by the Provincial Council. If that be so, would not a deadlock be reached at once if Ministers were appointed to an Indian Province and had not the confidence of the Provincial Assembly of that province. Therefore, is it not impossible for two Legislative Chambers to attempt to share such responsibility, and will it not have to be made quite clear whether the Indian Ministers are responsible to the Provincial Councils or to this House. It must be one or the other; both cannot possibly exercise the responsibility.Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Owing to the unsatisfactory nature of the right hon. Gentleman's reply, I beg leave to ask to move the Adjournment of the House to call attention to a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, "the lack of control of the Irish Administration, as disclosed by the Chief Secretary in his admission that he had no knowledge of the resignation of General Crozier until yesterday morning, and the grave danger to public peace and order in consequence of the action of General Tudor in accepting the resignation of General Crozier, Commandant of the Auxiliary Division, Royal Irish Constabulary, and the Adjutant, Captain Macfie."Captain REDMOND
: In view of what you say, may I ask the Leader of the House if he will give us an assurance that we shall have that day?Captain REDMOND
1133: I very much appreciate the point that you make about the Unemployment Insurance Bill, and
1133Captain REDMOND
: What does the right hon. Gentleman mean by the expression "Chief of Police"? I should like to know when that office was created and whether it is in any way the same as that of Inspector-General of Police?Captain REDMOND
: Why will the right hon. Gentleman not take the assessment of the legal tribunal in these matters, that is, the County Court judge?Captain REDMOND
by Private Notice) (by Private Notice)Captain REDMOND
: Does the right hon. Gentleman remember that in this House yesterday he admitted that a week elapsed from the occasion when a certain number of cadets of the Auxiliary Force had committed plunder, and that he was not made acquainted with that fact until he saw it in the newspaper, and if that is so, and he has no such control over his administration, how can we be expected to take the figures he now gives us as accurate?Captain REDMOND
10.  asked the Minister of Pensions if his attention has been drawn to the statement that there are over 800 women employed in the Man chester regional director's office, whereby ex-service men are being prevented from obtaining employment in that city; and what action he is taking in the matter?Mr. W. SHAW
: Will the right hon. Gentleman see that as many ex-service men as possible are employed?Mr. SHAW
: In how long?Mr W. THORNE
: Less than a million a week.Mr. W. THORNE
: Tell us in what length of time.Mr. W. THORNE
: It is out of the man's own money, man.Mr. W. THORNE
: Come to the unions, we will lend you some money.Mr. W. THORNE
: You have got it now.Mr. W. THORNE
12331232: I was hoping that some Minister would reply to the observations of my hon. Friend. When the right hon. Gentleman was replying to the Mover of this Amendment I interrupted and asked how long would it be before the fund was exhausted if this proposition were accepted. I think the reply was that that matter had not been gone into in detail. The thing is very-simple, because the Government must know the number of men and women out of employment to-day, and the amount which is being paid on the scale of 12s. and 15s per week. They must have calculated how much the extra cost will he to pay 18s. a week, and surely they are in a position to find out the extra amount of money it will cost. They know how much money they have at their command now, and there is the amount they will receive from the 11,000,000 of men and women who are insured, and they ought to be in a position to tell us what the position would be if this Amendment were accepted. Those are simple propositions which ought to be answered.12331232Mr. W. THORNE
: We will accept anything we can get. I think we are entitled to know before the Debate is closed whether the Government are prepared to accept the proposition from all quarters to raise the 18s. to 20s. So far they have declined to give any reply to that. They are sticking hard and fast to the 18s., and in so doing, they are taking up an impossible position. You cannot expect us to compromise in any shape or form while they indicate they are not prepared to offer more than 18s.Mr. W. THORNE
20.  asked the Chief Secretary whether, in spite of the fact that the prisoners in Ballykinlar camp had received express permission from the English officer in charge of the camp to hold conversation with prisoners in an adjoining camp provided they did not approach to within a certain distance of the wire which separated them, and that this condition was observed, the action of a sentry who fired upon a group of prisoners in order to make them stop talking, thereby killing Patrick Sloan and Joseph Tormey, was described as justifiable homicide by the military court of inquiry?Mr. ALLEN PARKINSON
: It is a matter for congratulation there is such a small disparity between the amount proposed by the right hon. Gentleman and that on which many of us would like to see a compromise. We on this side are deeply sympathetic with the unemployed, and especially with the ex-soldiers. During the course of the Debate it has been suggested there is a special obligation on the nation to make provision for ex-soldiers, and I cannot help thinking it is a national obligation, as these men fought for their country. I also agree that temporary provision should be made for those who are unfortunately placed in a position of unemployment, which we all trust will only be temporary. I hope some compromise will be found. To my mind 18s. does not appear to be sufficient. I should certainly like to see it increased by 2s., if not more. I should also like to urge that it is the duty of the employers in each particular industry to meet the difficulty by some voluntary contribution. I support the suggestion of the right hon. Member for the Gorbals Division (Mr. Barnes) that the benefit should be fixed at 20s., and if hon. Members opposite will agree to that compromise, I shall be happy to vote with them.Mr. ALFRED LAW
: I have just informed the hon. Member that a fortnight's notice was given, which is one week more than is necessary.Sir A. MOND
1146: I have been asked to answer this question. These huts have been taken over by my Department and I have ascertained that, without any interest on capital or allowance for depreciation, there has actually been a
1146The FIRST COMMISSIONER of WORKS (Sir A. Mond)
: I was not addressing my criticism to the hon. Member. I suggest that we should realise that this point is one of extraordinary difficulty which cannot be settled off-hand, and will never be settled if there is any suggestion that either side is going to sit down to a discussion with no intention of settlement at all. The point that is raised is fundamental to the 1911 and 1920 Acts, and to have that fundamental principle modified in an amending Bill which is brought in solely for the purpose of meeting a temporary difficulty by creating an addition to the benefits under that Bill would be out of the question altogether. I rose to draw attention to the fact that the spirit which inspires the two sides to industry at the moment is not such as has been indicated in the discussion.Sir A. SMITH
: I very much regret that there has been such an irresponsible observation made on the attitude either of employers or of trade union leaders in connection with the discussion which has taken place on this subejct. I was very much concerned in this discussion. It is a very difficult point, and one of very real importance in connection with the whole structure of the Unemployment Insurance Act. The employers and the trade unions sat down, not once, but on several occasions, with a full desire toSir ALLAN SMITH
30.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the fact that relatives of those fallen in the War cannot visit the grave of the unknown soldier after 3 p.m.; and will he consider the advisability of recommending that the Abbey be kept open till at least 6 p.m. in future?Mr. HIGHAM
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the Leader of the House informed the House that rebate would be made in the event of this Committee deciding against the charges?Mr. HIGHAM
31.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in the event of the Select Committee on Telephone Administration and Charges reporting that the new charges are excessive, a rebate will be made?Mr. HIGHAM
28.  asked the Prime Minister if it is the intention of the Government to introduce the Fisheries Bill this Session; and, if so, can he give the date he will issue it to the public?Major ENTWISTLE
29.  asked the Prime Minister if he is aware that British trawlers are working at a loss owing to the price of coal, ice, and labour; and if he will consider the advisability of reducing the price of coal to the fishing industry, in view of the importance of the continued existence of the trawling industry to the food supplies of the country?Major ENTWISTLE
27.  asked the Prime Minister if, in view of the fact that the Government have adopted the recommendations of the Select Committee on Pensions relating to the Mercantile Marine and in view of the last paragraph of the Report, he will grant the same; benefits to British fishermen and their dependants who suffered from enemy action during the War?Major ENTWISTLE
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say when the details will be available?Major ENTWISTLE
1258à fortiori: I support the Amendment. I was very surprised to hear the speech of the hon. and gallant Member for Maidstone (Commander Bellairs) alleging as one of the reasons against giving this allowance that you could not trust the parents to use it for the benefit of the child. That is a very unworthy aspersion in any case, and it is not as if there was no other precedent for it. We have one in the case of our War pensions. If a man in the Army has any children there is now under the pensions scheme an allowance for the wife. There was not until the report of the Select Committee, but there always was an allowance for children, and that allowance has been increased to 10s. for the first child and 7s. 6d. for the second. Here we have a very moderate proposal of 2s. 6d. per child. If you can trust the payment of a pension of 10s. a week on behalf of a child, 1258à fortioriMajor ENTWISTLE
: Although the appeal tribunal does not come under the Ministry of Pensions at all, will not the decision as to the number of such tribunals be guided largely by the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman?Major ENTWISTLE
: I am sorry that we passed that by. I understood that the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Member for Derby was to take its place. It is too late to move it now, but it may be moved on Report.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: That will be the time to discuss it.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN (Sir E. Cornwall)
130113001299: I did not desire to intervene in this Debate, for I know there are many Members here much more qualified to take part in it. But I have listened carefully, and one thing more than anything else has impressed me. as the Debate has progressed, and that is that, whether the amount of benefit be 18s. or 48s., it would be infinitely better to provide work. I am the representative of one of those constituencies in which, unfortunately, unemployment cannot be regarded as a passing phase to be bridged over, more or less inadequately, by schemes of benefit. Unemployment to the great mass of the people engaged in the industry has come, I am afraid, absolutely for good. The Cornish tin mines have closed once and for all. The industry has been killed by the high price of coal necessary for the mines on the other side of the Bristol Channel. In my own constituency there are 1,500 families who will never get into work again. The younger men have gone abroad. The older men cannot move, the Cornishmen find it very
130113001299Mr. ACLAND
12.  asked the Minister of Pensions whether the Ministry has any authority to require the officers who are patients at Grangethorpe Hospital, Manchester, to fill in forms with regard to their receipt or non-receipt of salaries, wages, or workmen's compensation, as a condition precedent to the payment to them of additional retired pay; and, if not, whether he will take steps to withdraw a memorandum, of the 8th February issued to that effect from the Ministry's office in Chadwick Street, S.W., and to direct payment of all arrears due to the officers in question?Lieut.-Colonel HURST
: The right hon. Gentleman said "apart from other considerations." May I ask what other considerations?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: What are the other considerations?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Would it not be competent for the Committee itself, under the terms of reference read out by the Attorney General, to make any recommendation it liked with regard to the rebate; and is not the question as to whether it would be possible or not a matter for the Committee?Mr. BETTERTON
: Might I, as a member of the Joint Committee, point out that the nomination of these Ministers is in the hands of the Governor, but we were repeatedly assured that the Governor would be responsible to the Secretary of State. That is quite independent of the methods that may be used by the Assembly for removing such Ministers. The original appointment of the Ministers is in the hands of the Governor, and the Governor is responsible to the Secretary of State, who is answerable to this House.Sir H. CRAIK
: On the point of Order. May I say, with great respect, that the question raised was not in regard to any criticism of the action of the Minister, who is now responsible to the Assembly in India. A question was raised with regard to the action of the Governor, who is subject to the Secretary of State. The question had relation, not to the action of the Minister, but solely to the action of the Governor in appointing the Minister; and we contend that the Governor, in so doing, was responsible to the Secretary of State, and, through him, to this House.Sir H. CRAIK
: Will you accept it?Sir FORTESCUE FLANNERY
: The House would readily vote to my right hon. Friend any deficiency that might arise.Sir F. FLANNERY
: Article 6 of the Royal Warrant of 2nd July, 1920, provides that the retired pay of an officer under treatment may be raised to the maximum if the officer is deemed unable in consequence of the treatment to provide for his own support and that of his family. If the officer continues, under his contract of service, to draw full salary or wages from his employer his ability to support himself and his family is not affected by treatment and the forms are issued to obtain the necessary information on this point.Mr. MACPHERSON
: I am informed that two extra courts are now sitting and that two more will begin sitting next Monday. The question of still further increasing the number of courts is now under the consideration of the Lord Chancellor.Mr. MACPHERSON
: Yes. No Ministry employs more ex-service men.Mr. MACPHERSON
1107: The papers in this matter have only been received from the War Office during the last week. The circumstances of the accident suggest, I regret to say, that the officer may be ineligible for pension under the Royal Warrant, but further inquiry as to the
1107Mr. MACPHERSON
: I am obliged to my hon. Friend for giving me the opportunity of correcting, this statement, which completely misrepresents the actual facts. There are, in the regional office of the Ministry at Manchester, 112 women, of whom only 14 are engaged upon clerical work. At the same time, there are 925 men employed, of whom 897 are ex-service men. Of this latter number 407 were disabled in the War.Mr. MACPHERSON
: The form M.P.M.S.D. 29, to which my hon. and gallant Friend refers, is now under revision, and consideration is being given to the difficulty stated in this questionMr. MACPHERSON
: I think that there has been no increase.Mr. MACPHERSON
: I am not aware that claims to pension on the ground of tuberculosis are unsympathetically considered. If the tuberculosis develops within a short period of discharge the disablement, is generally admitted to be either attributable to or aggravated by service, and even where the disease does not develop until after a considerable period the circumstances of the man's military service, and of its effect on his health, are carefully examined. If the Ministry are unable to accept his claim the man is advised of his right of appeal to an independent tribunal.Mr. MACPHERSON
: The number of temporary disablement pensions granted by the Ministry which have terminated otherwise than by the death of the pensioner is approximately 100,000.Mr. MACPHERSON
: The Pension Appeal Tribunal is independent of the Ministry of Pensions, and I have no control over its proceedings. I am informed by the tribunal that, in the case mentioned in this question, a specialist's report was obtained and considered in conjunction with other relevant evidence, this procedure being in accordance with their statutory regulations. In reply to the last part of the question, I may inform my hon. and gallant Friend that the decisions of the tribunal are declared by the War Pensions (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1919, to be final.Mr. MACPHERSON
: Not at all. I think that the tribunal does very good work in this way, that if there is any element of doubt the case is sent to it that the doubt may be removed.Mr. MACPHERSON
: No. I have no control over the appeal tribunal, I am sorry to say.Mr. MACPHERSON
: That is so, and I hope it may be possible, in consultation with the Lord Chancellor, to increase the number of these courts.Mr. MACPHERSON
: I am aware of that, but from the questions that are asked in this House and the answers, given ex-service men should realise the position.Mr. MACPHERSON
: I will do my level best.Mr. MACPHERSON
: Yes. My hon. and gallant Friend knows that I have no control over the appeal tribunal, but I will make it my duty to approach the Lord Chancellor to see whether he cannot find more courts, because I am very much afraid that there may be an increase in the next month in the number of cases awaiting trial.Mr. MACPHERSON
: Most certainly I will look into this or any other case where there is any feeling of injustice.Mr. MACPHERSON
: I am sorry. I have not dealt with those subsidiary points because I dealt with the main point, which was that this case was finally decided by an independent tribunal; but I will look more closely into the points mentioned.Mr. MACPHERSON
1110: This man was originally granted a final weekly allowance under Article 7 of the Royal Warrant in
1110Mr. MACPHERSON
: I am considering the further appeal which has been made by the hon. Member in this case, and will communicate with him as early as possible.Mr. MACPHERSON
: I am not aware of the issue of any such circular. Membership of ex-service organisations is enjoyed by a large proportion of the male staff of the Ministry and is not in any way discouraged.The MINISTER of PENSIONS (Mr. Macpherson)
: Eight hundred thousand.Mr. MARRIOTT
: How is it no decision has been come to, if the forms have been sent out?Mr. PENNEFATHER
: Am I to understand that the situation as to unemployment in Ireland would be greatly relieved if these 150 local bodies complied with the conditions laid down by the Government?Mr. PENNEFATHER
61. 1126 asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland how many of the 124,000 persons wholly or partially unemployed in Ireland are drawing unemployment benefit or out-of-work donation, and what the recent average weekly expenditure has been on this account; how many local authorities in Ireland have made application to the Unemployment
1126Mr. PENNEFATHER
48.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he is aware that secondary education in Ireland is in a critical condition; and what steps the Government intend to take in order to tide it over the present difficulty?Mr. LYNN
: My question was, was it a fact that the Governor had appointed to a Ministry in the Punjab a gentleman who had been convicted of rebellion against the Crown; and, as the Governor was appointed on the recommendation of the Prime Minister, I thought that that was a question which might be asked in this House.Sir W. DAVISON
: The question that I asked the Minister was, was it a fact, as stated, that this man was a convicted rebel, and that he held jurisdiction over a largo number of Europeans? The statement appeared in the Press that he was a convicted rebel, and I wanted to know for information, whether it was so or not. To that you replied that it did not seem to be a matter for this Parliament. May I now ask whether I was entitled to have the information for which I asked, without any reference to criticising the action of anyone?Viscount CURZON
Is it not a matter for this House to know whether a man responsible for the Government of India, who has been appointed to high office under the Crown, is a convicted rebel? I submit that we are entitled to that information.: I desire to ask you, Sir, a question with regard to the ruling given yesterday on a question in reference to India. I asked a question with reference to a certain man in India, and whether certain statements made about him were correct. You replied that it did not seem to be a matter for Parliament, but one for the Legislative Council. The hon. Member for South Kensington (Sir W. Davison) then asked:
Is it not a matter for this House to know whether a man responsible for the Government of India, who has been appointed to high office under the Crown, is a convicted rebel? I submit that we are entitled to that information.Viscount CURZON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say definitely, yes or no, whether any payments will be made under the scheme before the House has had a chance of discussing it?Captain Viscount CURZON
26.  asked the Prime Minister whether any steps have been taken or will be taken by His Majesty's Government to approach the Governments of America and Japan with a view to arriving at a definite understanding on the subject of limitation of armaments?Captain Viscount CURZON
: May I ask whether in future it will be competent for an hon. Member, wishing to move the Adjournment of the House when it is not possible to do so, to use this ruling as a precedent?Earl WINTERTON
: What is the rent of these premises?Colonel NEWMAN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman effect any reduction in London on account of that?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: I suppose these premises are absolutely freehold—there is no ground rent to be paid on them?Colonel NEWMAN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman give us any indication as to the saving which is likely to be effected by the expenditure of this rather unnecessary amount?Colonel LAMBERT WARD
: Is it not a fact that there is a staff already engaged in research on this very subject in the Ministry of Health?Captain TUDOR-REES
: Are these premises freehold, or is rent and taxes being paid for them?Colonel NEWMAN
: Quite a stiff premium.Colonel NEWMAN
1335"Maintenance and Repairs. Reductions effected in the amount of work carried out have been absorbed by the increased cost of wages and material."13341333: Any criticism which I may make on these Estimates will not be made with any intention of deprecating the value of the
1335"Maintenance and Repairs. Reductions effected in the amount of work carried out have been absorbed by the increased cost of wages and material."13341333Lieut.-Commander WILLIAMS
13371336: My long experience in this House has convinced me that procedure by Committee of Supply on Supplementary Estimates is not satisfactory. It is not an effective Committee. This afternoon is an example of what I mean. There are various items in our Supplementary Estimates. I think that most of them ought to have been included in last year's Budget. In my judgment all Supplementary Estimates are wrong. They ought to be anticipated by Government Departments and included in the Budget. If not, they upset the Chancellor's calculations. Of course, there may be exceptions where it cannot be foreseen what the expenditure may be, but generally speaking I think that Supplementary Estimates ought not to be
13371336Sir SAMUEL ROBERTS
1345: The position which the Labour party has taken up on these Estimates is the same position that it takes with regard to all expenditure. We believe that these Estimates today either prove bad budgeting or reckless expenditure. If the right hon. Gentleman could have shown today that there were circumstances which had arisen since the Estimates were first made that could not have been foreseen at that time, then the House generally would have appreciated the position, but, as a
1345Mr. THOMAS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say who holds the lease of these premises, and are you not paying rent for them?Colonel NEWMAN
: When does the lease expire?Colonel NEWMAN
: Has the adaptation of these premises been completed, or is this only a small instalment?Lieut.-Commander WILLIAMS
: Two hands.Mr. THOMAS
: They will not.Mr. THOMAS
: They have got their own.Mr. THOMAS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say which railway company keeps two departments without knowing they are both doing the same thing?Mr. THOMAS
1365: The right hon. Gentleman (Sir A. Mond) has failed to supply the information which alone would justify us in voting this money. We have asked whether or not there is any prospect of going back to pre-war staffing in the various Government offices which are asking for further expenditure of money. I quite agree that the right hon. Gentleman is not responsible, but we are, and unless there is some machinery for telling us what the staff is going to be next year or the year after, it is unreasonable to ask the House of Commons to embark on these costly permanent schemes for the further housing of
1365Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: What is the staff at Hollinwood going to cost?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
1367"No Departmental Committee has inquired into the cost or the necessity of maintaining the present establishment, and we consider that the whole question of the policy of maintaining a large. Government printing establishment, such as is now in being, should form the subject of an inter-Departmental Committee."1366: I am obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for clearing that matter up. There is another matter in connection with Hollinwood which has caused a certain amount of disquiet. The Financial Secretary to the Treasury said that it was going to be used as a store where there would be a very large store of material. We have burned our fingers sufficiently over these large purchases in the past. I hope that this does not mean that we are going to buy stacks of paper at present prices and hold them on a falling market. Though Hollinwood may not mean, as the Secretary to the Treasury tells us, a fresh development, the printing development does mean a fresh development. During the War for the first time there was a printing staff taken on and it was repeated last year. In the evidence given before the Select Committee on Publications and Debates Reports last year it is stated that during the War they took on this temporary staff of over 1,500 people and
1367"No Departmental Committee has inquired into the cost or the necessity of maintaining the present establishment, and we consider that the whole question of the policy of maintaining a large. Government printing establishment, such as is now in being, should form the subject of an inter-Departmental Committee."1366Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: What about Hare Street, Bethnal Green? On page 11 of the Select Committee's Report it is stated that Hare Street employs a staff of 535 people and that the work they do is general bookwork, some of the voters' lists and things like the "Labour Gazette," etc.—all printing—and the figure for those premises is £15,000.Lieut. - Colonel GUINNESS
: As the Chancellor of the Exchequer is endeavouring to meet the criticism of the House of Commons this afternoon, I submit that in Committee we are dealing with definite expenditure, and this Committee can only protest against it this afternoon by voting. That can be only determined in the Lobby.Mr. THOMAS
: If the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been here the whole of the afternoon, he would know fully the sense of the Committee on this question. Cannot he and his colleagues accept the reduction, leaving it to him and the Financial Secretary to the Treasury to allocate the reduction among the various Votes?Sir S. ROBERTS
: Would it not be possible for the Committee to take a decision on the Vote which has been under discussion all the afternoon? Hon. Members do not wish to be side-tracked. Then the discussion on the right hon. Gentleman's suggestion could be taken on the Motion for the adjournment.Major NALL
: Has the staff been dismissed.Major NALL
: Does this item include the cost of the barricades put up in Downing Street, at the entrance to Whitehall, and so on? In the matter of the safeguarding of public buildings, does it include the cost of the special police around the House of Commons?Lieut.-Commander KENW0RTHY
: That is what I mean by the special police.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Why do we want it?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY

Prices as well?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
:Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: About £50,000.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: May I ask the right hon. Gentleman—Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say what these buildings are that are being evacuated?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Is it not a fact that the Hollinwood factory is near Manchester? The right hon. Gentleman has told us about these buildings in London, but surely it is not very economical to take things from buildings in London, and send them to Manchester?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: May we not have a little latitude in discussing this question of the Stationery Office, because we have to allude to policy, owing to the very large expenditure, and there is no opportunity of raising the question except on this Vote?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Can the right hon. Gentleman tell us whether the Stationery Office are going to be allowed to go on increasing their printing establishment, which now numbers. 1,700 employes, That is all since the War, and it is costing the country a tremendous amount of money. Can he say whether the Treasury are going to do what the Select Committee ask for in their Report, and that is to have a Departmental Inquiry to fix the limit up to which the Stationery Office should act?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
1326: I am rather in a difficulty in this matter because I am now a member of the Committee set up last year to deal with the Stationery Office. I understand it is allowable for a member to criticise questions on which a Committee has been engaged, provided that the Committee has reported. On the question of the Stationery Office expenditure, the Committee of which I was Chairman last Session did report on the 22nd December last. They went into the discussion of the purchase of new premises for the Stationery Office, and I think I may be able to throw a little light on the question why these buildings have been purchased by the Office of Works. The Committee in question—the Publications and Debates Reports Committee—reported that the Stationery Office was setting up a Government printing establishment. This was a costly matter, and in the words of the Committee the policy of maintaining large printing establishments formed the subject of a departmental inquiry as to the extent of the work to be given to the office and the size of the establishment to be maintained. These points were to be definitely decided by an inter-departmental Committee. That Committee never had before them any evidence about this Hollinwood establishment. It is the first we have heard of this very large ex-
1326Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: With reference to these premises at Hollinwood, may I ask whether no portion of them will be used for a printing establishment as apart from storage? Secondly, is my right hon. Friend aware that Hare Street, Bethnal Green, is one of the printing offices of the Stationery Office, and lastly, as regards Hollinwood, whether it is not a fact that this is not net expenditure? They have to build roads up to the premises, and so on. Can he give us any idea?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
1364: I think, with the Financial Secretary to the Treasury, that there is a good deal to be said for the Office of Works. As Government Departments go, the Office of Works is comparatively well managed. There is one item in the Estimates to which I wish to draw attention, and that is the item of £5,100 for altering the Army Post Office to serve the purposes of the Ministry of Pensions. One of the leaders of one of the official Oppositions rather slurred over this item on the ground that it has been voted already; but on this item it is competent to raise the question of the occupation of Regent's Park. We ought to have an assurance from the right hon. Gentleman that at the earliest possible moment Government encroachment in all the parks, Regent's Park in particular, shall come to an end. Hon. Members are familiar with the Regent's Park. Reference has been made to the unsightly buildings there, and certainly there is a very good case to be made out for the amenities of the park, but there is a better case in respect to the health of the population. To hundreds of thousands of people in Kentish Town and Camden Town, Regent's Park is the one lung and breathing space, and every square foot that is taken from Regent's Park and utilised for any other purpose
1364Major BARNETT
: Are we to assume when de-control takes place that the Department of the Ministry of Mines will be dispensed with?Mr. WATERS0N
1372: I should not intervene in this Debate if I thought the question in this discussion was some detail of the Vote which is before the
1372The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER (Mr. Chamberlain)
: Because not one speaker rose to their support. [HON. MEMBERS: "The hon. Member for Hampstead (Mr. G. Balfour) rose."] My hon. Friend only rose after the Minister of Labour said he would give way to what was the obvious sense of the Committee. So long as the Government were fighting the battle nobody co-operated.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
1374: I do not wish to make accusations against individual Members, or to enter into controversy with them. I speak of what is within the knowledge of the Committee, that, so long as the Government were seeking to protect the taxpayer against this charge, the sense of the Committee in every quarter, as expressed by the speeches, was almost unanimously, if not quite unanimously, against us. It is quite true that, after my right hon. Friend had, in deference to the sense of the Committee, given way, one or two Members expressed regret that they had done so. But I do not wish to revive that. I only put it to the Committee that the intervention of the House is not always in support of the Government when they are trying to save money, and it has been proved by experience that Committees set up by the House to restrict expenditure may end in additions to expenditure. My experience with Estimate Committees in past Parliaments has not been wholly successful. They have not left the tradition of having effected great saving, or having been powerful means of securing economy, and that has led me to hesitate again and again, and to express my hesitation, to adopt the idea of an Estimates Committee under the circumstances. But the circumstances have changed. I think the House itself feels today—I hope it does—more than ever before, that it must husband the resources of the country, and that it must scrutinise expenditure. I want to meet and, if I can, satisfy the feeling of Members who hold that one of their first duties at the present time is to control expenditure, and be satisfied that they get the opportunities they desire to secure more effective control over expenditure, and so bring their influence to bear in the direction of economy. That will have two results. I hope it may assist the Government in making economies. I think it will also assist the
1374Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I am a little puzzled then—Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Will my right hon. Friend be good enough to repeat exactly what it is he does want in addition to the safeguards or instruments already provided?Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Is that what this Committee now desires? I see no difficulty about granting such a Committee. I would make no difficulty about substituting such a Committee for the Committee on National Expenditure, for, obviously, you do not want two. I should make no difficulty in accepting the proposal if that is what the House wants and what will satisfy hon, Members.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
1376: I am really trying to serve the convenience of the Committee. I find myself in great difficulty because I have felt cold shivers down my back lest you, Mr. Whitley, might be rising to tell me I am going beyond the limits of what is in order. There seems to be underlying this Debate not so much a criticism of any particular item as the criticism that there is a lack of power on the part of the House of Commons to exercise its authority. I was trying to meet that point in order that the Committee and the Government might co-operate to secure that object. I think it is quite clear that the suggestion put forward by the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Banbury) does not satisfy all the critics of the Government who have taken part in this Debate. I would suggest to the Committee that I should not promise now what we should have, or state its exact scope and form, because that is not a matter of common consent. I suggest that the Government should set up a Committee comparable in its character to that which dealt at the end of last Session with the precautions to be taken to watch over private Bills and money Bills, to consider what form this Committee should take and how it could be made most effective. If that meets the, general approval of hon. Members I will consult different sections of the House as to the terms of reference and instead of moving the reappointment of the National Expenditure Committee I would move for a Committee of this kind, which would in itself be in some form a Committee on Estimates.1376Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I have had a pretty long experience of the House, and I do not think that I have ever been present when a more unexpected intervention was made by a Minister of the Crown. It is an impossibility, as you, Sir, have indicated, to discuss across the Table such a proposal as the Chancellor of the Exchequer has made. He has not been with us all the time. Had he been, I am sure that he would agree that underlying the discussion today has been, to our minds, the obvious extravagance of the Government in this particular Department. Here is an opportunity which the House of Commons has for control, and, if it allows the opportunity to exercise control over this one particular thing to go by, owing to the very adroit intervention of the right hon. Gentleman, then in the eyes of the public it will certainly abrogate one of its principal functions, which is to do a bit of straight business when it gets the chance. The suggestion of my right hon. Friend for dealing with the Committee is one which ought to be debated on the Floor of the House, and not by five or six selected Members sitting upstairs and talking about what they think is good for the House of Commons. It ought to be discussed here. I am glad that he has gone a good way to meet a proposal which I, with my right hon. Friend (Sir F. Banbury) and others, have been constantly pressing upon the Government for the past two years. I suggest to theSir D. MACLEAN
sub silentio: I have no intention whatever to offer any opposition to this Vote, but rise to suggest that if it goes through now the Government should be content with it and should not proceed with the next Vote which is for a very large amount, though I do not think as it stands it is a particularly contentious one. But having so large an amount as £350,000 I do not think it ought to be passed almost sub silentioSir D. MACLEAN
: It shows a wider range of miscalculation.Sir D. MACLEAN
prima facie13251324: I quite admit the justice of your ruling, and I will confine my arguments more particularly, while at the same time bringing in to some extent the question of policy, because of this new development which is taking place in the country as distinct from headquarters in London. I understand that my right hon. Friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury represents the Stationery Office, and I would ask him when he intervenes in this Debate to tell us why, in view of the passionate desire which I am sure he shares for economy in every possible direction, and the diminution for the need of a Stationery Office, this large expenditure of £185,000 for setting up a branch office in Manchester is now before the Committee? If when he comes to reply he can deal with that question, and tell me what reason the Department can give for this need having arisen—and it must have been an urgent case, it must have been an urgent and unforeseen contingency—I shall be glad to know why that urgency was not foreseen in the original Estimates.prima facie13251324Sir D. MACLEAN
1332: Is it not in order for my right hon. Friend to tell the Committee on a vote of these dimensions whether he has come to the conclusion that there is any likelihood of diminution in the activities of the Stationery Office? More than once he has checked himself on the point of Order by saying that he could not go into that question of policy. It is really that question of policy which underlies the whole Debate. If you would permit my right hon. Friend to elaborate that side of the question, we should have
1332Sir D. MACLEAN
1322: Well, we shall have an explanation. I say that that sum ought to be saved, and it can be saved if my right hon. Friend addresses his mind to it. I am pretty sure that unless he makes out a very strong case that will be the view of the Committee. I would
1322Sir D. MACLEAN
13211320: I beg to move to reduce the Vote by £100,000.13211320Sir DONALD MACLEAN
: That means not only the cost of the premises, but the cost of the staff there.Sir D. MACLEAN
: As the Treasury will answer for this Vote, could not the right hon. Gentleman now, while he is speaking, ask someone to inform the Treasury that their representatives are required here?Sir D. MACLEAN
: I see the Financial Secretary to the Treasury at the end of the Treasury Bench; I hope he will take a more prominent place.Sir F. BANBURY
: Who is in the building now?Sir F. BANBURY
: What is the rate of interest?Sir F. BANBURY
1341: Yes, I thought they were. That proves that it was not necessary in those days to have research experiments going on to see if they could make them last for more than 10 years. Then I come to the item: "Purchase of
1341Sir F. BANBURY
1340485,000"Sum now required
485,000"Sum now required315,000Add, Supplementary Estimate (H.C.148)
315,000Add, Supplementary Estimate (H.C.148)4,523,300"Total original net Estimate, 1920–21, for public buildings, Great Britain
4,523,300"Total original net Estimate, 1920–21, for public buildings, Great Britain
485,000"Sum now required
485,000"Sum now required315,000Add, Supplementary Estimate (H.C.148)
315,000Add, Supplementary Estimate (H.C.148)4,523,300"Total original net Estimate, 1920–21, for public buildings, Great Britain
4,523,300"Total original net Estimate, 1920–21, for public buildings, Great Britain13391338: I should like to endorse what my hon. Friend the Member for the Ecclesall Divisions of Sheffield (Sir S. Roberts) has just said with regard to the Estimates Committee. Somewhere about 1910, I think, an Estimates Committee was appointed, and that Committee sat until the War broke out. Then, in 1915, Mr. Gulland, who acted as Chief Whip, came to me and suggested that, if the Committee desired it, the Estimates Committee should be set up again. I said, "What is the use of setting us up when there are no Estimates?" because, as this Committee knows, in 1915 there were no Estimates, everything being done on a Vote of Credit. Therefore, the Estimates Committee was not set up again. Then there came the Select Committee on National Expenditure, which, when it was first set up, was presided over by Sir Herbert Samuel. Under his chairmanship that Committee made a very strong report to this House, suggesting that the Estimates Committee should be set up again. They suggested, in fact, that there should be two Committees, because it was perfectly evident during the time the first Estimates Committee was in existence that it had not time thoroughly to go into all the work. Therefore, the Select Committee on National Expenditure recommended two Estimates Committees, consisting of 15 members each, and recommended the appointment of an official of the House, to occupy the, same position as the Comptroller and Auditor-General, to assist them. As far as my memory goes, Sir Herbert Samuel made that recommendation in two separate Sessions. Then came the General Election, and Sir Herbert Samuel was not returned, and I became Chairman of the Select Committee on National Expenditure. I made the same recommendation, but the Government has hitherto ignored it. My hon. Friend now says he hopes something may be done in that direction with the Select Committee on National Expenditure. I am not sure whether or not our terms of reference ought to be ex-
1340485,000"Sum now required
485,000"Sum now required315,000Add, Supplementary Estimate (H.C.148)
315,000Add, Supplementary Estimate (H.C.148)4,523,300"Total original net Estimate, 1920–21, for public buildings, Great Britain
4,523,300"Total original net Estimate, 1920–21, for public buildings, Great Britain
485,000"Sum now required
485,000"Sum now required315,000Add, Supplementary Estimate (H.C.148)
315,000Add, Supplementary Estimate (H.C.148)4,523,300"Total original net Estimate, 1920–21, for public buildings, Great Britain
4,523,300"Total original net Estimate, 1920–21, for public buildings, Great Britain13391338Sir F. BANBURY
: It was recommended by the National Expenditure Committee, both in the time of the previous Chairman and when I was Chairman, that the Estimates Committee which was in existence in the years 1912–13–14 should again be set up, with the addition that it should have the right to have an officer of the House of Commons in the same position as the Comptroller and Auditor-General, with power to investigate into the expenditure of Departments and bring the result of those investigations to the notice of the Committee. I do not know whether I have made that clear?Sir F. BANBURY
: That has always been our proposal.Sir F. BANBURY
: This is rather important, if I may interrupt. May I say I have always protested against such a Committee having power to deal with questions of policy, because that takes responsibility off the Government? We always have protested against that idea. We do not want power to deal with policy.Sir F. BANBURY
: Really, I must interrupt the right hon. Gentleman. I rose at the earliest possible moment when it was clear to the Committee that the Government were giving way. Up to that moment a large number of Members had not engaged in the Debate having no knowledge that the Government were going to give way, and refrained from speaking so as not to prolong the Debate.Mr. G. BALFOUR
1359: The right hon. Gentleman has made a very lengthy explanation, but he has not added much to our information. I wish he would bring the business methods of Brunner, Mond amp; Company into the Government. I am certain that in his great research in which he has been so successful—and I congratulate him and his firm—they never had two departments doing the same thing. Really, we ought to get business aptitude into the Government. I am not really making the point needlessly or factiously. Really the Government ought to co-ordinate their information. It is not enough for the right hon. Gentleman to say, "I do not know what the Ministry of Health is doing. I believe they have appointed some sort of a Committee." It is not business. I ask the right hon. Gentleman to see his colleague, the Minister of Health, and ask him whether his own Research Department cannot do the work for him. But speaking upon the general question, I warn the Govern-
1359Mr. LAMBERT
: That is the trouble. There is really no co-ordination between all these Government Departments, and consequently we get extravagance. I have not the smallest doubt that there is great warfare going on, with fixed bayonets, so to speak, between the right hon. Gentleman's Department and the Ministry of Health Department. I would ask him, do they exchange information?Mr. LAMBERT
: Why have the two?Mr. LAMBERT
: My right hon. Friend the First Commissioner of Works has the sympathy of the whole Committee. He is the whipping boy. All his colleagues ought to be here to hold his hand.Mr. LAMBERT
1357: I am not so sure. I should like to make a comparison with my right hon. Friend's Estimates before the War. The Estimates for the year, as far as I can make out, were presented for £12,173,000. Since then, there have been two Supplementary Estimates for £800,000, making a total of £13,000,000 for the Office of Works. I have looked up the Appropriation Account for 1913–14, and the actual amount spent was, not £13,000,000, but £3,620,000. Why cannot we get back to something like pre-War figures? We have got to do it at some time. People have a sort of notion that we are going on with this orgy of expenditure, but we cannot do it; it is impossible. Therefore, I suggest that the Cabinet, or whoever may be the proper authority, should apply the principle of rationing, and should say to the Office of Works, "You may have double what you spent pre-War." That would give my right hon. Friend £7,000,000, which is a good deal of money. There are many of us who cannot be accused of wishing to
1357Mr. LAMBERT
1356: Yes, one on each side. I am very sorry for him. Outside the Government, in his own business, he is really a splendid business man, but
1356Mr. LAMBERT
: Why did you let it go through?Mr. KILEY
134413431342: The Committee find themselves in somewhat of a difficulty in coming to a decision on the Stationery Vote
134413431342Mr. KILEY
: The right hon. Gentleman has given the Committee a number of places which it is proposed to evacuate. What about the other buildings which will not be evacuated, and which the Stationery Office are now occupying? Is it the intention to retain them for all time?Mr. KILEY
: I am afraid that that question would involve the possibility of discussion on every single Department of the State. We must confine ourselves to the responsibilities of the Office of Works. I think the Financial Secretary dealt with everything that was peculiarly germane to this Vote. The question has been asked whether this may not involve a new departure in the way of Government printing. So far that would be quite right, but I understood that the explanation given had satisfied the hon. Member who raised the point.The CHAIRMAN
: I feel bound to intervene at this stage. It is always a difficult matter, as hon. Members who have been some time in the House will recollect, to differentiate on this Vote between the policy of other Departments and the duty of the Office of Works. I have already allowed many references to some extent to policy, but it is not possible to criticise the Estimates of the various Departments on this Vote. The standard case put to me was one where it was attempted to discuss the policy of the Foreign Office and the Colonial Office under a Vote for telegrams. Perhaps hon. Members will bear that fact in mind if I give them the utmost liberty for extracting information as to the necessity for these buildings.The CHAIRMAN
1323: The latter point does not appeal to me, because, if the Vote for the Stationery Office were not asked for on the main Estimates, it might have been. With regard to the other joint, I quite agree that the Committee is
1323The CHAIRMAN
: I think it is necessary for me to say a word on this subject. This is the first day during the present Session which has been spent on Supplementary Estimates, and I think it my duty to make a departure from the usual procedure and to say a word in regard to increasing the effectiveness of hon. Members in examining the Estimates. The intervention we have just had has been most useful, and as Chairman of Ways and Means, having responsibilities with regard to the matter, I would suggest that five or six Members of the House confer with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and probably some means might be devised of following the lead of the Chancellor of the Exchequer without taking away from the authority of the whole House as Committee of Supply. With the assent of the Committee I propose to allow a little further discussion.The CHAIRMAN
: Would it not be possible to defer this expenditure during these times?Sir J. REMNANT
: Would it not be better to do away with them altogether?Sir J. REMNANT
: Would it not be necessary in the first instance to have clearly defined what the powers of Committee and officer should be? It would be impossible now to consent to a proposal of that kind until we know precisely what are the powers and duties suggested.Mr. J. MURRAY MACDONALD
: My right hon. Friend has been called out on important business.Mr. N. MACLEAN
: I did not interrupt my hon. and gallant Friend while he was speaking, but I tried earlier in the Debate to explain Hare Street. Its principal work is the printing of the Parliamentary Debates, which must be printed in London, owing to the short time which is allowed in which the work can be done.Mr. BALDWIN
: I must correct my hon. and gallant Friend. I specifically stated that there would be a reduction of £10,000 on the staff in London.Mr. BALDWIN
: I said in regard to Hollinwood that so far as I could see at present we should have a reduction of 10 per cent, in the Estimate. I explained that we should have the advantage of having all the staff at Hollinwood in one building instead of a number of separate ones.Mr. BALDWIN
133113301329: If my hon. and gallant Friend will allow me to proceed, I think I shall be able to show him why, in my opinion, it is not economical to defer it. It is quite obvious that during the War there was no other means of getting the largely increased amount of room that was required than by getting what premises we could where we could, often by invoking the Defence of the Realm Regulations. It became obvious, however, to the Stationery Office, that, with the increased quantity of material for distribution, there was a great waste of money involved in maintaining London as the sole distributing centre. The North of England is, naturally, a vast recipient for the necessary papers that have to be issued, especially, of course, for National Health Insurance Cards, and, in the near future, for unemployment cards, and for the various publications of the Ministry of Labour in particular. In the circumstances, it was decided to try, as an experiment, storage in Manchester, as a convenient centre for the North of England, for parts of Scotland, and for Ireland. The immediate advantages of that were more than one. In the first place, a considerable amount of transport was saved. It is impossible to give figures for that, but I think hon. Members will see it. It jumps to the eye. There was another great advantage. The Stationery Office had been in the past in the hands of printers in the South of England, because the printers in the North of England were unable to enter into competition owing to the cost of sending goods from their printing works In the North to London, and therefore it opened to the successive efforts of fresh tenderers a great deal of the work which could be distributed in the North. That in itself was a good thing. It gave us a very necessary check on prices.133113301329Mr. BALDWIN
13281327: I am very pleased to respond to the challenge of my
13281327The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Baldwin)
: You, Sir, have given the answer which I should have given. My right hon. Friend must remember that the Stationery Office is the servant of all the Government Departments, and through them the servant of this House. When I am asked to say whether the activities of the Stationery Office are to increase, I ask, "Are you going to pass such legislation as will mean an increase in the work of the Stationery Office?" There is no question, in regard to the matters which we have been discussing, of any fresh policy being involved or any fresh work being done except in so far as it may be involved in the distribution of such literature and cards as may be imposed upon the Stationery Office by Government Departments.Mr. BALDWIN
: To taka the last point first. As far as I am aware at present— I cannot pledge myself to these figures, because I was not aware my hon. and gallant Friend was going to raise the point—but I think that a sum not exceeding £50,000 will be all that is required for Hollinwood and London. It is not the policy of the Stationery Office to develop further printing. I cannot go into the reasons that induced us to do the printing at Harrow, but with regard to the works in Hare Street, I would remind my hon. and gallant Friend that we have given up the other printing works in London— Dugdale Street and Farringdon Road. Hare Street now is the only works in London except the small departmental press at the Foreign Office and work done at the Meteorological Office. Printing has been done, and must continue to be done, in London. That is where all the urgent work is done, such as the printing of the Parliamentary Debates.Mr. BALDWIN
: I cannot answer that question now, because I have not the knowledge. A conclusion has not been reached on that matter, and it is a question that I should have to consider before I reply.Mr. BALDWIN
1371: The hon. Member is quite unconsciously misleading the Committee. The Supplementary Estimate for these warehouses has nothing whatever to do with printing. The whole of the contents of these warehouses is printed by outside contractors. It may
1371Mr. BALDWIN
1377: Might I suggest, with all due deference to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that my arguments and the arguments of most of
1377Sir C. WARNER
13701369: I do not want to delay this Debate, for I should like to see it closed as quickly as possible.
13701369Sir COURTENAY WARNER
de minimis,135513541353: The right hon. Gentleman has made out something of a case in his reply to the attitude adopted officially by the Labour party. It is quite clearly impossible, on many of these items, for the Commissioner of Works to get an estimate beforehand of what other Government Departments are going to demand. In criticising the Estimates this afternoon, and in supporting the reduction, I am not actuated by any malevolent feelings towards, the Commissioner of Works. One realises the way in which other Departments put their burdens on to the First Commissioner. They do not come down to this House, when the matter is debated, in order to explain to the Committee why it is their Departments are making the demands. We must make an honourable exception this afternoon in the case of the Ministry of Health. Both the Minister and the Parliamentary Secretary have been here, but the Ministers for Food and Education —and especially the latter, whose new house in Old Queen Street forms one of the larger items in this Supplementary Estimate—have not had a single repre-
de minimis,135513541353Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Does it include the guarding of the Palace of Westminster?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: I have not got these details. I do not think the special police of Westminster are under my Department. They are under the police, if not the Home Office. I am not sure about the barricades, whether they come under my Department or not. In these matters we have effected considerable economy. I think it will be more convenient if I deal with the other items after the discussion.Sir A. MOND
: Six per cent, on £425,000. There are between £4,000 and £5,000 legal charges. The other items on this Vote are largely, in fact mainly, due to the rise in wages and materials which have increased the amount of the Vote beyond the anticipation when the main Vote and the last Supplementary Vote were submitted to Committee. The rise in the cost of labour and material and for maintenance and repairs during the financial year has been something between 35 and 40 per cent, on the original Estimates. The difference is £300,000. Owing to every effort to economise and to curtail work that was not absolutely essential we have effected very considerable saving. It is satisfactory to be able to effect economies of that character. As regards rents, insurance, etc., the excess asked for is due to the transfer to my Department of the premises of the Ministry of Food. The Committee will be glad to hear that these offices have-now been closed.Sir A. MOND
: I hope so. This item accounts for £17,000. In regard to Item D (police, caretakers, etc.—increased cost of safeguarding public business) we have been endeavouring to effect economies. The reduction has not proceeded so quickly as was anticipated, and the position today is, and with the organisation of Sinn Fein, I feel myself compelled really to stop the policy which I was anxious to pursue in order to prevent the possibility of Government premises being destroyed by reason of their not being adequately protected.Sir A. MOND
: They are still standing.Sir A. MOND
: In answer to my Noble Friend (Earl Winterton), those are not all pre-War premises. A certain number of them were requisitioned premises acquired during the War.Sir A. MOND
: I can find out, but I am not quite sure. I am not responsible for the policy of the Stationery Office. The Treasury is responsible.Sir A. MOND
: I have no doubt that on that part of the case the Treasury will be able to give a very good explanation, but we are really dealing here with the question of buildings, and I want to make one point quite clear. We anticipate a reduction in rent of £7,270 in carrying through this scheme, but that of course is not a complete statement of the case. Assuming for the sake of argument that this accommodation is required by the Stationery Office, I must point out that some of these premises, being requisitioned, cannot be retained by the State, and therefore it is apparently compulsory to acquire additional premises as far as I am concerned. Further, if these premises had to be taken at a peace-time rent instead of under requisition conditions, I have very little doubt that the sum would be very considerably increased. It must be a good deal more economical for the staff of any authority to do all their work in one well-equipped modern place, than to have the staff and equipment scattered over a dozen different premises.Sir A. MOND
: I was just coming to Hollinwood. The proposal is to keep Manchester as a centre of its own. During the War, the Stationery Office established a branch headquarters in Manchester, and found it a very satisfactory centre for stores, for supply and distribution in the North of England and Scotland, instead of getting everything from London.Sir A. MOND
: I cannot say off-hand. It is being occupied by one of the Government Departments, and an economy has been effected by getting them into more central premises. It may be occupied by one of the remnants of the Disposal Board. The next item, £5,100, is for the alteration and improving of the old Army Post Office buildings in Regent's Park, which are now occupied by a staff of 4,000 of the Ministry of Pensions. We had expected that this work would have been finished in the last financial year, but additional work was done in order that a larger staff might be put into the building. The next item, £4,800, is in connection with the regional headquarters of the Ministry of Pensions and has been made necessary owing to increase of staff. With regard to the lease of Victory House, Kingsway, I should explain that it was required for the expansion of the Public Trustee's Department. It was absolutely necessary to enable the Public Trustee to carry out his additional work. The expenditure on this has been taken into account in the recent revision of the charges of the Trustee, and I have no doubt that that item will be covered by the additional fees to be charged. We are acting in that matter in an entirely executive capacity, and that is why it comes on this Vote.Sir A. MOND
: In presenting these Estimates, it will be for the convenience of the Committee if I explain shortly some of the main items, and the reason why they are introduced now. The largest amount falls under Sub-head A "New works, alterations, additions, and purchases." If hon. Members will look through the details which make up the total of £311,000 under this sub-head, they will see that with one or two exceptions the amounts are small. The first item, £3,425, is in connection with the reinstatement of the Ministry of Agriculture in buildings which were vacated by the Ministry of Munitions. It is an item for cleaning and redecorating which were absolutely necessary. It was impossible to know when this, change would take place. The next item, £14,675, the purchase of 24, Old Queen Street, S.W., relates to premises which were held on a temporary tenancy. The premises were offered for sale and are now occupied by the clerks of the Board of Education. This transaction was carried out over a year ago, and it is owing to delay in legal formalities that the purchase price has not been paid until now. The next item, £4,550, is again an adaptation of premises. They were premises held by the Road Board, and when that Board was absorbed by the Ministry of Transport the lease was automatically taken over by my Department, and £4,000 was paid to the Road Board for their interest in the lease. The rent under the lease was £150 per annum.The FIRST COMMISSIONER of WORKS (Sir A. Mond)
: I have here the list of buildings. The rents are as follows: £950, £650, £140, £1,950, £505, £1,000, £1,375, and £700, giving a total of £7,270.Sir A. MOND
1313: It is at the rate of 4s. 6d. a foot for the upper floor, and 12s. 6d. a foot for the down floors. The total rent is £13,800 a year. As I said, this will be covered by the revised fees of the Public Trustee. The next item, £22,150, I would like the House to couple with Item No. 38, £185,000, because they are both items in connection with the Stationery Office. My Department is not responsible for the policy of the Stationery Office, but we are responsible for providing accommodation to the best possible advantage and with the greatest economy that we can achieve. The Old Ford Works, for which I am asking a sum in these Estimates of £22,150 out of a total Estimate of £160,000, is a factory of modern type and recent construction; the acreage is 2½ and the floor space 3 acres. The building is utilised for the production
1313Sir A. MOND
: Prices, of course, become an element when you ascertain the suitability or non-suitability of different materials under different circumstances But I can assure my hon. and gallant Friend that very important work is being achieved on these lines.Sir A. MOND
: I think we want very much more information than we have at the present time with regard to the very important question of all forms of building material. There has been no subject so important that has been so little studied, and a great deal of money has been spent in using materials for houses in a very inefficient manner, at some considerable expense to the community, and any work that can be done by competent people in studying questions such as concrete construction, strain, and temperature are of a very vital character.Sir A. MOND
: Certainly they are freehold. I think that deals with really what I may call the large items in these Estimates. The other items are of a small character, and come in with alterations and adaptations. Changes of different Government offices carry with them, as a rule, necessarily, a certain amount of expenditure in re-decoration and adaptation. Item 41 is a small building which has been fitted up for technical research work. It has been done by my technical officers, and is of a very interesting and an important character. It is research on building material and various kinds of work of that character.Sir A. MOND
1315: I am not in a position to answer that myself, as I have already pointed out, but I have no doubt a considerable reduction must have been effected since the War. During the War in Manchester we had to provide for the Stationery Office a considerable number of buildings, most of which were requisitioned, if not all of them. Their total rents amounted to £5,286 per annum.1315Sir A. MOND
1318: The other item I want to say a word about is Sub-head II. (Purchase of Freehold Site in Bloomsbury for the erection of public buildings; original estimate £435,000; revised estimate £455,000.) I would point out that the purchase was sanctioned in principle by the Committee on the Main Estimates and passed last Session, so that the only point with which I have to deal is the £30,000 required to meet interest on purchase money and stamp duty on conveyance. I am not going into the policy or argue the matter of the purchase of this freehold site. My Department have been acting solely in an executive capacity. The policy, I suppose, could be raised on
1318Sir A. MOND
: They are leasehold, and the lease cost £4,200. The rent was reserved under the lease until 1934 at £250 per annum.Sir A. MOND
: I am not aware that there is a staff engaged in this particular work at the Ministry of Health. Possibly there is, but there is room for this work, and the people who are doing research work in my Department are doing very good work. After all, the amount is not a very large one. I assure the Committee that the money has not been uselessly spent.Sir A. MOND
1317: I do not agree that it is unnecessary. If I thought it unnecessary, it would not exist. I cannot say what saving is likely to be effected. That is one of the questions asked about research work. If successful, it may result in the saving of millions of pounds, but if un-
1317Sir A. MOND
: At any rate I have endeavoured to cover all the points, and if any further information be required, I shall be happy to give it.Sir A. MOND
1352: I would like the Committee to understand that this is not a new establishment and that the work is mainly being done on supplies and stores, although a certain amount of interesting homework is being accomplished. I was asked some questions about Bloomsbury. As far as I can see, this will be the final figure as far as the site is concerned. The Stamp Duty is included in the figure of £4,500 which I gave for Stamp Duty and legal charges. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the City of London raised the question of maintenance. The chief items of maintenance with which we have had to deal are bricks, slates, tiles, and paint, and, although reductions are beginning to take place, there has been no reductions during the year to which I am referring. These items were framed in November and December originally, and there has been a considerable rise in prices since that day. Therefore, over the year there will be a considerable increase, something like 25 per cent, on the original Estimate. I was asked a question about the barriers in Downing Street. They come into the item of maintenance. I do not know how much they actually cost, but it cannot amount to very much in money. It was considered very necessary. [HON. MEMBERS: "NO!"] Well I am carrying out the instructions of people who are responsible for the safety of the public, and it must be for them to judge whether they are necessary or not.1352Sir A. MOND
1351: I have not gone into the figure myself. I want to say a word or two about the testing station. I ought to point out that this is not a separate establishment. It is part of the ordinary establishment and carries on not merely a certain amount of theoretical work, but also very good practical work. We have to test all kinds of electrical stores of which we buy large quantities, lamps, radiators, cables, and general engineering. These things are supplied to us under contract. It is essential to keep a check and they are dealt with at this testing station. There is nothing new about it. It is merely an extension of size. We have always kept a careful check on materials and stores, and it has paid us and the taxpayer to do so. This item is only necessary because the premises have become too small for the work, and we have had to take larger premises in order to do the work efficiently. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the City of London (Sir F. Banbury) spoke of my visit to Egypt and asked if I had been to see the Pyramids. I have seen them, and they are a fine example of building. I can imagine the amount of research work necessary before anyone would undertake that work. It must have lasted a great many years. The method employed in lifting the stones was one of the most ingenious the world has ever seen. That, however, is getting rather away from the subject. This testing work is very important, because all kinds of new methods in
1351Sir A. MOND
: This is only an instalment, and I understand that further expenditure will have to be incurred, but I cannot say what it will amount to.Sir A. MOND
: The right hon. Gentleman made a somewhat severe attack on the manner in which these Estimates have been framed, and he was speaking, as I understand it, on behalf of the Labour party. He attacks the Estimates on the ground of extravagance. At the same time he objects to de-control, which means the keeping up of a large establishment and a large number of expensive premises. The Department is very largely involved in the question of control or de-control. Still I do not want to raise that as a side issue, but I confess I am a little surprised that of the hon. Members who have spoken nearly every one who has attacked me on the ground of efficiency has not gone into the question as to whether or not I was justified in the Vote I have brought forward today.Sir A. M0ND
1346: I think the time is opportune when I may make some reply to a number of speeches which have been made. [HON. MEMBERS: "There are more to come."] In the first place let me refute
1346Sir A. M0ND
1348: I cannot understand this kind of sanctity as between Estimates and Supplementary Estimates. No one except a Government Department is ever supposed to undertake the task that we are asked to perform. A Government Department has to try to make out to the best of its ability what is going to happen during the next twelve months. Other things come along, and so knock that Estimate out. Take this Estimate we are discussing, the purchase of premises at Hollinwood. I am asking for £311,000 for new works, alterations, additions and purchases. Of that amount £185,000 is for the Hollinwood purchase. But when the
1348Sir A. MOND
1347: I do not think we can assume one thing or another in regard to that. Let me, however, deal for a moment with the Vote that I am taking to-day, Supplementary Estimates for £485,000, which, it is said, proves one of two things, either that my Estimates last year were hopelessly inadequate and carelessly drawn, or knowing that they would be large I got the House of Commons to pass the smaller portion first. No Minister, however, would be foolish enough to adopt a course of that kind. No Department desires Supplementary Estimates. It is better and easier to get one set of Estimates than two. Hon. Members do not appreciate the difficulties that arise in the preparation of Estimates. So far as nay Department is concerned the Estimates are prepared in November for the next twelve months. My Department caters for every other Department of State in the way of premises and accommodation and a hundred and one other things. Probably in November or December we
1347Sir A. M0ND
: That is not quite as easy as it sounds As regards this particular building for the Disposal Board, I believe that body is about completing its labours.Sir A. MOND
1349: Why did we let it come in? We had the chance of making what was considered a very profitable purchase. Had we left it over till the next financial year, the probability is that the United States Government would have sold this aircraft factory, so we had to decide to buy or not to buy the premises which have produced this Supplementary Estimate. If the transaction was good, as I maintain it was—and the Treasury thought it was, and so did the people who were investigating it—could anybody suggest a more unbusinesslike procedure than to leave it over and run the risk of missing it merely because of a matter of form? No business man in the country would let such an opportunity pass, or if he did, would not be accounted much of a business man. A Department like mine has to purchase property when the property is available and when the purchase can be made. How can I know what property is coming into the market, or when or where it will come? Almost the whole of this £311,000 falls entirely under these circumstances. Take the question of the Board of Education and the purchase of premises. There occurred an opportunity of acquiring these premises, and we had to decide either to buy or let the opportunity go. We decided to acquire them, and how could we possibly have known eight months ago that these premises were coming into the market? The same argument applies to quite a number of these cases. Take the case of the £30,000 for the purchase of a freehold site in Bloomsbury. That matter has arisen because the legal documents were not completed when it was expected they would have been, and how could I tell in November or December, 1920; whether or not the solicitor would have these documents completed by a certain date?1349Sir A. MOND
1350: I have not got that on my notes, but I will find out. What I was going to point out was that the Disposal Board may continue for some considerable time in some shape or other, because it has many important matters to deal with. So far as these premises are concerned, when they become vacant I have other use for them. Hon. Members no doubt can realise in this matter what the position of a Minister is who has to provide accommodation for all these Departments. We are not yet through all the difficulties caused by the War in this respect, but if I cannot obtain the transfer of some staffs, who are now occupying expensive premises, to more reasonably rented premises in the suburbs, surely the Committee, instead of blaming me, ought to support me. Naturally everybody prefers to be at
1350Sir A. MOND
: They were held by the Road Board and were afterwards absorbed by the Ministry of Transport, and this was really a transfer from one Government body to another.Sir A. MOND
1358: I thought I had made that point clear. The bulk of the work which is done in this testing station is the testing of engineering materials, electric lamps, cables, and other things which my Department uses. The Ministry of
1358Sir A. MOND
: I am sure they do; they are on excellent terms.Sir A. MOND
: They are not doing the same thing. I am afraid—Sir A. MOND
13631362: The First Commissioner of Works made an extraordinary defence of the principle of submitting Supplementary Estimates and in not taking great care that the original Estimates should be accurate. He asked: "What is the particular advantage or disadvantage of having Supplementary Estimates? Why should one be too scrupulous in having the original Estimates accurate?" One reason why the Government might be induced not to make their original Estimates large enough to cover their expenditure is that when they introduce their Budget they
13631362Major ENTWISTLE
: I thought the right hon. Gentleman had got up merely to give an explanation to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lambert).The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I must ask hon. Gentlemen to allow the right hon. Gentleman to continue his speech.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN (Sir E. Cornwall)
1368: There are two points of criticism I should like to make, in the light of some local knowledge, on this amazing purchase of a factory at Hollinwood, near Oldham, for £185,000 There are two principles which, I should imagine, any Government Department would act upon in making a purchase in the interests of the country, assuming that the purchase ought to be made, which is a very large assumption, because it certainly has not been proved that we need any great storage place for stationery and insurance cards. The first principle is, undoubtedly, that you ought to buy in the cheapest market. That is a principle which I should have thought would appeal to the right hon. Gentleman (Sir A. Mond) in view of his early association with free trade propaganda. Where will you get storage accommodation most cheaply? In some rural area, far from the great centres of population. You are not going to find it, in the period of the cotton boom, within a very few miles of
1368Lieut.-Colonel HURST
13611360: I shall not imitate the prolixity of the First Commissioner of Works or digress, like him, into the history of the Pharaohs. I have never seen in the course of my Parliamentary experience a Minister so largely obstructing his own Estimates. He began by taking up the question of Supplementary Estimates, and he laid down certain rules with regard to them. I have had 20 years' experience of framing Estimates. It is occasionally absolutely necessary to have Supplementary Estimates, but under what conditions? I prepared the Estimates for education. A Supplementary Estimate might be necessary then, because the attendance at schools might increase, and conditions utterly out of my power to conceive might come about. Almost all Estimates of that sort must necessarily be subject to contingencies, and those contingencies render Supplementary Estimates necessary, but we all have great sympathy with the proposal put forward by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lambert). Our Estimates should be measured by a rationing process, and if there is one Department to which that
13611360Sir H. CRAIK
indicated dissent. indicated dissent.Mr. MACPHERSON
: Yes.The MINISTER of PENSIONS (Mr. Macpherson)
: The speech of the First Commissioner of Works filled me, not only with amazement, but with alarm, and if my right hon. Friend opposite goes to a Division, I will certainly vote with him. The First Commissioner of Works, in his usual jocular frame of mind, rather hinted that he intended to start the building of pyramids here. The Government are building pyramids, but not pyramids on which we can look with pleasure; they are pyramids which we carry on our backs in the shape of taxes. Instead of building new premises, it would be much better to reduce the Departments. I will refer especially to the Stationery Department, because that is a business about which I know something. I say without hesitation that these Departments cannot compete with outside firms. It costs at least 50 per cent, more to produce things in a Government Department than it would cost to produce them in a private concern. Why, therefore, go on adding this increase to the burden we already have to bear?Mr. LYNN
: I have no desire to misrepresent the situation. It is sufficiently bad already, without the supporters of the Government trying to make it worse, but on general principles I say that as far as the Government is dealing with the question, which I know something about, they cannot possibly produce material, or even store it, so cheaply as it can be done by private firms. My right hon. Friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury said printing is being done by private firms. Then why not let them do the storing as well? They could do it cheaper than he can, but really the whole question is one of general principle. The biggest fights in connection with our Constitution have taken place over whether this House should have control of the finances of the country, and, speaking as one who knows something of the Constitution, who has seen it practically working for the last two years, I say, and I say it deliberately, that the whole question of the House of Commons having control of finance is a huge camouflage. Really, the House of Commons has no control over it. It is its own fault, and for that reason I am going to vote this afternoon for my right hon. Friend (Sir Donald Maclean).Mr. LYNN
: The Chancellor of the Exchequer has invited the Committee to co-operate with him in saving money. These Estimates show very clearly that the Government are not alive to the urgent necessity for economy. [HON. MEMBERS: "Divide!"] I shall not sit down until I have said that which I am going to say. I represent a constituency, and my constituents have as much right to be heard as those of anyone else. I am going to show how practically the whole of this Estimate can be saved. This is an Estimate of £485,000, and one of the items, No. 12, provides for an additional expenditure of £30,000 in connection with the purchase of a site for public buildings. The total amount is £455,000. That is a site which is not required. It could be sold, and the money could be used, to provide the total expenditure of this Estimate. I think that is where, if the Government were fully alive to the urgent need for economy, this Estimate could be saved. I suggest that this site, which is not wanted by anyone, or by the University of London, could be sold, and money thus provided to meet the Estimate.Sir W. DAVISON
: Why did they give way?Earl WINTERTON
: Are these premises which are going to be evacuated all pre-War premises? That is to say, is it his proposal to carry on greater business under the Stationery Office than before the War?Earl WINTERTON
: Are any of them pre-War premises?Earl WINTERTON
2.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether there are any powers under which the use of the word "bank" in the name of a company or firm can be restricted or regulated; and, if so, whether any exercise of those powers is contemplated?Lieut.-Commander HILTON YOUNG
: The only restriction of the use of the word "bank" in the name of a company or firm is that contained in Section 2 of the Moneylenders Act, 1911, whereby it is enacted that no person shall be registered as a moneylender under any name including the word "bank," or under any name implying that he carries on banking business.The PRESIDENT of the BOARD of TRADE (Sir Robert Home)
3.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether commercial motor vehicles of foreign manufacture are admitted to this country free of import duty; and whether, having regard to the very serious depression in the home motor industry and the resultant unemployment, steps will be taken to make the class of vehicle referred to subject to at least the same duty as foreign motor cars.Sir T. POLSON
5.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether financial assistance was given to the British potash industry during the War; if so, on what grounds; and whether any such assistance is being afforded to the industry to-day?Mr. DOYLE
12 and 14.  asked the President of the Board of Trade (1) what industries were found during the War to require State support; in each case what support was given;Major BARNES
: May I ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, before he introduces the Key Industries Bill, he will publish a memorandum which will give the House such information on this subject as will enable them to apply to the key industries the various tests which the-Prime Minister laid down a year ago?Major BARNES
: Does the right hon. Gentleman's answer mean that he has not himself got the information?Major BARNES
13.  asked the President of the Board of Trade what industries are now in such a financial position as to require for their maintenance the assistance of the Government?Major BARNES
: Does the list to which the right hon. Gentleman has referred contain a complete number of industries which require financial assistance?Major BARNES
16.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether he is aware that the private consumer as well as the manufacturer and the workman has a right to be represented on the boards which it is his reported intention of setting up to advise him as to the extent of the protection needed against unfair foreign competition in certain industries; and will he see that, the private consumer has his fair share of representation and that this representation does not consist of Government officials?Colonel NEWMAN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman answer the last part of my question, namely, that the representation of the private consumer does not consist of Government officials?Colonel NEWMAN
41.  asked the Prime Minister when the Bill to safeguard key industries and to regulate imports will be introduced?Mr. TERRELL
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the Leader of the House said that this Bill would not be introduced before Easter?Major BARNES
: I am making inquiries of the local committee who arrange for supplies.Mr. BRIDGEM'AN
17.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether he is aware of reports that are being circulated with regard to the imminence of a coal strike which is to be the precursor of a general strike of organised labour with a view to attempted revolution and overthrow of the Constitution; and whether there is a sufficient stock of coal above ground to satisfy private and commercial needs even should a general strike of the coal-mining industry be entered on?Colonel NEWMAN
: Will the Ministry of Mines see to it that the general public is kept informed of the course of events?Colonel NEWMAN
19.  asked the Secretary for Mines what was the total export of coal to Europe from America, China, and Australia in 1913 and 1920, respectively; and what would have been the additional number of mine workers that would have been employed in this country in 1920 if British coal had not been undercut in the European markets by these foreign importations?Lieut.-Colonel Sir F. HALL
: If this enormous exportation of coal, which is taking place from America to Europe, is continued, will it not have a detrimental effect on British shipping, and will it not mean that there must be a tremendous amount of unemployment, not only with regard to shipbuilders, but also seamen to man these ships?Sir F. HALL
: Then would it not be advisable for the miners' leaders to help the men to increase output rather than act as they have done, which has been detrimental to the coal industry of this country?Sir F. HALL
: Once the Americans have got the trade of Europe into their hands, will it not be very difficult to get it back again?Sir F. HALL
24.  asked the Minister of Transport if he can make any definite statement as to the intention of the railway companies to run special trains at Easter, Whitsuntide, and in the summer holidays; and whether, and to what extent, excursion fares are to be reintroduced?Captain TERRELL
: When may we expect an announcement in connection with the excursion trains for Whitsuntide?Captain TERRELL
: Is it the intention to give facilities for steamer traffic?Dr. MURRAY
60.  asked the Minister of Transport whether the Government have asked the Kent county council to undertake certain arterial road works to relieve unemployment, and have made it a condition of contributing to the cost of the works that the county council shall only engage labour through the labour exchanges, and that the unskilled men shall receive not less than 1s. 11d. an hour; if the county council's rate of pay to their own road staff is 1s. 2d. an hour; and if he will state whether, owing to the imposition of these conditions, the work is held up and the men left unemployed, even if willing to accept 1s. 2d.?Sir F. HALL
59. 1399 asked the Minister of Transport what is the estimated deficiency on the railways which will have to be made good by the Government in respect of the period from the date of the introduction of the increased rates and the handing back of the lines to the companies; and if it is proposed to meet this
1399Sir F. HALL
65.  asked the Minister of Transport whether he has now been able to read all or any of the reports made to the owners of railways by the chairmen of their boards during the past few days; whether, in every case, the chairman has reported that if the subsidy from the taxpayer be withdrawn the properties will be unable to meet even their fixed charges; will he say if he agrees with these considered statements by experts; and will he urge on the Government the necessity for the introduction and First Reading of the Railway Bill without any delay?Colonel NEWMAN
: Has the right hon. Gentleman read the speech of the chairman of the London and South Western Railway Company in which it was stated that if the railway subsidy were withdrawn the companies would not be able to redeem their debenture stock?Colonel NEWMAN
29.  asked the Prime Minister if he can now make any statement respecting any of the decisions which have been reached at the Conference of London on the Treaty of Peace with Turkey?Captain TERRELL
45.  asked the Prime Minister when he will be in a position to make a statement with regard to the results of the Allied Conference now proceeding?Captain TUDOR-REES
: Does that mean that the expenses in respect to Aden hitherto borne by the India taxpayer will be borne now by the British taxpayer?Lieut.-Colonel A. MURRAY
: If the Agreement lapses will the money be returned?Sir J. D. REES
49.  asked the Prime Minister whether he can state the purpose of the visit to Egypt of the Secretary of State for the Colonies; and whether he is to deal with the question of the future government of Egypt?Dr. MURRAY
: Will the Colonial Secretary be permitted to write articles on Egypt in the Sunday Press?Dr. MURRAY
: I do not think this is a matter which can well be discussed in the form of question and answer, but, as I have frequently stated, the Allied Governments are not, except as regards certain minor special transactions, at present paying interest or sinking fund on their debts to this country.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
69.  asked the Undersecretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether 24,000 Assyrian, 14,000 Armenian, and 5,785 Russian refugees are to be maintained by the British taxpayer until they can be provided with some other host, of whether they can now be. informed that present arrangements must cease upon a given date without reference to their existing circumstances?Sir J. D. REES
: Every endeavour is being made to arrange for the termination of the maintenance of these refugees by His Majesty's Government at the end of the financial year, but I regret that I am not in a position to give my hon. Friend the assurance which he desires at the present stage.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Cannot the Government say that on a certain date this shall cease? Why should the British taxpayer be made to exercise a hospitality so fantastically expansive?Sir J. D. REES
: Because of our honourable obligations.Mr. HARMSWORTH
70. 1419 asked the Minister of Agriculture whether his
1419Lieut.-Colonel A. MURRAY
: Can the hon. and gallant Gentleman say why it would be impracticable, and can he further say what is meant by the statement that the Minister of Agriculture, in receiving an agricultural deputation, was only expressing his personal views?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: Is it not true that a definite promise was given by a late Minister of Agriculture on this question?Mr. THOMAS
: Therefore it is not the intention of the Government to give effect to that promise?Mr. THOMAS
71. 1420 asked the Minister of Agriculture whether he is aware that in receiving a deputation on 12th January, with regard to the existing embargo on Canadian store cattle, Lord Lee, in resisting the abolition of the embargo, said that agricultural interests might, in the last resort, have to give way to some higher considera-
1420Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: Can the hon. and gallant Gentleman say what was the higher consideration to which the First Lord of the Admiralty referred?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: I beg to give notice that when the Minister returns I will put this question to him.Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: Can the hon. Gentleman give the name of this firm?Captain TERRELL
: May I ask if these buildings have been tested by the right hon. Gentleman's research office, and can we count on their falling down in ten years?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
: His Majesty's Government have no authoritative information later than 24th December, when it was stated, on Armenian and British authority, that no massacres had occurred and that American relief was continuing. Later news, however, reports from Armenian sources that deportation and murder have occurred, and that the Armenian Government have protested. His Majesty's Government have no information of wholesale massacres.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I am afraid there are different grades of value in the information.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I think that at the moment we have not a representative at Tiflis, but I will inform the Noble Lord to-morrow.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I hope my hon. Friend (Mr. A. Williams) will not think that I meant any discourtesy to him, but there is grave discrepancy sometimes between information from some sources and that which we get officially.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: We shall explore every avenue we can in order to get information.Mr. HARMSWORTH
(by Private Notice) (by Private Notice)Colonel NEWMAN
1426: I know nothing of this deputation except from the question of which the hon. and gallant Gentleman gave me notice for to-morrow. But I could not consent to receive the deputation. I understand the suggestion is that they should discuss with me the disposal of the assets of the bank. That is not a matter within my control. I think that is a matter for the Official Receiver, who, I think, is an officer of the Court. I think I noticed in the newspapers that he had himself made an application to the High Court for direction upon that subject. In any case it is
1426Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: The maximum was 4s. per week.Mr. THOMAS
: Nor the men—Mr. THOMAS
: On a point of Order. I understand this is a Supplementary Estimate. Shall we be in order in dealing with the Colwyn Report on these Estimates? The House will appreciate the importance of the question.Mr. THOMAS
crux14821481: I think that the railway companies may first of all congratulate themselves on having the right hon. Baronet the Member for the City of London (Sir F. Banbury) as their champion, and incidentally I do not believe that they have any cause for complaint in the speech of my right hon. Friend (Sir E. Geddes). While we have had the Government's side and the railway companies' side, and while naturally I am compelled to deal with the situation from the railwaymen's standpoint, I think that every Member of this Committee feels that this matter is not only a question for the Government, for the railway companies, or for the railwaymen, but that we are concerned in doing justice to the general public who, after all, have got to pay. I believe that no one would minimise the importance of railways to
crux14821481Mr. THOMAS
"A signal box man who earned 21s. in 1913 now obtained 134s. 6d. per week, and in another ease a man who earned 17s. a week now received 133s. a week,"1484termini"I should like to draw your further notice to the so-called standardisation of hours of work. There are instances of men in the signal boxes of country stations who do nothing outside their boxes, and even when in them they are not engaged in railway work for a considerable interval, while their colleagues in busy boxes at the great London stations are at work, and hard at work, during the whole time they are on duty with correspondingly greater responsibility, and yet we are not allowed to make any differentiation in the rate of wages in each particular case. Loud cries of 'shame' from the shareholders."1483: I am going to assert this, and I am going to prove what I say, because it is a remarkable fact that when wages were referred to many Members of this House applauded the sentiment that the real cause of the trouble was the abnormal increase in wages. [HON. MEMBERS: "Hear, hear!"] Then I am correct in interpreting that to mean that many Members of the Committee really and honestly believe that the statement made by these chairmen was true? [Some HON. MEMBERS: "Hear, hear!"] I say, as the representative of the men, that if those statements were true I, for one, could not defend the position of the men. But I am going to submit to the House that not only are they not true,
"A signal box man who earned 21s. in 1913 now obtained 134s. 6d. per week, and in another ease a man who earned 17s. a week now received 133s. a week,"1484termini"I should like to draw your further notice to the so-called standardisation of hours of work. There are instances of men in the signal boxes of country stations who do nothing outside their boxes, and even when in them they are not engaged in railway work for a considerable interval, while their colleagues in busy boxes at the great London stations are at work, and hard at work, during the whole time they are on duty with correspondingly greater responsibility, and yet we are not allowed to make any differentiation in the rate of wages in each particular case. Loud cries of 'shame' from the shareholders."1483Mr. THOMAS
: Then it only shows again how the case has been prejudiced in other places. That does not help it; it aggravates it. It only shows, if this is the way these briefs are got up, that there ought to be more attention paid to accuracy. Let me deal with this case. I have to-day looked up the Cambrian conditions, and not only is there no such figure, but it is impossible for any signal man on the Cambrian railway to receive more under all scales than £3 7s. at this moment. That is the maximum—and I am dealing here with the maximum and not the minimum. Compare that statement with the statement to the shareholders, that owing to the Government's action, owing to the wicked trade unions, owing to the pressure on all these innocent railway companies, a signal man in 1913 gets 17s. a week and to-day gets 133s. I challenge any railway director, any railway manager, or the Government to show any scale in existence that bears out any of these statements.Mr. THOMAS
: I do not know what it includes. I say it is simply not true. If that is the explanation, why was not that said?Mr. THOMAS
: Here is a statement made by a railway chairman that a man who got 17s. a week in 1913 is to-day getting 133s.Mr. THOMAS
: The hon. and learned Member probably does not know the procedure, or he would not have asked that question. It is an understood thing that there is no railway interest as railway interest in this House, and we are dealing with a public matter.Mr. THOMAS
14871486: I would point out that this Debate was to have taken place last week. As a matter of fact, I only examined this matter to-day, because, as the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Banbury) said, there was a similarity in the tunes called by various chairmen. I want now to take the next point, which, after all, is very important, and it is with regard to the Wage Board itself. I am sorry the right hon. Baronet said a word against this Board, for this reason. This House of Commons has repeatedly urged labour to accept arbitration, and it has pleaded with the trade unions that, instead of having strikes and all the misery occasioned by strikes, they should trust their case to some independent tribunal. I am within the recollection of Members in all parts of the House when I say that that has been a general policy urged in all quarters of the House. When that was urged on the railwaymen's unions it was a difficult job to get them to accept it, but at all events, we got them to agree to the setting up of an independent tribunal. What was this tribunal composed of? There were four railway general managers, four representatives of the men's unions, one nominated by the Federation of British Industries, one nominated by the Chambers of Commerce, one nominated by the Co-operative Union as representing the consuming
14871486Mr. THOMAS
"The cost of compiling statistics of the Ministry of Transport was £33,000. I think I may say that in all probability the cost of compiling these statistics, which, in my opinion, for the most part are utterly Useless, for the whole of the railways must amount to something like £500,000 or £600,000.": Yes:
"The cost of compiling statistics of the Ministry of Transport was £33,000. I think I may say that in all probability the cost of compiling these statistics, which, in my opinion, for the most part are utterly Useless, for the whole of the railways must amount to something like £500,000 or £600,000."Mr. THOMAS
: My right hon. Friend still agrees that it is utterly useless. I am going to submit that it is not only not useless, but that there is one thing this House of Commons, if it is going to have some control over the expenditure, must look into, and that is the revelations of these statistics. I will endeavour to show what I have gleaned from these statistics and why I believe the right hon. Baronet does not like these statistics. I can quite understand the reluctance of the railway companies to have some of these statistics looked into. In the first place, let the House observe that the expenditure involved in this matter is £275,000,000 per annum.Mr. THOMAS
1488: No. My point is that here are £275,000,000 of public money that are involved, of which the Government are the guardians, and of which some
1488Mr. THOMAS
: This was last year, and I am dealing with these useless statistics which first showed that there was a surplus every day in the year of 700 engines.Mr. THOMAS
1489: Surplus to the maximum requirements, and they showed that 27 per cent, of the engine power was on given days awaiting repair. Let me examine these useless statistics a little further, because when we went into the train miles—and, naturally, the first thing
1489Mr. THOMAS
1490: I make a qualification, and say, with the exception of the North Eastern. But what I want to develop again is this. These figures show that this was an Easter period. When we examined the Whitsuntide period, we still found a reduction in the total tonnage. When we examined August we also found a reduction. This House had been asking whether the country could have cheap excursions. They asked at Easter, at Whitsuntide and in August whether it was possible to give facilities for people to go to the seaside, and the answer given from the Treasury box repeatedly was that the engine power and the coaches had been gone very carefully into, and it was found impossible to do it. When we examined these figures, we not only found it was not impossible, but I assert here that, as a result of examining these figures, you have got the early announcement this year as to your Easter and Whitsuntide excursions. My right hon. Friend cannot deny it, because, as a matter of fact, the minutes of the Advisory Committee show that when we examined these figures we immediately found that it was not only possible to give facilities to the travelling public, but possible to earn revenue that would not otherwise have been earned. I say that, whether the railways go back to private ownership or not, if this country is to have an efficient transport system it has got to have the most up-to-date data possible. That you can only obtain, not only by having these useless statistics, but by having many more statistics if they are necessary.1490Mr. THOMAS
: Where did the hon. Member who is speaking get his Report?Colonel NEWMAN
: Is it competent for an hon. Member to quote from a Blue Book evidence which is not available to hon. Members in the Vote Office?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: What has all this got to do with the railway agreement, because that money has been spent.Colonel NEWMAN
: Yes, but it is money that has already been spent.Colonel NEWMAN
: Will it not be possible to reply to the hon. Gentleman (Sir H. Mackinder)?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: Does your ruling not mean that it would be quite Impossible for the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Transport to reply to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean)?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: Thirdly, by not having the copy of the evidence before us to which everybody is referring.Mr. WALSH
: I said so.Mr. THOMAS
1528ipse dixitsub-judice1527: Every hon. Member who has followed this discussion will agree that it has been somewhat unsatisfactory, for it has led us nowhere. It was bound to be the case, when the Vote was put down for to-day, that the public interest, and indeed the interest of this House, would centre round the recommendation of the Colwyn Report. You have ruled that it is not possible for us to refer in any detail to that. Report, although remarks in connection with it fell from an hon. Gentleman below the Gangway, but I propose to observe your ruling, and confine my re marks as far as possible to other elements in the Debate. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean) moved a reduction of this Vote, and asked the Minister in charge what was to be the policy of the Government in respect of the recommendation of a certain Committee. If I may do so, I am going to suggest to the Minister what his answer should be, and it is, that the recommendations of that Committee will provide him with the light reading which is necessary to his leisure hours, but in so far as the recommendation proposing to abrogate the agreements that were made between the State and the railway companies at the commencement of the War, that he will not concern himself with the recommendation at all. I was very glad to hear one remark of the hon. Member for Camlachie (Sir Halford Mackinder). He said that it was not his intention, nor was it the intention of those acting with him, to suggest that the agreement made between the Government and the railways should be repudiated. I was glad to hear that statement, because reading certain recommendations for which the hon. Gentleman and his colleagues were responsible, I should certainly not have taken away that impression from them. I hope the right hon Gentleman on the Treasury Bench will take note of the fact that despite the recommendations of the Committee, the hon. Gentleman and his friends have no such intentions in view. I might have quoted from the Report which you have ruled out of order, to show that what indeed the hon. Gentleman wanted to do was to throw the onus
1528ipse dixitsub-judice1527Lieut.-Colonel A. MURRAY
: May I point out that when we were getting to close grips the Chair issued a rule preventing us from going any further?Lieut.-Colonel A. MURRAY
1541ultra vires.15401539ultra vires,15381537: I could not help remembering as the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walsh) was speaking some words which I heard him repeat—"a Daniel come to judgment." I thank him for those words; for it does appear to me that up till the time he spoke this quite important
1541ultra vires.15401539ultra vires,15381537Sir W. BARTON
: Yes.Sir W. BARTON
: What exactly is it that you have put to the Law Officers of the Crown, and in what form?Lieut.-Colonel A. MURRAY
: Oh, yes.Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: Hear, hear!Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
15531552status quo.1551: In a passing word which struck a spark of illumination and threw a flood of light on the Debate, the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Transport raised a wholly new issue which is perhaps, the issue which is most germane to these Supplementary Estimates. He suggested to us that the true issue before us was whether the sum should be met by a Vote, as we are asked to meet it tonight, or by the only alternative, a further rise in rates. As I understand the very illuminating analysis which the Minister of Transport has given to us to-night, removing every carry forward and removing every casual charge, there yet remains the sum which, if my memory serves me aright, is a deficit of £6,000,000, unmet by the new rates. The issue is too large and too wide for me to raise at so advanced a period of the Debate, but I think the opinion should be registered by anybody who holds it that it is an issue which it is idle to continue to postpone, and that if on this occasion we are not making the railways, in the simplest and the most crude language, pay, and if we postpone the hour at which they are going to pay their own expenses and dividends, we are only putting off the evil hour and1 increasing our difficulties. It may be looked upon as a fantastic proposition again to raise railway rates at the present time in order to make both ends meet in the railway balance sheet, but there are propositions more fantastic, and one is to continue the present system of subsidy. It is like a man who has got hold of a wild bull. It is extremely difficult to hold on and it is extremely painful to let go, but the sooner you let go the better, because the longer you hold on the more tired you get and the more infuriated the bull becomes.15531552status quo.1551Lieut.-Commander HILTON YOUNG
1557: A great many Members of this Committee and the Government are indebted to the hon. and gallant Member for Norwich (Lieut.-Commander Hilton Young) for putting before the Committee the fact that by passing this Motion we are not prejudicing the issue between the Government and the railway companies. Unless that is made perfectly clear by the Minister in his reply some of us, at all events, would feel compelled to vote against this sum at present. I think we shall never be able to pass a satisfactory judgment on this question unless we are permitted to have a full Debate upon all the questions affecting the various agreements that have been made. The Rules of Procedure to-day have hampered us extremely in this discussion. The Government owes it to the country that the Report of the Colwyn Committee should be debated in this House. It owes to the House, and the Minister owes it to the Members of this House who sat upon that Committee for some-
1557Major BARNES
"There shall be paid to any person or body of persons whose railroads or plant may be taken possession of in pursuance of this Section out of the moneys to be provided by Parliament, such full compensation for any loss or injury they may have sustained by the exercise of the powers of the Secretary of State under this Section."1558: The right hon. Gentleman cannot confuse the issue by contrasting the claims made under the Agreement of 1914 with the claim the companies are preparing to launch under the Act of 1871. We are asked to find a sum of £21,000,000 for the railways. We are told that the coal strike cost them £8,000,000. Has it cost nothing to anyone else? Why should we pay £8,000,000 to the companies? We are asked to find £2,000,000 for the railways because conditions in Ireland are disturbed. They cost monetary loss to a great many other people. Why are no bills coming in from them? We are asked to find millions because of bad trade. If everybody suffering from from bad trade could send in bills to the Government it would not be £21,000,000, but hundreds of millions that the Minister would be asking for here. Why is it that the railway companies are in this comfortable condition that whatever happens to them they can send in a bill? They say it is "Because we have got an agreement." It seems to me that it is a matter of very considerable importance that this House should know something about this agreement. How is it that they happen to have such a claim as this so as to put them into a very comfortable position? It is an
"There shall be paid to any person or body of persons whose railroads or plant may be taken possession of in pursuance of this Section out of the moneys to be provided by Parliament, such full compensation for any loss or injury they may have sustained by the exercise of the powers of the Secretary of State under this Section."1558Major BARNES
1559: I have no doubt that from the composite statements of the Member for the City of London and myself we shall get at the facts. He has supplemented my knowledge, let me supplement his. He probably is aware that in 1912 arrangements were being made for dealing with such a contingency as might arise, and in 1912 the railway companies were called together, and it was pointed out to them that should an emergency arise their railroads would be taken possession of under the 1871 Act. That Act had two defects. One company might lose traffic and another might gain, and under the Act the Government would be compelled to compensate the company that lost without being able to set off against it the gain of the company that gained. That was the difficulty under the Act, and in 1912 the railway companies
1559Major BARNES
: I submit to you, Sir, that we are asked to find £21,000,000 on a claim under an agreement. I am endeavouring to give the House some information as to how that agreement was arrived at.Major BARNES
"To ascertain the compensation payable, the aggregate net receipts of the railways taken over, during the period for which they are taken over, shall be compared with a similar aggregate for the corresponding period of the previous year. The ascertained efficiency, if any, less any amount of such deficiency which is attributable to causes other than the operation of the Act, shall be the amount of compensation due."1560: It is clear that there are hon. Members who are not very desirous that the House should be in possession of the full facts of the case. I will leave 1912 and come to 31st July, 1914. On that date a memorandum was prepared by the Board of Trade under the Act of 1871 and was submitted to the railway companies. The memorandum read:
"To ascertain the compensation payable, the aggregate net receipts of the railways taken over, during the period for which they are taken over, shall be compared with a similar aggregate for the corresponding period of the previous year. The ascertained efficiency, if any, less any amount of such deficiency which is attributable to causes other than the operation of the Act, shall be the amount of compensation due."1560Major BARNES
: It only shows the difficulty of carrying on this Debate apart from discussion of the whole of the terms of the agreement.Major BARNES
: I accede to your ruling, and am exceedingly sorry to have trespassed upon it in any way. We are to be faced with a further demand in the ensuing year. We have the statement that the Government are now taking a legal opinion upon the whole question, and when they get that they intend to ask what their obligations are; and when that is done they will endeavour to arrive at a settlement. I would ask the Minister of Transport whether he can give the House any assurance that when that legal opinion is obtained, and the Government have made up their minds as to a policy, the House will be given an opportunity of debating it before the Government enters upon a final settlement.Major BARNES
: A week from now?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: I agree with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Peebles, and I think all hon. Members will agree, that, particularly in view of this discussion, we should have a full Debate, and as early as possible, on the Colwyn Report. The Minister of Transport has said that the Government has asked the Law Officers of the Crown for their advice on the legal aspect, and I would suggest that we ought to have their opinion before we have the Debate. Not only should we have the opinion of the Law Officers, but we should have some few days in which to consider it. The Debate should not be rushed upon before we have the Law Officers' opinion, or have had time adequately to consider it.Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: I only want to ask the right hon. Gentleman one question. Seeing that we are going to vote some £40,000,000 for the railways, will he promise me that he will see that the Government will restore the pre-War service on the west coast of Scotland?Dr. MURRAY
rose roseDr. MURRAY
: Is it not a fact that British coal can always compete on favourable terms with American coal, owing to the fact that on arrival American coal is so much dust?Captain C. COOTE
6.  asked the President of the Board of Trade if his attention has been called to any recent infringements, and, if so, by whom, of the Merchandise Marks Act?Captain R. TERRELL
: Has the right hon. Gentleman's attention been called to any recent infringements of the Act, and, if so, what action does he contemplate taking?Captain TERRELL
68.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the South Persia Rifles are to be disbanded; whether the evacuation of all British officers and non-commissioned officers is to be completed by 31st March; and whether all British women and children have been warned to leave South Persia before that date?Colonel Sir C. YATE
: Does that answer cover the reply to my question last Friday?Colonel Sir C. YATE
: Is Aden no longer to be administered by the India Office?Colonel Sir C. YATE
1393: Is there any hope that the Russian Government will recog-
1393Colonel GREIG
: May I ask the Prime Minister himself? What hopes has he of resuming negotiations for the opening up of trade with Russia in the near future?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
31.  asked the Prime Minister whether he has any information that Herr Hugo Stinnes is negotiating with the Russian Government for a concession for exploiting the railway works at Briansk, and has declared his readiness to furnish the works with the requisite capital so that they may eventually turn out 8,000 locomotives and 80,000 wagons per annum; and what progress has now been made with the British trade agreement with Russia?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
39.  asked the Prime Minister whether the action of the Persian Cossacks in overthrowing the Government at Teheran has been assisted or supported in any way by His Majesty's Government; whether these Persian Cossacks have been paid and provisioned by His Majesty's Government; and what is the attitude of His Majesty's Government towards their present action?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Since when?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman give a definite answer as to whether these Persian Cossacks who have overthrown the Government at Teheran have been excited or assisted by us?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Are they not paid, provisioned, and uniformed by us?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Can the hon. Gentleman state whether the South Persia Rifles will be used for political purposes also, as in the case of the North Persia forces, where there was a British officer in command?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: What will be the position of the British representative in the Court? Will he simply be there with a watching brief, and will he, in that case, have to withdraw when the Court sits to consider its verdict, or will he be present the whole time?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
30.  asked the Prime Minister whether he ordered the suspension of Colonel Latimer, commanding "K" Company of the Royal Irish Constabulary, implicated in the burning of Cork City; whether he was suspended only a few hours before the present Session of this House commenced; and why this officer was not brought before a court-martial where he could defend himself?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: May I not have an answer to the first part of the question—whether this Colonel Latimer was suspended only a few hours before the present sitting of the House?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: On a point of Order. The question is on the Paper. If the right hon. Gentleman does not know, let him say so!Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: What is meant by "law and order"?Lieut. Commander KENWORTHY
(by Private Notice) (by Private Notice)Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
(by Private Notice) (by Private Notice)Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
18.  asked the Secretary for Mines whether, at the end of the financial control of the coal industry, it is the intention of the Government to subsidise unprofitable collieries or allow them to lapse?Mr. E. HARMSWORTH
: Is the right hon. Gentleman not aware that there is a provision in the Coal Mines Act that decontrol will not take place until August, and that it is now contemplated to bring in a Bill to shorten that period?Major MORGAN
: Of course it does.Major MORGAN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware, that the fear, if any, is created by the fact of there being a contemplated breach of faith on the part of the Government with regard to the de-control of coal?Major WATTS MORGAN
: I have been asked to reply to this question. The answer is in the negative.1406The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the ADMIRALTY (Colonel Sir James
1406
: Will the right hon. Gentleman explain either now or in the near future in more detail what is meant by Arabia—for instance, what parts will be answered for by the Colonial Office and what by the Foreign Office; his answer did not say?Lord ROBERT CECIL
: Always have been!Lord R. CECIL
: May I ask whether we have not a representative at Tiflis, and whether inquiry has been made of him?Lord R. CECIL
: Will the hon. Gentleman really make some inquiry into this matter? If there are no British representatives there, possibly he could get some foreign Government to inquire of its representative?Lord R. CECIL
: Will not that delay the appointment of the Committee on National Expenditure?Lord R. CECIL
4.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether, whereas this country accepts from Germany anything she sends to us, Germany will not import anything from us that can be made in her country, and even for spare parts for our portable engines and thrashing machines, which in the past have been sold to Germany, it is necessary to apply for a special licence to Berlin?Major MOLSON
9.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether the Central Profiteering Committee is still continuing its investigations into the profits of various trades and industries; what is the total staff employed, and the annual cost of this Department; and whether, in view of existing conditions and the need for economy, he proposes to close down this Department at any early date?Sir KEITH FRASER
23.  asked the Minister of Transport whether he is aware of the feeling in Wales that adequate steps have not been taken to make a recurrence of the railway accident at Abermule impossible; whether he can give an assurance that such apprehensions are unfounded and that all possible precautionary measures have been taken to prevent a recurrence of such a disaster; and what disciplinary steps, if any, have been taken or are proposed to be taken against the railway employés who were responsible for the accident?Sir K. FRASER
74.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Munitions whether the firm of clothing manufacturers who contracted to purchase 577,000 discharged soldiers' suits at 45s. from the Disposal Board was aware that the suits were made to the sizes and scale of dimensions approved by the War Office as being best adapted to War Office requirements; whether the 337,000 suits, part of the contract which the purchaser has not accepted, were made to the War Office sizes and scale of dimensions; if not, why were they accepted by the Department from the manufacturers; and whether the £50,000 deposited by the purchasing firm has been set off in part payment of the suits accepted, or is this amount still held as a deposit?Sir K. FRASER
: Does not that apply in the case of Ireland?Mr. WATERSON
67.  asked the Undersecretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether passports have been refused by the Foreign Office to two Russian experts in rail and motor transport who wished to come to England, and who would be able to make plain to English traders the needs of the Russian transport system; and whether the police Department have any objection to these men?Mr. WATERSON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman consider the advisability of consulting some consumers in the cooperative movement, which has 4,500,000 members?Mr. WATERSON
: I have been asked to reply. I would refer my hon. and gallant Friend to the answer given on the 23rd instant to the hon. Member for Seven oaks, a copy of which I am sending him.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY OF LABOUR (Sir Montague Barlow)
: Does the change imply that these countries are to be considered in future British colonies?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: Does the hon. Gentleman suggest that my information is not correct, when he says that the information is of different values?Mr. WILLIAMS
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that private individuals can get information in much less time than two months from the Caucasus?Mr. WILLIAMS
(by Private Notice) (by Private Notice)Mr. A. WILLIAMS
1548: That I cannot inform the hon. Member. I think it is a matter that probably adjusted itself in later accounts more or less. But the evidence that we have at the moment does not show precisely what was done with it. That leads me to this. What were the items in the account that required Government scrutiny? You cannot have the physical standard of maintenance ascertained as it was in the year 1913. You cannot set back the clock and inspect the whole permanent ways and the whole of the rolling stock of the companies, and therefore you can only have it measured in terms of money—in 1913 terms of money adjusted to present day values. What is one of the things that the Ministry has to do to-day to this agreement? It has to watch as closely as it can, with advisors, not only financial, but engineering, both civil and mechanical, that that, standard is not exceeded. But you are immediately face to face with all manner of difficulties. When you talk of maintenance you cover four separate things. You cover ordinary repairs, which normally would be paid out of revenue, and therefore are paid fully by the State; you cover partial renewals, which may be extremely slight in their character or may approach to complete renewals; you have complete renewals themselves, and you reach the point of
1548Mr. NEAL
1550: My hon. and gallant Friend says "Hear, hear," but it is an extremely difficult problem for any tribunal to settle, and not settle once but to settle in the claims of many companies with different sets of circumstances, until you open up a most refreshing vista of litigation that shall secure that at least a considerable proportion of the profession to which I have the honour to belong will not join the ranks of the unemployed for many years to come. Then when you have got your interpretations in the Court you still have the difficult task of applying those interpretations to the figures, the facts and the state of the repairs, and to all matters of that kind. Is it to be wondered at that my right hon. Friend the Minister, finding himself face to face with a problem of this magnitude and of this complexity, involving as it does many millions of pounds on the one side or the other, and desiring, as I hope every hon. Member of this House will give him credit for desiring, above everything else, to be just, not only to the taxpayer but to the great transport interests of this country, should ask the assistance and advice of a Committee to look into this matter perfectly impartially and to see what was 10 be done under the circumstances?1550Mr. NEAL
"It was brought to the notice of the Railway Executive Committee that the expenditure of many companies in 1915 upon maintenance of way and works and rolling stock considerably exceeded the corresponding expenditure in 1913. In consequence of this all companies whose accounts for 1915 disclosed an increase in their expenditure on abstract A or B (after adjustment for difference in costs) of more than 10 per cent, over the 1913 figures, were invited to meet the Compensation Accounts Committee. Meetings were held with 26 companies."1547"We understand, from the statements you made to us to-day that there is some apprehension on the part of the advisers of the Government that advantage may be taken by some companies of the settlement provisionally come to with the Government as to the basis of compensation under Section 16 of the Regulation of Forces Act, 1871, to spend abnormal sums out of revenue on the maintenance and renewal of their lines and stock. I have to say that while the Executive Committee cannot believe that any company would be capable of acting in such a manner, they have from the first regarded it as an obligation of honour to protect the Government against the possibility of such an event, and they had, before your visit, already taken steps to safeguard the position of the company in this respect."1546: Then the hon. and gallant Gentleman must bear with me if I quite good naturedly and not rudely say it is not one which I think I ought to answer at this moment, as the case is submitted to the Law Officers of the Crown on behalf of the Government. The first question is what is the agreement? May I
"It was brought to the notice of the Railway Executive Committee that the expenditure of many companies in 1915 upon maintenance of way and works and rolling stock considerably exceeded the corresponding expenditure in 1913. In consequence of this all companies whose accounts for 1915 disclosed an increase in their expenditure on abstract A or B (after adjustment for difference in costs) of more than 10 per cent, over the 1913 figures, were invited to meet the Compensation Accounts Committee. Meetings were held with 26 companies."1547"We understand, from the statements you made to us to-day that there is some apprehension on the part of the advisers of the Government that advantage may be taken by some companies of the settlement provisionally come to with the Government as to the basis of compensation under Section 16 of the Regulation of Forces Act, 1871, to spend abnormal sums out of revenue on the maintenance and renewal of their lines and stock. I have to say that while the Executive Committee cannot believe that any company would be capable of acting in such a manner, they have from the first regarded it as an obligation of honour to protect the Government against the possibility of such an event, and they had, before your visit, already taken steps to safeguard the position of the company in this respect."1546Mr. NEAL
: I think the hon. and gallant Gentleman will hardly expect me to answer that question.Mr. NEAL
: The Report has been at the service of all hon. Members as a Command Paper. My right hon. Friend explained how much he regretted to find, when he got here to-day, that the Minutes of Evidence had not been published as a Command Paper. I do not know the reason for that, but I regret extremely that any hon. Member should have had the slightest difficulty in obtaining that volume. I can say that the more cheerfully, because I have spent many weary hours in reading it, and I would like to think that other hon. Members had had the same task imposed upon them. The third question is, what is the agreement? May I point out that that, in its first essence, is a legal question. The documents have been collated with industry by the Minister of Transport from many sources—they were scattered documents which had to be put together almost in a scrap book—and then out of them you had to try to spell the agreement. But the question as to what is the agreement is in its essence a legal question. Upon that matter the Government is taking the usual course of being advised by the Law Officers of the Crown. It is taking that advice in the view of all the documents which have been found, and in view of the fact that at this moment proceedings have been commenced by one railway company against the GovernmentMr. NEAL
: Then I cannot offer the same excuse for him as I did for the hon. Member for Ince. The hon. Gentleman must appreciate that there are vital and important differences between this Estimate and Estimates which usually Ministers have to submit to the House. As a rule the Minister has to submit to the House an Estimate of the expenditure of his own Department, but my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport here has had to submit Estimates, not of his Department, but of 114 controlled railway companies.Mr. NEAL
: I hope that my hon. Friend will allow me to make a reasoned statement, and I am quite sure that when I have finished we shall be at one about this matter. My right hon. Friend has to submit, not Estimates of receipts or of expenditure which he can control; he has to put before the Committee Estimates arising from the net results, not only of the normal working of one of the greatest, if not the greatest, commercial undertaking in the Kingdom, namely, the railways, but he has also to try and foretell what claims they will make upon the Government of an abnormal character.Mr. NEAL
1542: I hope my hon. Friend the Member for Ince (Mr. Walsh) will remain in the Committee for a few minutes, as I want to suggest that if we had had the advantage of his presence at the commencement of this afternoon, we should not have had the opportunity of admiring the intense vigour with which he addressed this Committee a few minutes ago. He is a member of this assembly, for whom we all have the greatest possible esteem and respect, and I am quite sure he will desire to
1542Mr. NEAL
: I think my hon. Friend did not happen to be in his place when my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport explained this matter, or he would not be making these observations now. May I just help him by pointing out that this Supplementary Estimate covers matters which could not have been foreseen as to £8,000,000?The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of TRANSPORT (Mr. Neal)
1543: So far we are agreed. What is the difference? Is it 100 per cent? The accounts out of which these Estimates arise are not, as my hon. Friends would seem to suggest, accounts dealing with £22,000,000 upon which there is an excess of £21,000,000; they are accounts dealing with items, on the one side or the other, totalling to over £600,000,000 in the year, and the divergence in the Estimates is not a divergence of 100 per cent., but one of less than 3½ per cent. So far as it is a divergence of 3½ per cent., that is abundantly covered by three or four items. Under this 1914 agreement, the railway companies are guaranteed,
1543Mr. NEAL
: The figures are shown quite plainly and simply in the monthly returns, in the decrease of the railway companies' receipts. Then there was a loss of £2,000,000 caused by that unfortunate industrial disturbance in Ireland, when the railwaymen declined to carry Government traffic; and there was a loss of £12,000,000 caused by the slump in trade, three months of which comes into this Estimate. Those items more than account for the £21,000,000 for which we are asking to-day. In addition, there is a sum of £4,000,000, not, as my hon. Friend thought, paid out of the Civil Contingencies Fund, but actually recovered from the railway companies in respect of reserves that they have been accumulating. I make no complaint of that.Mr. NEAL
1544: Yes. May I point out just what the position is? Since the Ministry of Transport came into being there have
1544Mr. NEAL
1545: The right hon. Baronet says "Hear, hear," but, with the exception of himself and the hon. Member for Old-ham, I think no one has any doubt why that Committee was set up. It was set up
1545Mr. NEAL
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. As regards the second part, I cannot anticipate future legislation.The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER (Mr. Chamberlain)
38.  asked the Prime Minister whether the discussion of the Milner Report will be taken irrespective of the absence of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, inasmuch as this matter would be more properly dealt with by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs than by the Secretary of State for the Colonies?Mr. SPOOR
1418: Sir Alfred Watson's Committee was appointed in the first instance to consider the proposals of the British Empire Statistical Conference and to ascertain the views of the Home Departments thereon. The Committee, was later instructed to report also on the need for official inquiry into certain defects in official statistics alleged in a
1418Mr. BONAR LAW
: Yes, I see no objection to it.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I said that there would be no Debate upon it.Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
: I am sorry to interrupt my hon. Friend, but I would make an appeal to him for this reason. Unless we get the Committee of ways and Means set up, which must be done before eleven o'clock, we cannot have the Report stage. I would also remind him that we shall not only have an opportunity of discussing this same subject on Report, but that it is necessary to bring in a special Consolidated Fund Bill for it. So that there will be two opportunities for discussion.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I would like very much to give the small promise for which my hon. Friend asks, but it is really not quite reasonable to expect me to give such a promise in connection with a subject of public interest like this.Mr. BONAR LAW
1570: As far as the Government are concerned, we entirely share the view of my right hon. Friend that this is not at all a subject which should be dealt with
1570Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
: It must do that, but I hope this Committee will not take many days in making recommendations. Obviously, you cannot have one Committee without considering to what extent it will affect the other.Mr. BONAR LAW
(Mr. Whitley)1428: As was stated by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer on Friday, we propose immediately to form a small informal Committee to consider the best form of an Estimates Committee such as was sug-
(Mr. Whitley)1428Mr. BONAR LAW
: I have examined the recommendations of the Committee and I think it would be desirable to adopt them. I am having inquiry made as to the steps which it would be necessary to take for that purpose.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Application was made in October last for facilities for two Russian railway experts to join the Russian trade delegation in London. The negotiations for a trade agreement were at that time in suspense, and the necessary authorisation was accordingly withheld. No subsequent application has been received. The Home Office raised no objection on personal grounds.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
: I would ask my hon. and gallant Friend to put that question on the Paper.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: As the reply is rather long, I will, with the hon. Members' permission, circulate it in the OFFICIAL REPORT.Mr. CECIL HARMSWORTH
: That is a purely hypothetical question.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I do not accept the statement of the hon. Member.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: The question of the South Persia Rifles is at the present moment engaging the earnest attention of His Majesty's Government, who hope to arrive at a decision in the very near future. In the meanwhile, it is impossible to return a definite answer to the second part. The answer to the third part of the question is in the negative.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: No, they are not.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I can deny that, and the hon. and gallant Gentleman will find a complete answer to that in my reply.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I should not like to say that.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: That is so.Mr. HARMSWORTH
64. 1401 asked the Minister of Transport whether the railway companies have inspired articles in the Press; if so, what funds they have used for that pur-
1401Mr. IRVING
: That is not a point of Order. The Speaker would have called the right hon. Gentleman to Order.Mr. IRVING
: I hope that it may be possible to introduce it before Easter, so that it may be proceeded with as soon as the House re-assembles.The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
: The purpose of my right hon. Friend's visit to Egypt is to confer with Sir Percy Cox and other officials from Mesopotamia, who are already on their way, about the general policy to be pursued in that country. He will not deal in any way with the question of the future government of Egypt.The PRIME MINISTER
: When a discussion is thought desirable, it would not be prevented by the absence of my right hon. Friend.The PRIME MINISTER
: Probably longer than that, because we shall require an opportunity of conferring with the Egyptian representatives.The PRIME MINISTER
: No, by the Colonial Office.The PRIME MINISTER
: I have no information other than that contained in the newspapers as to the reception of the Milner Mission's Report in Egypt. I hope to announce the policy of His Majesty's Government as soon as the House has had an opportunity of discussing the Egyptian question.The PRIME MINISTER
: I have just consulted the Leader of the House, and he says that he does not think that there will be an opportunity before Easter.The PRIME MINISTER
: This question will be a subject for discussion at the Conference to-morrow, and under the circumstances it is undesirable to answer now.The PRIME MINISTER
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative, but although he accepted technical responsibility for the offence, it was committed entirely without his knowledge. Since then he has been chosen to represent the diocese in which he lives on the Central Board of Finance of the Church of England. As regards the second part of the question, I do not propose to take any action, as the recipient rendered conspicuous public services to the country during the War.The PRIME MINISTER
: The exercise of the prerogative has been vested in the Governor-General of India, on behalf of His Majesty, since 1914, to enable pardons to be granted in India by His Majesty's representative on the spot, and I see no reason for making any change. His Majesty's Government has every confidence in the use of his discretion by the Governor-General.The PRIME MINISTER
: The Government do not consider that the adoption of the suggestion of my hon. Friend is necessary or desirable.The PRIME MINISTER
: No; there are several mandated territories in Africa which the Colonial Office will answer; but we only hold them under Mandate.The PRIME MINISTER
: As a matter of fact, there has been a discussion already on the subject. One was before we separated. There was another on the Address, and there will be a third opportunity on the Estimates—I am not sure which Estimates—probably two, but certainly on one.The PRIME MINISTER
: Yes.The PRIME MINISTER
: That is so.The PRIME MINISTER
: The Hedjaz will come under the Foreign Office, but I think I had better not answer without reference to the Department. There are countries just on the border line.The PRIME MINISTER
1410: The Cabinet has recently decided that the responsibility for administration and policy in Palestine, Mesopotamia, and Aden is to be transferred from the 1st March from the Departments now dealing with those
1410The PRIME MINISTER
: There is no intention of proceeding further with the proposal referred to in the first part of my hon. and gallant Friend's question. The second part therefore does not arise.The PRIME MINISTER
: That is so.The PRIME MINISTER
: I am afraid it is something very different to what commends itself to the hon. and gallant Gentleman.The PRIME MINISTER
: My hon. and gallant Friend is entering into a very elaborate field of inquiry at the present moment. I do not agree with his view of the circumstances. We must take every means at our disposal to enforce the law, and if it is to be stopped, then it must be stopped first of all by the people who assassinate the guardians of the law.The PRIME MINISTER
: The Washington Conventions under Article 405 of the Peace Treaty are themselves in the nature of treaties. Somewhat difficult constitutional questions are involved, and opportunity will arise to discuss them in the Debate for which, as my right hon. Friend the Lord Privy Seal informed the right hon. Member for the Gorbals Division, it is hoped to find time after Easter.The PRIME MINISTER
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the negative, and to the second, in the affirmative.The PRIME MINISTER
: Apparently the hon. Gentleman did not think it necessary to come to the House when this question was discussed. It was discussed for three hours some nine or ten days ago.The PRIME MINISTER
: My hon. Friend can depend that the Governments of the Allies are taking every measure to ascertain the financial position of Germany.The PRIME MINISTER
: I understand that the German Government have now issued emigration licences to the two principal British lines that applied for them. The conditions attached to these licences are at present under examination with a view to its being considered how far they are consistent with Germany's Treaty obligations. I am not aware of any attempt to re-introduce the emigrant control stations in Germany. Any steps in that direction would, in our view, be in direct conflict with the provisions of the Treaty of Versailles.The PRIME MINISTER
: Yes, I think it is.The PRIME MINISTER
: I can add nothing at present to the statements I have recently made on this subject to the House.The PRIME MINISTER
: The Government have decided not to introduce any legislation on this subject and to allow the existing legislation to expire on the date mentioned in the Act.The PRIME MINISTER
: Very full communiqués have been given of the proceedings of the Allied Conference each day, and I am not in a position to make any further statement on the subject at the moment.The PRIME MINISTER
: Will the House have an opportunity of debating this most important change in the administrative offices?Sir D. MACLEAN
1511: Then I shall be very interested to see how hon. Members succeed in replying to the hon. Gentleman. I am not to pay any compliments to the Members who sat on this Committee. That, I understand, I am to reserve for another occasion. How is it possible, after all, for the Members of the Committee to found their judgment on this Estimate—that is the real point—without having some knowledge of what line the Government propose to take? If the Committee is satisfied as to the lines upon which the Government propose to move they will give them £21,000,000, and there must be a later stage in which, not
1511D. MACLEAN
: I should very much like to know how the hon. Member (Sir H. Mackinder) discussed it—whether he discussed it as a Report, or how. I promise that I am going to pass from it. I was only just going to say the Report, as I read it, showed very great care on the part of the members—Sir D. MACLEAN
15101509: I beg to move to reduce the Vote by £1,000,000.15101509Sir D. MACLEAN
: On a point of Order. The hon. Member has just used a word in reference to a letter written by Mr. Runciman. All those letters are in that Report, and is it in Order for him to make reference to that letter in the Report without giving an opportunity to hon. Members who take an entirely different view of supplying a direct answer to him?Sir D. MACLEAN
1569: We are indebted to the right hon. Gentleman for the statement he has just made. He has told us almost all we wanted to know at the present moment. I hope, referring to his concluding sentences, that this question will be kept free from any party spirit or undue acrimony. It is far too serious a question to be bandied about and to become the sport of party or personal grievance, and, as far as those who work with me are concerned, I can give an assurance that we will endeavour to deal with this great question in a broad spirit. The public, I am sure, will be viewing
1569Sir D. MACLEAN
{by Private Notice) {by Private Notice)Sir D. MACLEAN
: May I ask the Leader of the House whether, in view of the delay in production of Government Bills, the Government have considered the Report of the Committee which was set up to inquire into the increase of rates occasioned by legislation, and if so what, action they propose to take?Sir D. MACLEAN
: The North Eastern Company had them.Mr. TURTON
: That was given in evidence before the Railway Rates Advisory Committee.Mr. TURTON
: How much is the capital on which the interest is paid?Sir E. CARSON
: I only received notice of this question a very few minutes ago, and I have not had time to consult with the Chief Commissioner, but I may tell the hon. Member that I have already arranged to discuss the whole position with the Commissioner this afternoon or to-morrow morning.Mr. SHORTT
: The prisoner on the 19th February lodged notice of application for leave to appeal against his conviction and the date provisionally fixed for his execution was accordingly cancelled. I have received representations from the authorities referred to, but for the present the matter rests with the Court of Criminal Appeal.The SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Mr. Shortt)
: All action must be deferred, as the matter is before the Court of Criminal Appeal.Mr. SHORTT
: On a point of Order. As the whole of the agreement covers each particular item under the Report in the Estimates, is it not in order to discuss the whole of the agreement?Major HAYWARD
40. 1405 asked the Prime Minister, if the proposed indemnity from Germany to this country is to be paid for in goods; and, if so, can he say, for the information of British manufacturers whose products may be competed with by the introduction of large quantities
1405Mr. BRIANT
: Can the right hon. Gentleman tell us when he can give us some definite information, as obviously it is a question affecting the industries of the country?Mr. BRIANT
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say if there are any local profiteering committees still meeting?Mr. BRIANT
: May I ask the Minister of Transport whether I ought not to have used the word "assisting" instead of "acting," and whether, as a matter of fact, Mr. Andrews, who is neither solicitor nor honorary solicitor to the Railway Association, is not, as a matter of fact, assisting the Minister of Transport at the present moment?Sir F. BANBURY
: May I ask whether that is not a matter for a court of law?Sir F. BANBURY
: Or under the Colwyn Committee.Sir F. BANBURY
: Hear, hear!Sir F. BANBURY
: The question is, what is the agreement?Sir F. BANBURY
1555: May I point out that the Committee heard only one side of the case? They heard only witnesses from the Ministry of Transport, and practically nobody else. Since the beginning of the War coal went up. The railway com-
1555Sir F. BANBURY
: The hon. Gentleman seems to be totally oblivious to the fact that in 1914 the Government came to the railway companies and said they intended to take them over. The railway companies did not go to the Government to obtain an agreement. They would have preferred to remain without an agreement and managed their own affairs. They would have made a great deal more out of it. The Government then came to an agreement in addition to the Act of 1871, and that agreement is still in force, unless it is to be treated as a scrap of paper.Sir F. BANBURY
: The hon. Gentleman must have learned very little on the Colwyn Committee. Does he know that the agreement was to take all the receipts of the railway companies and pay all the expenditure? The claim will be for any damage, and that cannot be advanced until control is ended.Sir F. BANBURY
: Why did not you hear both sides?Sir F. BANBURY
: Certainly not.Sir F. BANBURY
: We did not make a claim.Sir F. BANBURY
"to which must be added the £124,000 arrears paid applicable to the year 1919.": May I call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to these words in the paragraph to which he was alluding:
"to which must be added the £124,000 arrears paid applicable to the year 1919."Sir F. BANBURY
: It is the beginning of it.Sir F. BANBURY
"The (Railway) Executive Committee have done a work of which they are justly proud, and for which the country should be grateful."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 17th March, 1919; col. 1770; Vol. 113.]"Although the Railway Executive Committee has exercised its functions under the Board of Trade during the War, I would like to take this opportunity of saying how very much I have admired the effective and unostentatious way in which it has carried out its duties. I think that it has a record of which every individual may be justly proud, and for which the country owes a very great debt of gratitude. The times through which we have passed have been very difficult for railway companies, and their record of War service, although depleted of operating, maintenance and renewal staff, and with many of their principal officers away on War work, is pre-eminent in the history of the railways of all belligerents. To this splendid result directors, management and staff have contributed as one to an extent which can only be fully appreciated by those who have some inner knowledge of the difficulties and of the achievements attained. I feel sure that in solving the railway problem, and the wider transportation problem which the conditions of War had imposed, the Government will continue to receive the same willing co-operation from the railways as a whole."1478: That figure of £6,000,000 does not correspond with the £20,000,000 which, in answer to my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Rawlinson), the right hon. Gentleman said he thought might be saved. With regard to the Wages Board which was set up, I have only to say that it was set up by the Government and not by the companies. It had not on it a single person put there by the companies. It had 13 members; four were supposed to represent the men, four represented the traders and users of the railways, one was an independent person, and the remaining four—not a very large proportion—were railway managers, and they were not put there by the railway companies, which expressly said that they did not represent the railway companies. Of those four, one was against the Report and the
"The (Railway) Executive Committee have done a work of which they are justly proud, and for which the country should be grateful."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 17th March, 1919; col. 1770; Vol. 113.]"Although the Railway Executive Committee has exercised its functions under the Board of Trade during the War, I would like to take this opportunity of saying how very much I have admired the effective and unostentatious way in which it has carried out its duties. I think that it has a record of which every individual may be justly proud, and for which the country owes a very great debt of gratitude. The times through which we have passed have been very difficult for railway companies, and their record of War service, although depleted of operating, maintenance and renewal staff, and with many of their principal officers away on War work, is pre-eminent in the history of the railways of all belligerents. To this splendid result directors, management and staff have contributed as one to an extent which can only be fully appreciated by those who have some inner knowledge of the difficulties and of the achievements attained. I feel sure that in solving the railway problem, and the wider transportation problem which the conditions of War had imposed, the Government will continue to receive the same willing co-operation from the railways as a whole."1478Sir F. BANBURY
1480"No, I think we have to find out whether these agreements are really in the interests of the State. If we say that these agreements are not in the interest of the State, then we have to consider whether in the interest of the State these agreements should be carried out.": When interrupted, I was going to read one question, number 10. It is extraordinary. It is impossible to find out who asked it and who answered it. I have sat on many Committees, but I have never known the name of both the person who asks the question and the person who answered it not be put in. It must have been Sir George Beharrell, of the Ministry of Transport, or the Chairman or one of the members of the Committee, but which I cannot say. The statement is:
1480"No, I think we have to find out whether these agreements are really in the interests of the State. If we say that these agreements are not in the interest of the State, then we have to consider whether in the interest of the State these agreements should be carried out."Sir F. BANBURY
1476"With reference to the available net income for the past year, which amounted to £2,480,541 and made it possible to pay the dividends which I just enumerated, there is a point which I wish particularly to impress upon you, and that is that £1,652,939, or two-thirds of the net income, was paid to us by the Government as representing additional interest on capital account and deficiency in net receipts of the railway for the past year. If this sum had not been received the real net income of the company would have amounted to only £827,602, to which must be added £124,000 paid as arrears of pay applicable to the year 1919. These two items added together would only amount to about one-third of the sum required to meet the dividends declared to-day. This must be taken merely as an illustration of the financial effect based on the figures for 1920; and it must be borne in mind that the ratio of expenditure to receipts may be materially altered when the Government hands the railways back to the companies. This position does not apply to the Great Northern Railway alone, but will in a greater or lesser degree affect all railway companies in the country. For the whole of the controlled railways, the liability of the Government for 1919 was over £39,000,000; for 1920 over £41,000,000. That is to say that while it required about £47,000,000 to pay the dividends of 1913 on the whole of the controlled railways, only about £6,000,000 of this amount was earned in 1920 and the balance of £41,000,000 had to be found by the Government. Now, ladies and gentle-
14761475: I am not authorised to speak for the railway companies as a whole, but I feel quite certain that they will endorse every word when I say that the railway companies welcome any investigation by the right hon. Gentleman, by the Treasury, or by any Department of the State. The railway companies have nothing to conceal. They are men
1476"With reference to the available net income for the past year, which amounted to £2,480,541 and made it possible to pay the dividends which I just enumerated, there is a point which I wish particularly to impress upon you, and that is that £1,652,939, or two-thirds of the net income, was paid to us by the Government as representing additional interest on capital account and deficiency in net receipts of the railway for the past year. If this sum had not been received the real net income of the company would have amounted to only £827,602, to which must be added £124,000 paid as arrears of pay applicable to the year 1919. These two items added together would only amount to about one-third of the sum required to meet the dividends declared to-day. This must be taken merely as an illustration of the financial effect based on the figures for 1920; and it must be borne in mind that the ratio of expenditure to receipts may be materially altered when the Government hands the railways back to the companies. This position does not apply to the Great Northern Railway alone, but will in a greater or lesser degree affect all railway companies in the country. For the whole of the controlled railways, the liability of the Government for 1919 was over £39,000,000; for 1920 over £41,000,000. That is to say that while it required about £47,000,000 to pay the dividends of 1913 on the whole of the controlled railways, only about £6,000,000 of this amount was earned in 1920 and the balance of £41,000,000 had to be found by the Government. Now, ladies and gentle-
14761475Sir F. BANBURY
1477: In all probability what applies to one applies to all. [HON. MEMBERS: "No, no!"] In all probability. I, of course, can give accurate figures only for the company with which I am concerned. I was not giving any figures when I was interrupted. I was stating merely that in 1913, certainly with regard to the Great Northern Railway, and, I believe, with regard to the others, no extra amount was spent on arrears of maintenance over the amounts spent for the previous 10 or 12 years. In 1920, the Great Northern Company renewed their permanent way, which is one of the chief items. They renewed 59 miles. Sixty miles is what was ordinarily renewed in 1913 and in previous years. So
1477Sir F. BANBURY
: I am only sending out this envelope.Sir F. BANBURY
: I did not say it.Sir F. BANBURY
: Does not that include Sunday work?Sir F. BANBURY
: Hear, hear.Sir F. BANBURY
: I gave the actual figure which it cost the Great Northern, which was £33,000, and I said I presumed that probably the result over the whole of the railways would be somewhere about £500,000 or £600,000. Whatever happens on the Great Northern, we generally multiply it by 20 to get the figure for the whole of the railways.Sir F. BANBURY
: They were not available in the Vote Office last week-end. I saw Mr. Speaker about the matter. Mr. Speaker said they were not available. He did not seem to think they would be.Sir F. BANBURY
: On a point of Order. May I say that I have just been to the Vote Office, and I find that the Minutes of Evidence of the Colwyn Committee cannot be obtained.Sir F. BANBURY
: I have one as a railway director, but I had to pay 25s. for it.Sir F. BANBURY
: Oh, yes!Sir F. BANBURY
: Which year is that?Mr. G. BALFOUR
10.  asked the President of the Board of Trade if he is aware that the sealed samples of pencils for school use which were recently exhibited by the London County Council for the purpose of obtaining tenders for the supply of large quantities were pencils of German origin; and what action he proposes to take in the matter?Mr. G. TERRELL
: Is it not obvious that these questions are put with a view to preventing his return?Sir G. YOUNGER
: On a point of Order The extract from the evidence which the right hon. Gentleman was proposing to read refers to the ultimate payment of £90,000,000, and has nothing whatever to do with this one.Sir G. YOUNGER
: We are anxious to find out the claim because the Ministry of Transport will have to come to this House to ask for the taxpayers' money to meet the claim of the railway companies. We are anxious to deal fairly and justly with all the claims of the railway companies. We are not anxious to tear up these scraps of paper. We are anxious to meet liabilities, but we are entitled to know.Sir G. COLLINS
: That the claim is about to be made. I was hoping this afternoon that the claim might be made on the Floor of the House. Large sums of the taxpeyers' money are involved. The House of Commons is entitled to know from the railway director the extent of the claim. From information which I have had supplied to me I understand that the claim on the one point to which I am addressing myself especially is £20,000,000.Sir G. COLLINS
: We had the privilege of hearing evidence on four consecutive days and if the railway companies had been anxious to give evidence before the Committee we should have welcomed them.Sir G. COLLINS
1556: That is a matter which they decided themselves in their
1556Sir G. COLLINS
: I have no doubt that the railway executive acted fairly to the Government and the taxpayers for many months and many years during the War. I do not suggest that they are acting unfairly now. I am only anxious to find out to what extent they are anxious to dip into the public purse. What is the extent of the public liability? Are they going to maintain the spirit which they showed in 1915? I understand that the claim was so made—Sir G. COLLINS
: That is the point. The agreement was made in 1916, but since 1916 Parliament has raised the railway rates and fares. There is a further sum of the taxpayers' money to recoup these railway companies, to replace these particular goods in their stores at the 1914 standard. The money is required in the Estimate for that particular purpose. I was hopeful that in the course of this Debate the railway directors who have been showering abuse on this Committee—Sir G. COLLINS
: I do not want to infringe your ruling, and I will endeavour to keep strictly within the four corners of the Supplementary Estimate. In the Supplementary Estimate sums are required for repairs in excess of standard and also for arrears of maintenance. I was anxious that the railway directors should inform the Committee if the present basis of payment is unfair and inaccurate, and I would like to ask the Minister on what basis he proposes to make these payments in future. The right hon. Baronet in the early part of our Debate referred to the subject, and I was anxious to find out from him whether the payment for stores is on an unfair basis. The payment for stores is based on an agreement made in 1916 under which the Exchequer subsidises the price of each article so that when the article is replaced in store it will be on the 1914 standard. Does the right hon. Baronet think that is a fair basis, and that the taxpayers' money this year should be so used that the stores taken out of the stock of a particular railway company this should be replaced in stock at the 1914 basis? The money so far in this Estimate for that particular purpose alone involves the payment of about £20,000,000.Sir G. COLLINS
: The Debate has ranged over a wide field of questions, and there have been many references to the Report of the Colwyn Committee. The hon. Member for Oldham told the Committee that he was not in a position to judge, between the railway companies and the Government. If the Report of the Colwyn Committee enables the House of Commons to judge more accurately of the dispute between the railway companies and the Government, my colleagues on that Committee may feel that their labours have not been in vain. The Report has been much criticised. One sentence out of the 5,100 questions which were asked and answered—Sir GODFREY COLLINS
: That is a question which I cannot at the moment answer. I do not know whether it is desired that there should be a German verbatim report.Sir G. HEWART
: I do not remember the particular phrase that was employed: it might have been one of two things, according to the question that was asked. We have here examined all the witnesses whose names and addresses we have. In Germany, I understand, certain other persons, whose names and addresses I do not know, have been examined.Sir G. HEWART
1403: I have been asked to answer this question. On Friday last I had a conference with the two German representatives who have come from Leipzig upon this matter, and discussed and agreed certain outstanding points of procedure. It is hoped that the trials in Leipzig may begin about a month hence.
1403The ATTORNEY-GENERAL (Sir G. Hewart)
1404: I think the two hon. and gallant Gentleman who have asked these questions have a little forgotten what it is that has led up to this position. What happened was that the Germans proposed that they should show their good faith by the trial of a selected number of persons upon a long list. Those persons were accordingly selected, and the responsibility of the procedure rests with the Germans. But as it was thought desirable that the living witnesses should be brought forward, as distinguished from the documentary evidence, it was stipulated, if need be, that representatives of the Allied and Associated Powers should be present. If they are present, they will be present, not as conducting, or controlling, or taking part in the trial, but rather, I
1404Sir G. HEWART
1409: Six men were executed in Cork this morning, five for levying war on the King, the sixth, John Allen, for having in his possession a revolver and ammunition, and a pamphlet entitled "Night Fighting." In the case of the last prisoner an application was made on his behalf to the King's Bench Division, sitting in Dublin, for a Habeas Corpus to test the validity of his sentence,
1409Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have done the best I can.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, Sir; I have read the answer given to me. If my hon. and gallant Friend puts down a further question, I will get an answer.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Whilst Colonel Latimer's case is under consideration, it would be unfair to make any statement with regard to the suspension of this officer, except to say that his case is receiving fair and just consideration, and that suspension is not inconsistent with an inquiry which may result in his being cleared of any imputation.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: The suggestion contained in the hon. and gallant Gentleman's question is wholly without foundation. County Inspector King is at present on sick leave in Scotland where he is now undergoing specialist's treatment. It will not be possible for him to return to Ireland for some weeks. The House will remember that this gallant officer was himself wounded on the night of the 31st January last when his wife was brutally murdered in his arms. The facts are that special steps have been taken to obtain Captain King's evidence by affidavit in the form of a series of questions set down by Mr. Healy, K.C., and by the court. The court will consider the answers to these questions before they arrive at a decision in this matter.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Was not the Committee appointed for that purpose—to find out some means of breaking up the agreements?Mr. CAUTLEY
: Is it not a fact that in 999 cases out of 1,000 these men are doing their duty splendidly.Lieut-Colonel CROFT
44.  asked the Prime Minister whether he has any information showing that a super-submarine, more powerful than any yet built, has been or is being constructed in Germany; and, if so, if he can make any statement on the subject?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
54.  asked the Prime Minister whether his attention has been called to the fact that a recent recipient of a high honour is reported to have been convicted under the Defence of the Realm Act for food hoarding during the War; and, if so, whether he proposes to take any action?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Will the recommendations of the Committee be made public?Mr. WILSON-FOX
55.  asked the Lord Privy Seal what are the terms of reference of Sir Alfred Watson's Committee which has been inquiring into the question of official statistics; who are the members of the Committee; and what are their respective qualifications?Mr. WILSON-FOX
: As to the last portion of the question, shall we have a verbatim report of the proceedings?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: Were the witnesses, to whom the right hon. and learned Gentleman referred a short time ago in answer to a question, who have been examined, British or German witnesses?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
27.  asked the Prime Minister whether a date has yet been fixed for the trial at Leipzig of the seven accused German officers, Lieut.-Commander Patzig, Lieut.-Commander Neumann, Lieut.-Commander Werner, and Neumann, Trienke, Müller, and Heinze; whether any British witnesses have so far been examined, and what counsel it it is proposed to instruct to represent Britain at the trial; whether the trial is to be by jury; whether any allied judges will be permitted to sit as assessors or otherwise; and whether a verbatim report of the trial will in due course be laid upon the Table or circulated amongst the Members of this House?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
1427(by Private Notice) 1427(by Private Notice)Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that there is a legal remedy for malicious libels and malicious attacks?Mr. BOTTOMLEY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware of any rumours to justify answering a question of this kind, and does he not think that questions of this kind will create mischief, instead of helping leaders on both sides?Mr. LAWSON
: The answer to the first two parts of the question is in the affirmative, and the third part does not, therefore, arise. With regard to the last part of the question, the £50,000 is still held as a deposit.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of MUNITIONS (Mr. James Hope)
: I do not know the official name, but I will find out.Mr. HOPE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman give an undertaking to this House that before he gives up any of these temporary buildings he will give up the business and residential premises in which various Departments are now being housed?Mr. KILEY
: Is it proposed to terminate the existence of this Committee on the 19th May?Mr. KILEY
: The hon. Gentleman must give notice of that question.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member should give notice of those questions.Mr. SPEAKER
sub judice.sub judice,: That is a question to which I cannot at present give a complete answer. My view is that, subject to what may develop during the Debate, the Colwyn Report is relevant to the matter now before us, in so far as it elucidates the agreements under which this money is to be paid. On the other hand, if it is sub judice.sub judice,The CHAIRMAN
15331532153115301529: The hon. Member misunderstands me. It was not the Report I was referring to, but the speech of the right hon. Gentleman delivered as chairman of a railway company, and my hon. Friend the Member for Derby naturally said that there seemed to be a common parentage for these speeches, and his inference from the speeches of every chairman was that the cause of these troubles of the railway companies was based upon the abnormal wages that were paid to the railwaymen of this country. I think that is accurately stating the Debate, as far as the two right hon. Gentlemen were concerned. I had hoped it would have gone along those lines, but unfortunately an hon. Member who sat in the Committee thought he would defend his Committee, and those who do not like the suggestion of the Committee thought it their duty to belabour him, with the result that we are forgetting the Estimate and forgetting that, after all, when we get right down the question is as to the utility and advisability of keeping in being the Ministry of Transport. My mind goes back to a discussion on a former occasion, when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Paisley took part in the discussion. He gave us what an ancient
15331532153115301529Mr. SEDDON
: I agree to some extent with the last speaker that many of the speeches have certainly not been in accord with the subject before the House, namely, the Supplementary Estimate to which we are asked to give our consent. But I always understood before I was a Member of this House that this was the grand inquest of national questions. Latter speeches have led me to believe that that was wrong. I was going by the earlier speeches, those of the Members for the City of London and for Derby. We were then getting to close grips.Mr. SEDDON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman also take into consideration the fact that there is sworn evidence that prize fighters were imported for the purpose of breaking up Labour meetings?Mr. J. H. THOMAS
62.  asked the Minister of Transport whether Mr. Andrews, late solicitor to the London and North Western Railway Company, is acting for the Minister of Transport; and, if so, whether he will explain why Mr. Andrews is allowed to act also for the railway companies?Mr. J. H. THOMAS
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say if the railway companies appoint someone to conduct negotiations, and then these representatives are charged with acting for the Ministry of Transport, who are we to accept as representing the railway companies?Mr. THOMAS
: Before he gives his final answer to this question, will the right hon. Gentleman trouble to look up the repeated abusive and vindictive attacks made by the hon. Member on Mr. Macdonald, one of the candidates, and whether these attacks are not the cause of the treatment of which he complains?Mr. CLYNES
1421: The Ministry believes that the facts are as stated by the hon. Member, but the decision of an
1421Sir J. GILMOUR
: I understand that the Ministry have no power to intervene in that. Perhaps the hon. Member might consult counsel with regard to it.Sir J. GILMOUR
1422: Various societies, such as the Royal Society for the Protection of Animals, the Dumb Friends League, the National Equine Defence League, and other individual animal lovers, keep the Ministry well supplied with independent reports upon the way in which the Exportation of Horses Act of 1914 and the Horses (Importation and Transit) Order of 1913 are administered by the Ministry's officers. This week letters of introduction have been given to representatives of the National Equine
1422Sir J. GILMOUR
: Perhaps the hon. and gallant Member will wait for the Minister of Agriculture's return. [HON. MEMBERS: "When?" and "Wait and see!"]Sir J. GILMOUR
: My Noble Friend, the First Lord of the Admiralty, on the occasion referred to, while not suggesting that the agricultural interest and the national interest were in conflict on the issues raised, wished, no doubt, to emphasise the fact that, though the primary concern of the Minister of Agriculture was obviously, and at all times, the prosperity of the agricultural industry, yet controversial questions of policy had necessarily to be examined in the light of the wider interests of the whole community, and that these, as my hon. and gallant Friend will agree, must in all circumstances prevail.Sir J. GILMOUR
: I must have notice of that question.Sir J. GILMOUR
: I believe that a statement approaching what the right hon. Gentleman says was made.Sir J. GILMOUR
: I cannot go further than the answer which I have just read.Sir J. GILMOUR
: My Noble Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty, in the statement to which the hon. and gallant Member refers, expressed his personal view that, in the present state of world politics, and having regard to the changed conditions arising out of the War, it would be impracticable to limit to Canada alone the fresh legislation that would be necessary to remove the embargo on the importation of store cattle from abroad.Lieut.-Colonel Sir J. GILMOUR
50.  asked the Prime Minister whether, for the purpose of removing doubts, he will state what, in the view of the Government, is the proper body or authority to ratify or to reject the Washington Conventions under Article 405 of the Peace Treaty?Major HILLS
15261525: It is a very complicated question. Look at the question of maintenance. An hon. Member says that you must not charge the taxpayer more for maintenance that the amount of work done in 1913 charged at the 1920 price. In 1913 the railway carried a few trains of passengers and goods. In the War it carried vast stores of the Admiralty. The whole conditions changed. There you might have an increased charge. I entirely agree that any company which goes to the Ministry and asks for an increased charge must have its claim put to the proof. What I object to in my hon. Friend's speech is that he tried, no doubt unconsciously, to pile up a case for one side only. He is questioning an agreement that has been in force for seven years. He is questioning it in the light of after-events, and he is giving only one side of the case. It is very difficult to make progress when you start by using vague words like "reviewing an agreement." Either an agreement is an agreement, or it is not.
15261525Major HILLS
1524: I agree with the last speaker in his appeal for brevity. The right hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Thomas) told the Committee that he strongly supported the 1914 agreement, and that that agreement must be observed. The right, hon. Gentleman also said that the real cause of the trouble on the railways was not the labour trouble, and I understood him to say that if there were more skill in management a large saving could be effected on the railways. I would ask the Committee to remember the enormous cost of labour. It is quite out of proportion to what has affected other industries. We were also told that the people who run the railways in this country were the only people who did not know our train mileage. I could hardly believe my ears. Is it seriously suggested that any one concerned with the railways does not know the train mileage? I can speak for only one railway, and I can say that it is the element which everybody concerned with the railways must know. That statement rather vitiated all the right hon. Gentleman's criticism. The right hon. Gentleman would mislead the Committee grossly if he allowed them to think that there are vast savings to be effected on the railways. I can assure him that the management is just about as good as it could be. I have seen management in many forms
1524Major HILLS
"More Waste! The Ministry of Transport ask for £21,000,000."1521: I will say in reference to that letter that, if the Ministry of Transport had been advising the Government of the day in 1916 it is more than probable that the cost of the Ministry of Transport as a Department for the next 50 years would have been saved in a half hour, but, just because the Minister of Transport is a watchdog for the public interest, he cannot easily be a judge in this case, because he is an advocate, a party interested in the settlement of this matter. On the other hand, I should be extremely sorry to see these questions taken into the Law Courts for decision. I recognise that if the railway companies desire to take that course no one can prevent them, but I feel confident that if some tribunal could be set up in which both sides would have confidence, and on which both sides could discuss their case without prejudice, it ought to be possible to come to an arrangement of these claims. It would certainly be to the benefit of the State to have the
"More Waste! The Ministry of Transport ask for £21,000,000."1521Mr. HOPKINS
1520"You may show this letter if you think fit to any of your colleagues who may care to see it."1519: I regret that it is not possible under your ruling to make any answer to the speech of the hon. Member opposite. The difficulties encountered by the Committee are not due to the agreements themselves; at any rate the early agreements. These agreements were to any railway man perfectly plain in their meaning. Every railwayman knows that in every agreement for the rental or working of a railway, there are always doubtful points as to what is repairs and when repairs are merged into renewals and when both repairs and renewals are merged into betterment. These could be discussed, arranged anad settled under the earlier agreement, and I do think that the Government of that date were to blame for entering into that agreement. They had to make some arrangement to carry out the intention of Parliament under the Act of 1871 which says that full compensation for any loss or injury caused by the exercise of the powers of control of the railways shall be made good to the railways. No doubt the agreement with regard to net receipts was the most convenient form in which that compensation could be arranged and secured. My hon. Friend opposite pointed out that the agreement was so imperfect that it did not even specify that Government troops and Government cargoes were to be carried free. If the agreement omitted that, it was entirely immaterial. If the net receipts were to be made up by the Government it was quite immaterial whether the Government paid in cash or whether it was a matter of account.1520"You may show this letter if you think fit to any of your colleagues who may care to see it."1519Mr. HOPKINS
"In view of the history of the negotiations leading up to the agreement of 1914, we have considered whether we should recommend a revision of that agreement.": It would be somewhat difficult to exaggerate the importance of this Vote, having regard to the present financial position of the country. It is not only a question of £21,000,000, but the very much larger sum which is bound to come later on. I was glad to hear one hon. Member (Sir H. Mackinder), who was partly responsible for the Colwyn Report, disclaim any intention or any desire on the part of the majority of the members of that Committee to repudiate the agreement. If that was the frame of mind of the majority of the members, I do think that their Report was very unfortunately worded in many instances, particularly in one of their conclusions on page 33:
"In view of the history of the negotiations leading up to the agreement of 1914, we have considered whether we should recommend a revision of that agreement."Mr. HOPKINS
1518: You will find that I am not transgressing your ruling. The hon. Member opposite stated that the majority Members of the Colwyn Com-
1518Mr. HOPKINS
: Is this £6,000,000, or the £9,500,000 which it is to be, included or allowed for in the present Estimate of £21,000,000?Mr. HOPKINS
: I thought we did not pay the excess.Mr. HOPKINS
: Is the hon. and gallant Gentleman aware that these are all ex-service men, that the original assessment was £32, that the difference between their calculation and the landlord's was £16, and that they are now being asked to pay a further £32? Is he also aware that the pre-War rent of this land was £32 per annum, and that the ex-soldiers are offering to pay £61?Mr. MILLS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman establish the possibility of action in the direction desired?Mr. MILLS
: May I ask whether that means the decontrol of the Minister of Mines?Mr. MILLS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman take into consideration the fact that it would be better for this country, in view of the facts set forth in the question, if the Government could bring about an early resumption of trade relations?Mr. MILLS
15.  asked the President of the Board of Trade if he is aware of the continued discharges of ex-service men and civilians in the cement industry at Greenhithe, Swanscombe and Northfleet; and whether this is due to an embargo on the export of cement?Mr. MILLS
: What is the figure?Mr. RAWLINSON
indicated dissent. indicated dissent.Mr. RAWLINSON
: What are the correct figures?Mr. RAWLINSON
: The fact that it is not obtainable from the Vote Office does not necessarily make, it out of order. It may be obtainable by purchase.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN (Mr. Rawlinson)
: If the evidence has been published it is obtainable by the public. It may probably be a matter of strong comment that the Government have not provided it, but it does not make it out of Order to quote documents published, and which can be bought by anybody.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: The hon. Member is justifying the Report of the Colwyn Commission and he is making this comparison.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: On a point of Order. It is perfectly true that this £21,000,000 is wanted in order to carry out certain agreements, and to that extent it is in order to refer to the agreement, but the House dealt with it in the Ministry of Transport Act of 1919, Section 3, and in that Act the Minister got the powers under which he now asks for this £21.000,000. For it says that where at the passing of this Act possession has been taken of any railroad under the Act of 1871, then he may keep possession without a warrant from the Secretary of State upon the same terms as to compensation "as those heretofore in force." That is a statutory recognition of the agreements with the railway companies existing on the 15th August, 1919, when that Act was passed. I submit that any attack on those agreements is out of order.Mr. LESLIE SCOTT
"The Government attach great importance to the maintenance of the coastwise traffic, and the Committee are to advise what increases should be made in the exceptional rates charged in consequence of water competition."15631562: I want to raise a question which bears directly on these Supplementary Estimates. Under the provisions at present obtaining money has, of course, to be paid to the railway companies by the Government to make up the annual deficiency. One cause of that deficiency is that there are large volumes of goods carried in this country from port to port in competition with sea-borne traffic coastwise, and from other places in competition with canal traffic. I want to deal with the coastwise traffic and the hon. Member for Ladywood (Mr. N. Chamberlain) will deal with the canal position. In August last the subsidy for coastwise traffic was withdrawn, that is since the last Estimate was before the House. In July the Rates Advisory Committee were asked by the Government to deal specially with this question of rates on the railways in competition with coastwise traffic. In December they reported that the question was one of such great difficulty that they could not deal with it and they
"The Government attach great importance to the maintenance of the coastwise traffic, and the Committee are to advise what increases should be made in the exceptional rates charged in consequence of water competition."15631562Mr. L. SCOTT
: Will the right hon. Gentleman quote the actual speech?Mr. MARSHALL STEVENS
1565"Except for the competition of the water carriers who can take much of the town traffic from wharves adjoining the traders' works, and the import traffic from alongside ship, there appears to be no reason for the free service rendered."1564: The point which I want to put is closely analogous to that which has been put by my hon. and learned Friend who has just sat down. The Parliamentary Secretary said a little while ago that the reason why he is here asking for £21,000,000 is because, when the railway rates were fixed they were cut so finely as to leave no margin for any possible contingency, which has, in fact, since arisen. This is not merely a matter which concerns the railways, or even the taxpayers in general, but the effect of this subsidy to-day is to strangle and to prevent, if something is not done, any possibility of the canals being resuscitated in the
1565"Except for the competition of the water carriers who can take much of the town traffic from wharves adjoining the traders' works, and the import traffic from alongside ship, there appears to be no reason for the free service rendered."1564Mr. NEVILLE CHAMBERLAIN
1396: Is the right hon. Gentleman also aware that during
1396Mr. R. McLAREN
: Seeing that the Easter holidays are now becoming very popular in Scotland, will this apply to the Scottish railways?Mr. R. McLAREN
11. 1391 asked the President of the Board of Trade
1391Mr. ROBERT RICHARDSON
7.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether he is aware of the serious discrimination against producers of cotton manufactures in this country by the new outward rates fixed by the shipowners; is he aware that the rate to Alexandria from Liverpool is 77s. 6d. per ton, and from Antwerp only 28s. per ton, to Bombay, Karachi, Calcutta, and Colombo the rate from Liverpool is 95s. per ton, and from Antwerp 45s. per ton, to Fremantle, Adelaide, Melbourne, and Sydney the rate from Liverpool is 125s. per ton, and from Antwerp 75s. per ton; and what steps does he propose to take to secure for British produce as cheap a freight as the foreigner obtains?Mr. WADDINGTON
: Do I understand that the right hon. Gentleman is making inquiries of the Co-operative Society?Mr. YOUNG
1.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether he can explain the working of short time by miners in the districts adjacent to Earlestown, Lancashire, when there is an apparent shortage of coal in that area; whether the firm supplying the Earlestown Co-operative Society cannot fulfil its requirements; whether other colliery companies in the district absolutely refused to accept the society's order for coal; and whether he is aware that working people have to borrow coal from each other to meet their needs, thus causing much inconvenience and hardship to people, although they live on the border of a coalfield?Mr. ROBERT YOUNG
: I have been listening for a good many hours to the Debate this afternoon, and it does not seem to me that the gravest point in the submission of these Estimates has been met at all. The White Paper states that the original Estimate was £22,000,000. The Supplementary Estimate is £21,000,000. I have seen a good many Estimates presented, and a great many Supplementary Estimates to make up the balance during a financial year, but I have never known a Supplementary Estimate containing so great a ratio to the original one as the one presented this afternoon. I do not quite understand the £4,000,000 additional, to which the White Paper alludes, but it would seem to me that £4,000,000 has been paid in the meantime out of the Civil Contingencies Fund, and that, in addition to the £4,000,000, there will be required £21,000,000 more to carry out the working agreements with the railway companies and with the workpeople at the same time. That is to say, if I have got the thing in right proportion, £47,000,000 is really required, and the Minister presents us with an original Estimate of £23,000,000.Mr. STEPHEN WALSH
: Why cannot the Members of the House have it?Mr. WALSH
: Would the deficit have been £25,000,000 if that payment of £4,000,000 had not been made?Mr. WALSH
: You have not given us the computation upon which you arrived at it.Mr. WALSH
153615351534: I know all that. The right hon. Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean) made a reference to the £4,000,000 payment from the Civil Contingencies Fund when the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Transport was sitting in his place, and he gave no denial to the statement that that
153615351534Mr. WALSH
: Hear, hear!Mr. WALSH
: He had that before.Mr. WALSH
(by Private Notice) (by Private Notice)Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: My intervention was merely for our guidance on a question of procedure, as to whether the hon. Member who made this statement had had notice that a serious criticism was going to be made upon his figures, because in that event his absence would support the right hon. Gentleman's complaint.Mr. INSKIP
: Did the right hon Gentleman tell the hon. Member concerned that he was going to describe the sentence in question as untrue in the House to-day?Mr. INSKIP
: Is it not the case that some of these massacres which have been reported have been found never to have happened at all?Sir C. WARNER
: Will no further statement of promise be made without consulting the agriculturists of this country?Sir C. WARNER
: What was done with it?Mr. HARTSHORN
: I have not received any previous complaint of scarcity of coal in the Earlestown district, but am making enquiries as to the specific points raised by the hon. Member.The SECRETARY for MINES (Mr. Bridgeman)
: I quite agree that rumours of an alarmist character are more calculated to do harm than good. I am not, however, responsible for saying that, these rumours exist; it is the hon. and gallant Gentleman.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: I do not admit there is any breach of faith.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: I am aware that such rumours are being circulated, but I do not think hon. Members will attach undue importance to them. Stocks of coal are normal for the time of year, and there is certainly, owing to lack of markets abroad, a considerable quantity of coal available at present. But it is quite clear that a general stoppage of the pits would soon cause the stoppage of industries dependent on coal, and cause very great loss and hardship.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: That does not arise out of this question.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: I do not quite know who controls me, except the Board of Trade.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
1395: I think it is better that I should not attempt to anticipate the statement which, as I said in my
1395Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: I am quite aware of that. Of course, any displacement of our trade by any foreign country must cause unemployment unless we can find some other outlet.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: The quantity of coal exported from the United States of America to Europe during the 12 months ended June, 1913 (the annual period for which the American statistics are made up), was 476,000 tons, and the quantities similarly exported in the calendar year 1913 from Australia were 100 tons, and from China 20,200 tons. During the calendar year 1920 the quantity of coal exported to Europe from the United States of America was 13,383,000 tons and from Australia 113,000 tons. The quantity of Chinese coal exported to Europe in the year 1920 is not known. As regards the last part of this question, I might point out that the British output for the last six weeks of 1920 seems to show that it would have been within the power of the British industry, without employing additional labour, to produce another 13,000.000 tons during the year 1920.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: I am not without hope of recovering it.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: That is rather referring to past history. The important thing is to get better agreements for the future.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: Is the whole question of Egypt going to be hung up until after Easter?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: When will that be?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
35.  asked the Prime Minister whether any information, official or unofficial, has been received by the British Government from Egypt regarding the reception in that country of the Milner Mission's Report, and of the more recent utterances regarding the future of Egypt made by himself and the Secretary of State for the Colonies; and whether he will make a further statement on the matter so as to clear up apparent misunderstandings which have arisen?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
36.  asked the Prime Minister whether he can give the House any information regarding the recent revolution in Persia; whether there is still any possibility of any Persian Government or mejliss ratifying the Anglo-Persian Agreement; whether there has been a quorum of the mejliss in Teheran for the last three months; whether the mejliss was only prevented from meeting owing to the unpopularity in Persia of the Anglo-Persian Agreement; and whether he will now ease the situation of the new Persian Government by issuing a declaration that the British Government are ready to regard the Agreement as having lapsed?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: As the answer has not been read to the House, may I ask is it definite that the Anglo-Persian Agreement is no longer regarded as being in force and we are rid of that incubus?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
34.  asked the Prime Minister to which Minister questions regarding Egypt, the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, Arabia, Aden, and Mesopotamia should now be addressed; and what territories come within the purview of the new Middle-Eastern Department of the Colonial Office?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Then we may take it that the India Office is out of it?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: One thing is quite clear—that the India Office will no longer have any footing in Arabia?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Are not the Regular forces of the Crown the proper forces to be employed to enforce law and order in that country?Captain REDMOND
: Owing to the startling revelations during the last week concerning the irregular forces employed by the Government in Ireland, does the right hon. Gentleman mean to say that the Government intend to keep up these irregular forces and these irregular methods of dealing with questions of law and order in Ireland?Captain REDMOND
72.  asked the Minister of Agriculture if his attention has been drawn to the award of the official arbitrator relating to the Wellington allotment land at Skirbeck, Boston; whether the award will involve the payment by the ex-service allotment holders of rent at the rate of £16 per acre per year; whether the award was in excess of the amount asked by the owner of the land; and will he state what steps, if any, he will take to remedy this oppressive charge?Mr. ROYCE
: May I ask whether the Ministry will take some action in this matter, to upset a verdict which has been given in favour of the owner for an amount larger than that for which he asked?Mr. ROYCE
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether the items charged for extensions were referred to the Government for their sanction?Mr. ROYCE
: Is it not a fact that there is an Act of Parliament already in existence that gives protection for speakers at public meetings?Mr. W. THORNE
: Are the Gentlemen mentioned in the question members of the Anti-Waste League?Mr. W. THORNE
: Is it not a fact that the mercantile shipping which has been "pinched" from Germany and sold to the shipowners of this country is one of the causes of the depression in the shipyards of this country?Mr. W. THORNE
: Is there any possibility of arriving at an agreement with the railway companies so that short distance travelling people will be able to get some reduction during the Easter and Whitsuntide holidays, and not fix the minimum at 15s.?Mr. W. THORNE
: Is that the reason you are not going to give these people any privilege?Mr. THORNE
: You have to take, the swings with the roundabouts!Mr. THORNE
: I regret that until the staffs in occupation of the buildings are materially reduced I shall not be in a position to give any date as to when the buildings in question will be removed and the paths restored. I am continually giving my careful consideration to this problem, as I am most anxious to restore these open spaces to their proper use. The hon. Member may, however, be interested to learn that about £120,000 per annum is being saved to the public in rent, rates and taxes by the retention of these buildings.Sir A. MOND
: Notices have been given for the surrender of the allotments in question by the 28th February, 1922, and the ground will be restored as soon as they are vacated.The FIRST COMMISSIONER of WORKS (Sir A. Mond)
1424: My policy has been to surrender business and residential premises before any temporary buildings. My right hon. Friend certainly will not
1424Sir A. MOND
: I should not like to commit myself to any statement as to the length of life of these buildings, as they are only of a temporary nature.Sir A. MOND
: Why did not they come?Mr. HIGHAM
15231522: I have listened for the last three and a half hours to this Debate. I have heard a very illuminating address
15231522Mr. HIGHAM
: On a point of Order. May I point out that the hon. Member is now dealing with the Colwyn Report. Are we to have that subject over again?Mr. HIGHAM
48.  asked the Prime Minister whether the Government is altering its present policy of maintaining law and order in Ireland; and whether the Chief Secretary for Ireland will be allowed to carry to a successful conclusion his administration as explained to the House by the Prime Minister?Mr. HIGHAM
: I was otherwise occupied at the moment, and was not paying close attention to what the hon. Member had said, but I will now listen carefully.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: That is exactly what I ruled out of order. What Members of that particular Committee did is no concern of this Committee now. In so far as the hon. Member may find material in the Report to assist him in discussing these Supplementary Estimates, that would be in order, and so would material from any other source, but I cannot allow discussion as to whether certain Members of the Colwyn Committee desired to repudiate the agreements or not.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: The Colwyn Report is not before the Committee at this sitting. What is before the Committee is a Supplementary Estimate. In so far as the Colwyn Committee's Report assists us in the purpose of considering the Supplementary Estimates members can refer to it, but to take the report as a report, and to be continually referring to the Committee's deliberations, its recommendations, its minutes, and its evidence is entirely out of order.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I am obliged to the right hon. Gentleman (Sir D. Maclean). I have allowed the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hopkins) to go on because I did not wish continually to be calling hon. Members to Order, but I must ask the hon. Gentleman not to refer further to the letters and the particulars in the Colwyn Report.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: The right hon. Gentleman, in discussing anything that arises from the Report, may use it in so far as it has a bearing on the Supplementary Estimates, but may not discuss the value of the Report as a Report. In so far as there is anything in the Report to illustrate this particular Estimate, it can be referred to, but not otherwise.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Before I came into the Chair I understood the Chairman of Ways and Means to indicate that the Colwyn Report could only be used in so far as it had a bearing on this Vote. I have not been in the Chair long enough to give any further ruling at present, but, as far as I have heard, the hon. Gentleman seems to me to be departing from the ruling which the Chairman gave.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN (Sir E. Cornwall)
: In matters of this kind, a great deal of discretion is left to the Chair.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: It was those remarks that led me to rise and ask the right hon. Gentleman not to discuss the Report. The work done by the members of the Committee is not a matter which is before this Committee now.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Oh, yes, quite possible.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
1514: I have no intention of causing that result at all. I am sure that if hon. Members will try
1514The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I am sure the hon. Gentleman is very desirous of helping the Chair and I hope he will do so, but he cannot do that by discussing the Committee's Report, which he is now obviously doing.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I am much obliged to the hon. and learned Gentleman. I will bear in mind what he says.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I should like to hear the reply of the hon. Member as to the historical connection.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: The hon. Member seems to have started a discussion of a Report which has been ruled out of order many times during this sitting.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN (Sir E. Cornwall)
: The hon. Member need not refer to difficulty. He must confine himself to the rules of the House with regard to Supplementary Estimates. If we were discussing the Main Estimates, or if a day had been set apart for discussion of the Colwyn Committee's Report, it would be quite different. The rules governing Supplementary Estimates are quite well known, and must be adhered to.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I think the hon. Member is now getting too far away from the Supplementary Estimates.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
1566: I desire to thank the Committee for the very careful and painstaking consideration they have given to the Supplementary Estimate. If I may for one moment deal with the case of the canals and the coastal shipping as presented by two hon. Members, it is, as they know, an extraordinarily difficult matter to deal with the rates separately, as their number is legion. I have referred the matter to a Committee, and they are considering a revision. I hope that work will not take so long about it as my hon. Friend forecaste. I am entirely in sympathy with trying to get these rates justifiably, on a sound commercial basis. It is just a question whether it is physically possible to deal with it, but I am asking that the Committee" shall, if possible, get on with the subject more expeditiously than my hon. Friend fears they will do. As to the general question, the Parliamentary question, whether or not the Committee are going to pass this Vote with the various questions which have arisen—the purport, validity, and intent of the various so called railway agreements, and this mass of documents which embody the understanding between the railways and the State—and so on—the point has been put: what about
1566Sir E. GEDDES
15681567sub judice,: Yes, a week from now. The matter is intricate. I had a talk with the Attorney-General to-day, and he asked that they should have a little more time to consider the various questions which have been raised. As soon as the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown has been received the matter will come again before the Cabinet. In the meantime I have done what I feel in all the circumstances of the case I was entitled to do, and which I believe the House will approve. As the Committee will be aware, I felt it my duty, pending investigation, to stop £1,000,000 out of the December accounts to the companies as a whole, not to all the companies. But there are some where the expenditure appears to require more justification. That is not the majority. However, in the case of December I have stopped the £1,000,000: none of that has been paid.15681567sub judice,Sir E. GEDDES
: It is almost impossible to say what are the exact figures. If you say what an industrial property has earned in a year you mean what it earns as profit after you have charged the expense attributable to that year and the receipts attributable to that year. The £6,000,000 mentioned is not that figure.Sir E. GEDDES
1467: What I am quoting from is the statement that on the whole of the controlled railways only about 6 millions of the amount was earned in 1920. That is a point on which not only the right hon. Gentleman is wrong but
1467Sir E. GEDDES
: I should be delighted to hear the justification which may be given by the right hon. Gentleman, but I am not concerned with what he said in other parts of his speech.Sir E. GEDDES
1466"Now, ladies and gentleman, I do not think it is ever any use concealing unpleasant facts, and I have thought it my duty to lay the situation before you in plain words and plain figures as I have just done.""For the whole of the controlled railways the liability of the Government for 1919 was over £39,000,000, and for 1920 over £41,000,000. That is to say, that while it required about £47,000,000 to pay the dividends of 1913 on the whole of the controlled railways, only about £6,000,000 of that amount was earned in 1920."14651464: In introducing this Supplementary Estimate, I would invite attention to the fact that the original Estimate, made October a year ago, was for £22,000,000. The Supplementary Estimate appears at first sight to be 100 per cent. additional to the original Estimate. It is really not quite so wide of the mark as that, because this figure is a balance figure. It is the balance between an income of £325,000,000 and an expenditure of £275,000,000 per annum, so that we really have a total of £600,000,000. It was estimated that the variant would be £22,000,000, but we have had to introduce an additional Estimate of £21,000,000, therefore the Supplemental Estimate on the whole sum is not 100 per cent., but 3·5 per cent. The Committee, I am sure, will realise that during the past year and few months the unexpected incidents which have arisen are a full justification for inability to estimate more closely on such very large sums of money. There is in the cost of material a rise of about £10,000,000. There is in coal a rise of about £3,000,000. During the War there were the findings of appointed tribunals which added an additional £20,000,000 to the wages bill. Rates, taxes, and compensation for damage and pilferage have gone up £3,000,000. There was the coal strike, which actually cost the railways in reduced traffic £8,000,000. There were the political disturbances in
1466"Now, ladies and gentleman, I do not think it is ever any use concealing unpleasant facts, and I have thought it my duty to lay the situation before you in plain words and plain figures as I have just done.""For the whole of the controlled railways the liability of the Government for 1919 was over £39,000,000, and for 1920 over £41,000,000. That is to say, that while it required about £47,000,000 to pay the dividends of 1913 on the whole of the controlled railways, only about £6,000,000 of that amount was earned in 1920."14651464The MINISTER of TRANSPORT (Sir Eric Geddes)
1468: The hon. Member shakes his head. He asked me to give the exact figure. I say that £20,000,000 or more under the points I have given is the figure. If my hon. Friend desires, I will endeavour to elaborate it, but I do not want to speak at great length. The £6,000,000 mentioned as the earnings of the railways for the year is wrong, and I say that it is understated by more than £20,000,000. Now we come back to the estimates for the £47,000,000 total deficit for the year, and I will ask the Committee to allow mo to make it clear throughout these figures that there are three instances where by coincidence we get the same amount of money referring to entirely different things. It is an unfortunate coincidence. A sum of £47,000,000 represented the net earnings for 1913, and the £47,000,000 in this estimate is the £22,000,000 plus £21,000,000 plus £4,000,000 recovered, making a total of £17,000,000 which the Committee is being asked to provide for the year. This is the gross deficit on the intromissions on the cash transactions for the financial year. There was a "lag" on previous years' claims in March last of £6,000,000. Of this, £1,900,000 was for payments of arrears claimed on the maintenance of previous years which had not been settled. They were old claims belonging to previous, years settled this year. Then there was £4,100,000 in respect of claims belonging to March of last year, which sum comes out of the present financial year. These sums make up the £6,000,000.
1468Sir E. GEDDES
: I have just endeavoured to show that under the headings I have explained £20,000,000 or more could be added to that sum of £6,000,000.Sir E. GEDDES
1470"We understand from the statements you made to us to-day that there is some apprehension on the part of the advisers of the Government that advantage may be taken by some companies of the settlement provisionally come to with the Government as to the basis of compensation under Section 16 of the Regulation of Forces Act, 1871, to spend abnormal sums out of revenue on the maintenance and renewal of their lines and stock. I have to say that while the Executive Committee cannot believe that any company would the capable of acting in such a manner, they have from the first regarded it as an obligation of honour to protect the Government against the possibility of such an event, and they had before your visit already taken steps to safeguard the position of the Government in this respect.": We have been paying the excess right through. The account, as I explained, is a current account. I said that the year 1914 is provisionally closed, though I do not admit that we cannot go back to those items. The subsequent years are not closed. These excess items have been challenged, and special justification asked for and special investigation is being made. I cannot really say how we are going to stand on these excesses, but I should like to read a letter written by Sir Herbert Walker, the acting chairman of the Railway Executive Committee, on the 9th August, 1914, which, I think, governs not only this question, but the whole of the arrangements come to with the railways. He wrote:
1470"We understand from the statements you made to us to-day that there is some apprehension on the part of the advisers of the Government that advantage may be taken by some companies of the settlement provisionally come to with the Government as to the basis of compensation under Section 16 of the Regulation of Forces Act, 1871, to spend abnormal sums out of revenue on the maintenance and renewal of their lines and stock. I have to say that while the Executive Committee cannot believe that any company would the capable of acting in such a manner, they have from the first regarded it as an obligation of honour to protect the Government against the possibility of such an event, and they had before your visit already taken steps to safeguard the position of the Government in this respect."Sir E. GEDDES
: The £6,000,000 for the year is in this Estimate.Sir E. GEDDES
"The Committee do not interpret the claim before them as a claim by the railwaymen to be put in a preferential position and to be granted rates of remuneration in excess of that to which, by the nature of their work, they are fairly entitled."14721471: Up to the time that the Ministry of Transport was created they were not, but since the Ministry of Transport started every item has been sanctioned and they have been scrutinised by engineers."The Committee do not interpret the claim before them as a claim by the railwaymen to be put in a preferential position and to be granted rates of remuneration in excess of that to which, by the nature of their work, they are fairly entitled."14721471Sir E. GEDDES
: The interest is £1,000,000 and it is at 4 or 5 per cent. I do not know what was the actual sum.Sir E. GEDDES
malâ fides1474: Nor the men. They came with their expert knowledge to assist the lay members of the Committee. In these circumstances, it is only creating prejudice to say that the Ministry of Transport and the Government have unduly forced up wages. It is not fair. The wages may be too high—I do not know—but that Committee did not find that they were too high at that time. There is a sliding scale, and it is on that scale that the wages are regulated to-day. If an ascertainment were taken to-day, the men would lose 3s., and if the level of living goes on dropping until the end of this month it will probably be 4s., which will amount to £7,200,000 a year. To say that the Government and the Ministry of Transport have arbitrarily forced up the wages of railwaymen is a distortion of the facts; it is not true. I will not detain the Committee longer at this stage, because I hope either myself or the Parliamentary Secretary will be able to deal with criticisms and other questions later on. I would like, however,
malâ fides1474Sir E. GEDDES
"In the opinion of the Cabinet this must be accepted with the qualification that should forthcoming increases of railway rates and charges consequent in large measure upon the increased cost of labour, not produce additional revenue, it would be impossible that the present level of wages could be maintained. In such circumstances, the improved standard of remuneration of railway-men, which the Government desire if possible to maintain, can only be maintained by hearty co-operation of the workers with the management, enabling such substantial economies in working to be effected as will adjust any adverse balance."1473: They covered six pages of print, and every grade was dealt with in detail. They gave an advance to the railwaymen, because it was due, and because railway wages had not been advanced as much as others. It was a Committee composed as fairly as such a body could be. They considered the matter in great detail; they heard evidence, and, with one exception, they reported unanimously. They gave the men a general advance, covering a very large number of grades, practically all the important grades, and they differentiated between town and country.
"In the opinion of the Cabinet this must be accepted with the qualification that should forthcoming increases of railway rates and charges consequent in large measure upon the increased cost of labour, not produce additional revenue, it would be impossible that the present level of wages could be maintained. In such circumstances, the improved standard of remuneration of railway-men, which the Government desire if possible to maintain, can only be maintained by hearty co-operation of the workers with the management, enabling such substantial economies in working to be effected as will adjust any adverse balance."1473Sir E. GEDDES
: The £4,000,000 were, of course, not in the calendar year. I dealt with the financial year, which is what my Estimates concern. In that there is £4,000,000, additional cost of arrears overtaken. That probably means something over £6,000,000 worth of work, because £2,000,000 is drawn out of reserve.Sir E. GEDDES
: I have not said anything about the Great Northern Railway; I have not mentioned it. My statement dealt with the whole of the railways. If the right hon. Baronet is going to take one railway, it must be understood that does not represent the whole.Sir E. GEDDES
: I should like to say I gave instructions, and I had every reason to believe that they were carried out, that a copy of the Report and the evidence should be sent to every railway company. I did not know it was not printed by the Stationery Office, but the Report is certainly on sale.Sir E. GEDDES
: Possibly I am under a misapprehension. Is that the Report itself?Sir E. GEDDES
: Yes, in the Vote Office. The volume has been issued with the Parliamentary papers, and I gave an instruction to the Stationery Office that they were to be available for Members.Sir E. GEDDES
: I have been able to read some of the speeches of the chairmen of the railway companies, but not all of them, as there are 114 controlled companies. I cannot, therefore, reply to the second part of the question, but if my hon. and gallant Friend is correct in his suggestion, I entirely disagree with it. As regards the last part of the question, I refer my hon. and gallant Friend to the recent statement of the Leader of the House on the subject.Sir E. GEDDES
: I think my answer covers that point.Sir E. GEDDES
: I do not know whether any of the articles in the Press are within the description of "inspired" articles, as my hon. Friend uses the word. If any such propaganda work is done by officers and servants of railway companies, the cost undoubtedly falls on the taxpayer.Sir E. GEDDES
: I am afraid I cannot answer that, for the railway companies must appoint their own representatives. Mr. Andrews is in no way representative of my Department.Sir E. GEDDES
: The preliminary classification of roads in England, Wales, and Scotland is practically complete, though some matters of detail have still to be discussed with a few highway authorities. An announcement with regard to the contribution from the Road Fund towards the cost of maintenance of classified roads will be made before the commencement of the next financial year.Sir E. GEDDES
: The late solicitor to the London and North Western Railway is not acting and has not at any time acted for the Ministry of Transport; he is employed by the railway companies, and has, with the honorary solicitor to a committee of the Railway Companies' Association, been in consultation, on behalf of the railway companies, with the Ministry of Transport on various points in connection with the forthcoming Bill. He is in no way connected with the Ministry of Transport, and I think that the statement made by my right hon. Friend the Member for the City of London on Friday was made in error.Sir E. GEDDES
: Mr. Andrews is in consultation with the Minister of Trans port, together with Mr. Dixon Davies, and both, as far as I am concerned, are solicitors representing the railway companies.Sir E. GEDDES
: This cannot conveniently be dealt with in question and answer, and I must ask the hon. Member to await for the Debate on the Estimates.Sir E. GEDDES
: We have to look at what will pay.Sir E. GEDDES
: Short-distance trains do not pay.Sir E. GEDDES
: Yes, it applies to all railways.Sir E. GEDDES
: I shall be glad if my hon. Friend will put down a question.Sir E. GEDDES
1397: Owing to the fact that certain important witnesses are still in hospital, the Chief Inspecting Officer of Railways has not yet been able to conclude his Inquiry into the circumstances attending this regrettable accident. The railway company, however, assure me
1397The MINISTER of TRANSPORT (Sir Eric Geddes)
1398: The railway companies propose to run during the Easter holidays special day excursion trains at a single fare for the double journey, and period excursions, outward journey on Thursday before Easter and return journey Monday or Tuesday after Easter, but not both days, at single faro and one-third for the double journey, with a minimum for period excursions of 15s. The excursion tickets will be valid in each direction by special trains only, but provision will be made in certain instances for excursion passengers to travel for some portion of the journey by ordinary trains connecting with places not served by the special excursion trains. It is the intention to give excursion facilities at Whitsuntide, and during the summer holidays in all possible cases where increased earnings will result, and
1398Sir E. GEDDES
: I have nothing to do with steamers unless they are owned by railway companies.Sir E. GEDDES
: As soon as arrangements are made.Sir E. GEDDES
: On a point of Order. Has this anything to do with the Vote? It seems to me it might just as well have taken place in 1811.Mr. HOHLER
26. 1402 asked the Prime Minister whether it is intended to adopt all or any of the recommendations of the Select Committee on Business Premises; and, if so, whether he will consider the necessity of passing any Bill founded thereon before the expiration of
1402Lieut.-Colonel HURST
: The Executive Committee. That is not all the railways.Sir H. MACKINDER
: No.H. MACKINDER
: What I said was that the reservations printed by two members showed that those two members wished to open up the agreement, but the majority of the Committee did not.Sir H. MACKINDER
: That is a separate question. That is on the storage agreement. I said there that we wanted to review it in order to see that money was not paid twice over.Sir H. MACKINDER
: May I state what it is that I wish to prove? I wish to show that, whereas the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir F. Banbury) said that all that the railways wanted was that the agreement should not be altered, I wish to show that, without altering the agreement, there are at least two readings of it—that there is a reading which has been made by the railwaymen right through the War and administered by them as a routine and that there is for the first time now available for the Ministry of Transport, the House of Commons and the country, a carefully prepared interpretation of that agreement—not a repudiation—which puts upon it a rather different meaning, and one which involves the large sum of money with which this Vote is concerned.Sir H. MACKINDER
: The right hon. Gentleman has heard the view of a prominent member of the Railway Executive that it was desirable that this matter should not be made a matter of litigation; and, in order that it might not be made a matter of litigation, it seemed to us desirable that the two interpretations should be before the country and before the railway directors, in order that they might be able to judge what course they will take.Sir H. MACKINDER
150815071506"We have no wish to take advantage of some imperfection in the formula.""I would ask that you really put it to the accountants through some Government representative. The Minister of Transport might take it up and really get to the bottom of the question whether there is some flaw in the formula that would give us more than the cost of the renewals, either executed or estimated, because it is certainly to the best of my knowledge and belief not intended to do that;"1505: As the right hon. Gentleman has told us, you cannot isolate this sum of £22,000,000. It is a portion of a great running concern, and in that £22,000,000 is a portion of the £90,000,000. I think, therefore, that I am
150815071506"We have no wish to take advantage of some imperfection in the formula.""I would ask that you really put it to the accountants through some Government representative. The Minister of Transport might take it up and really get to the bottom of the question whether there is some flaw in the formula that would give us more than the cost of the renewals, either executed or estimated, because it is certainly to the best of my knowledge and belief not intended to do that;"1505Sir H. MACKINDER
"My final word is the one wish that this will not end in litigation, and that by your efforts and our efforts that may be obviated.""Certainly, speaking as General Manager of the North Eastern Railway Company, I am confident that we shall, to use a phrase much in vogue now, 'explore every avenue' before appealing to the Courts for a decision upon our claims.""I have had more than once to refer to the possibility of litigation. That was inevitable because the agreement itself provides a tribunal to decide questions in difference. But may I say in matters such as these we have been discussing, involving national interests, that I believe litigation is as little desired by the railway companies as by those who represent the Government. It would be a sorry aftermath to our national struggle."1493sub judicesub judice,sub judicesub judice14921491: I hope the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down will forgive me if I do not follow him into the particular argument which has been his subject. I feel that I am no expert upon that, and that I should be merely wasting the time of the House if I went through the form of appearing to meet his points. But the right hon. Gentleman was replying to the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Banbury), and there are other portions of the right hon.
"My final word is the one wish that this will not end in litigation, and that by your efforts and our efforts that may be obviated.""Certainly, speaking as General Manager of the North Eastern Railway Company, I am confident that we shall, to use a phrase much in vogue now, 'explore every avenue' before appealing to the Courts for a decision upon our claims.""I have had more than once to refer to the possibility of litigation. That was inevitable because the agreement itself provides a tribunal to decide questions in difference. But may I say in matters such as these we have been discussing, involving national interests, that I believe litigation is as little desired by the railway companies as by those who represent the Government. It would be a sorry aftermath to our national struggle."1493sub judicesub judice,sub judicesub judice14921491Sir H. MACKINDER
: I am quoting from the Minutes of Evidence given before the Colwyn Commission.Sir H. MACKINDER
14971496: May I just state where I am in my argument, because it is a little difficult in view of these points of Order. The position to which I have arrived is that most certainly there are legal rights, but you have to ascertain them. I take it that the law holds that whenever two parties have been for long in relationship with one another there must be rights and obligations between them. But when you come to large questions of this kind the difficulty is to ascertain those rights. Of course, you may obtain an opinion from a lawyer. It is not worth much as a rule unless it is paid for, and even then it is only an opinion, and you cannot test the value of it until you have put it against other opinions in litigation. After spending some five months considering these agreements, with all the greater issues involved, if you are going to attempt to ascertain the legal rights then you are in for litigation on a very great scale. I have quoted from the evidence a statement of Sir Alexander Butterworth, saying that he would explore all avenues to avoid that, and I have
14971496Sir H. MACKINDER
15031502"Questions may arise as to the amount to be expended on the maintenance and renewal of way and works, or rolling stock. Under these heads it will not be open to a company to include in its working expenses any greater sum than is required to maintain its works and plant in an efficient condition, including due allowance for renewals, and if the expenditure of any company upon any item of maintenance exceeds the corresponding figure in the previous year the Government will no doubt, in the absence of special justification, expect it to be shown that the additional expenditure was rendered necessary by their requirements, or by the exceptional character or quantity of the traffic carried during the period of Government control."150115001499"I think we have to find out whether these agreements are really in the interests of the State. If we say they are not in the interests of the State, then we have to consider whether they should be carried out.": It seems to me that this is an attempt to prevent me replying of exactly a similar character to that which has been going on in the Press, and in the speeches of the chairmen of railway companies. I feel that in commenting on this agreement, and using the knowledge I have obtained, and in view of the prejudice which has been accumulated outside against this report, I am entitled to say a few words about the character of the inquiry out of which that Report has come. It seems to me that the order has gone out that it was to be burked from some central source. It seems that there is not to be a frontal attack, but a general concensus of plans to outflank that report by attacking the constitution of the committee or by plastering it over with the word "repudiation." I want to refer to one episode early in the inquiry. There has been quoted an answer given in the evidence to this effect:
15031502"Questions may arise as to the amount to be expended on the maintenance and renewal of way and works, or rolling stock. Under these heads it will not be open to a company to include in its working expenses any greater sum than is required to maintain its works and plant in an efficient condition, including due allowance for renewals, and if the expenditure of any company upon any item of maintenance exceeds the corresponding figure in the previous year the Government will no doubt, in the absence of special justification, expect it to be shown that the additional expenditure was rendered necessary by their requirements, or by the exceptional character or quantity of the traffic carried during the period of Government control."150115001499"I think we have to find out whether these agreements are really in the interests of the State. If we say they are not in the interests of the State, then we have to consider whether they should be carried out."Sir H. MACKINDER
"tenacious insistence upon documentary rights.": I have just been looking at this Blue Book. There is no number upon it, but there is an extraordinary price upon it—25s. net. I suppose that is the pressure for economy. I submit, however, that a Member of the Committee must, if we are to arrive at any rational result in this House, be at liberty to quote from evidence given before a Commission and published in a Blue Book which, whether distributed to this House or not, is officially published and on sale. Just now I pointed to the fact that Lord Colwyn and Sir Alexander Butterworth agreed that litigation was undesirable, and I wish to say this, that we on the Colwyn Committee felt very strongly that that was the spirit in which we ought to go on with our work. In our Report we have used a phrase which has been much quoted outside, and which has been picked out from our cake like a plum, and the public asked to believe that everything was up to sample—that is a phrase in which occur the words:
"tenacious insistence upon documentary rights."Sir H. MACKINDER
: No.Sir H. MACKINDER
: Well, I was a member of the Colwyn Commission.Sir H. MACKINDER
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say what is the permanent population of these buildings?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Seeing the enormous importance of this question, could not the right hon. Gentleman spare a Member of the Cabinet to go over to make first-hand inquiries?Sir H. BRITTAIN
43.  asked the Prime Minister what methods, if any, are being adopted to discover from inquiries on the spot the actual internal conditions of Germany with a view to obtaining the fullest information in regard to her ability to discharge her debts to the Allies?Sir. H. BRITTAIN
: Are we not sending out to India a Viceroy with a great deal more knowledge of law than the Secretary of State?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Will you not have to await Lord Milner's return?Sir H. BRITTAIN
42.  asked the Prime Minister whether he can inform the House as to the amount of taxation imposed upon wine, beer, and tobacco in Germany; and how it compares with the taxation upon similar commodities in this country?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman answer for those steamers, of which there are many, owned by railway companies?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Is it not to our interest to encourage Herr Stinnes to make this contract with Russia? It may help Germany to pay something by way of reparation.Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Am I to understand that it is in order to save money so lavishly spent in other directions that the right hon. Gentleman is defending his exclusion of the public from the use of St. James's Park?Sir H. CRAIK
76.  asked the First Commissioner of Works if he can name a date when the buildings which have so long disfigured St. James's Park will be removed; when the paths shall be restored to the use of pedestrians and wheeled vehicles excluded; and when the large population living in narrow and confined streets in the neighbourhood shall regain their inheritance in this park as a means of health, of which they have so long been deprived?Sir H. CRAIK
75.  asked the First Commissioner of Works whether he can fix a date when the allotment holders shall give up their occupation of certain parts of the King's Park, Edinburgh; and when these grounds shall be restored to the free use and enjoyment of the people of Edinburgh?Sir H. CRAIK
: Is the right hon. Gentleman contemplating the saving of money by not surrendering parks to the use of which the public have been entitled from time immemorial?Sir H. CRAIK
: Assuming that that is the proper policy, do the Government mean to introduce a Bill?Sir F. FLANNERY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say if legislation will be introduced dealing with this question?Sir FORTESCUE FLANNERY
: I was asking about the Report.Mr. MARRIOTT
: Are these Minutes procurable in the Vote Office?Mr. MARRIOTT
: What is the hon. Gentleman quoting from? From a Report?Mr. MARRIOTT
: I could not get a copy at the end of last week.Mr. MARRIOTT
: Not for the preparation of statistics?Mr. MARRIOTT
: Surplus to what?Mr. MARRIOTT
1512: I agree with the Chair that there has been introduced into this Debate a good deal of irrelevant matter. There is really before the Committee a perfectly simple issue and that is whether the House is to enable the Government to fulfil its obligations to the railway companies. The Government is asking the Committee to vote £21,000,000 in order that it may fulfil those obligations. Two very important speeches have been delivered from the other aide of the House. My hon. Friend who has just sat down (Sir H. Mackinder) has given to the House a most elaborate vindication of the Report of a very important Committee. I want to know from the responsible Minister why, precisely, that Committee was appointed at all? We have heard from the hon. Member opposite (Sir H. Mackinder) what he conceived to be the functions of the Committee, but I want to know why the right hon. Gentleman below me (Sir E. Geddes) appointed that Committee in the first
1512Mr. MARRIOTT
: I am very much obliged to you, Sir. I will do my utmost to keep within your ruling, but you will appreciate the difficulty in which hon. Members have been placed, first by the initial speech of the Minister, then by the speech addressed to the Committee from the other side of the House, and—Mr. MARRIOTT
15171516: Yes, and I am sure they would be very competent, or, at least, so I judge from what I have heard this afternoon. Whatever the management in the future, into the hands of whomsoever it may be vested, they will
15171516Mr. MARRIOTT
1515: That is no fault of mine. I was extremely anxious to obtain a copy of the evidence, and was unable to do so in the Vote Office. From that evidence the hon. Member opposite (Sir H. Mackinder) quoted repeatedly in the course of his speech, but I am compelled to fall back upon the report of the Committee, and not the evidence. However, I will leave that point to be elaborated by someone who is more skilled in meeting the directions of the Chair than I am. But in passing away from the whole question of the Colwyn Report I want to say that I feel that the introduction to this Debate of the findings of that Committee has placed the railway companies in a position of grave disadvantage. Now I come to the speech made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Derby (Mr J. H. Thomas). What was the gist of that speech? He began by saying, and I very cordially assent to that, that this matter was to be regarded from three points of view, first, the point of view of the railway shareholders; second, the point of view of the railway employés; and third, the point of view of the State, that is to say, of the community and the taxpayer. I entirely agree. I wish to emphasise this with all the earnestness at my command, that the paramount interest in this matter is not that of the railway world and is not that of the railway shareholder, but the paramount interest is that of the taxpayer and of the community at large. It is from that point of view that I desire to say a word or two with regard to the speech of the hon. Member for Derby. He was, and I quite understand it, mainly, or very largely, concerned with the question of wages.1515Mr. MARRIOTT
: I am in the recollection of the Committee, and the hon. Member did use the term "review the agreements."Mr. MARRIOTT
: So I understood him.Mr. MARRIOTT
"realised this spirit to the full, a spirit which was consistently exhibited in circular letters issued from time to time to the individual companies.": Yes—
"realised this spirit to the full, a spirit which was consistently exhibited in circular letters issued from time to time to the individual companies."Mr. MARRIOTT
"We desire unequivocally to record our opinion that throughout these negotiations the members of the Railway Executive Committee realised this spirit to the full—"1513"And in a circular letter dated 13th August, 1914, the Railway Executive Committee reported their view of the position in the following terms: 'It is hardly necessary to point out that the arrangement is one which, in spite of its great convenience, both to themselves and the companies, the Government could not have agreed to had they not been assured of the absolute good faith of the companies, and had they not felt certain that they could rely on all officers of the companies concerned acting loyally up to the spirit of that arrangement.'""That the nature of the agreement into, which the Government had entered was such as to impose a position of trust on the companies.: I fully appreciate, if I may respectfully say so, your difficulty in the matter, and I hope that you appreciate mine, which is to attempt to answer to some extent a speech of over an hour's duration delivered from the other side of the House. I do not for one moment suggest that it was the object of the speech, but I do suggest that no one who listened to that speech could draw any other conclusion than that the effect of the speech, whatever the purpose, will be very gravely to prejudice the position of the railway companies in the whole of this matter. That is the position which I am venturing to put before this Committee. The Colwyn Committee and the speech of my hon. Friend opposite have created, either intentionally or not, an atmosphere which is prejudicial, I venture to say, to a fair consideration of the fair claims of the railway companies. I know that the Colwyn Committee put in its Report many congratulatory phrases. For example, I read that it has recognised from the outset:
"We desire unequivocally to record our opinion that throughout these negotiations the members of the Railway Executive Committee realised this spirit to the full—"1513"And in a circular letter dated 13th August, 1914, the Railway Executive Committee reported their view of the position in the following terms: 'It is hardly necessary to point out that the arrangement is one which, in spite of its great convenience, both to themselves and the companies, the Government could not have agreed to had they not been assured of the absolute good faith of the companies, and had they not felt certain that they could rely on all officers of the companies concerned acting loyally up to the spirit of that arrangement.'""That the nature of the agreement into, which the Government had entered was such as to impose a position of trust on the companies.Mr. MARRIOTT
 asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he has received cabled representations from the Attorney-General of Ontario, the Commissioner of Parks of Toronto, and other Canadian authorities, respecting Charles Tellett, the Woolwich ex-service man, formerly of the Canadian Expeditionary Force, who was sentenced to be hanged to-morrow, Tuesday; whether this cabled Canadian information testifies to the excellent character of Tellett in his former Canadian occupations, and especially to the existence in Canada of ample proof that injuries sustained in the War have rendered this man unaccountable for his actions at times; and whether sufficient time will be granted to permit of the arrival of this fresh Canadian evidence, so that it may be taken fully into consideration?(by Private Notice)Mr. HURD
: Will the right hon. Gentleman himself, before coming to his final decision in the matter, give an opportunity for this further Canadian evidence to reach him?Mr. HURD
: Will the right hon. Gentleman himself defer any final action in the matter until he has received this further Canadian information?Mr. HURD
37.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is now able to supplement his statement of 23rd December last and announce that the German Government have taken steps to carry out the terms of the Peace Treaty respecting emigrant traffic and especially to prevent the renewal of the scandal of emigrant control stations and the arbitrary and monopolistic action of German shipping companies in respect of transmigrants from or to Central and Eastern Europe?Mr. HURD
: Is this examination being made by us?Mr. HURD
: May I ask whether, in the Bill the right hon. Gentleman is going to introduce, the industries referred to in Question 14 of my hon. and gallant Friend will be included?Sir P. MAGNUS
: I do not think it is desirable to let the cat out of the bag too soon.Sir R. HORNE
: I shall have sufficient information for the proposals which I shall make.Sir R. HORNE
: The list does show what the Government has done in the way of giving grants-in-aid to various industries. I do not say it covers every possible form of assistance which might have been given.Sir R. HORNE
: So far as financial assistance is concerned, I would call attention to Return No. 180, dated 31st July, 1920, which gives particulars of the public money invested by the Government at that date in registered companies carrying on various industries. The dye industry is receiving assistance in accordance with the scheme outlined in the White Paper (Cd. 9194 of 1918), and particulars as to the grants and loans made were given in this House on the 6th December last, in reply to a question by the hon. Member for West Derbyshire. I am sending the hon. Member copies of these papers and of the question and answer referred to. As regards assistance by way of legislation, I may point out, so far as the Board of Trade are concerned, that the dye industry has been dealt with by the Act passed last Session, and the Bill referred to in the King's Speech will contain the proposals of the Government in relation to other industries.Sir R. HORNE
1389: I am informed by the Ministry of Labour that no discharges of cement makers in the Gravesend district have been notified to them, although there have been a few discharges of cement barrel makers owing to the recent
1389Sir R. HORNE
: As my hon. and gallant Friend will appreciate, it is impossible for me to disclose, the provisions of a Bill before its introduction; but I can assure him that the interests of the consumer will be fully considered in any legislation.Sir R. HORNE
: I am certainly prepared to consider the consumer in any particular capacity.Sir R. HORNE
: Of course, so far as the Government officials are concerned, they will only give such aid as is required of them. I perfectly appreciate my hon. and gallant Friend's point about this, and I am anxious the consumers' interests should be sufficiently considered.Sir R. HORNE
: It has been stated that a contract has been concluded between the Russian Trade Delegation and a Swedish syndicate for the supply of agricultural machinery, but I understand that deliveries have been suspended. I am also informed that some agricultural machinery has been shipped from German ports to Reval, in transit to Russia. I further understand that certain British firms have been approached by the Russian Trade Delegation in connection with agricultural machinery. As regards the last part of the question, I am notable to add anything to the reply given by the Prime Minister on the 17th February, a copy of which I am sending to the hon. Member.Sir R. HORNE
: Yes, there are some. I cannot tell the particular localities in which they are, but there are some of them.Sir R. HORNE
: Of course, trade depends upon people selling and people buying. If people are not in a position to pay for what they buy, you cannot carry on trade.Sir R. HORNE
: I have been asked to reply. I have seen a statement in the Press to the effect indicated in the first part of the answer. As regards the second part, I am not able to add anything to the reply given by the Prime Minister on 17th February to the hon. Members for East Islington and North Lambeth, a copy of which I am sending to the hon. and gallant Member.Sir R. HORNE
: As it at present stands, the Act ceases automatically on the 19th May.Sir R. HORNE
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. The Central Committee, established under the Profiteering Acts, employ a staff which at present numbers 79, and the cost for the 12 months ending the 31st January, 1921. was £34,176 6s. (not including stationery, office rent, and lighting). The Profiteering Acts expire on the 19th May next, and in the meantime in carrying out the work of the Committee every regard is had to the necessity for economy.Sir R. HORNE
: I shall very carefully consider, especially in view of recent happenings, what legislation will be possible, but I am quite clearly of opinion that it cannot be done by restricting the use of the word "bank." It must be done in regard to such investigations and regulations as may be made with regard to the carrying on of banking business.Sir R. HORNE
: I am at present in consultation with the leading bankers upon the question.Sir R. HORNE
: I will communicate with the shipowners concerned in regard to the instances mentioned by my hon. Friend, and will inform him of the result.Sir R. HORNE
: I was not aware of the facts alleged by my hon. Friend, but I do not think that I can take any action in the matter.Sir R. HORNE
: I daresay hon. Members of the House will be very well able to apply their own minds to the problem without any such elaborate investigation, and at such expense, as my hon. and gallant Friend suggests.Sir R. HORNE
: At the outbreak of war a number of different industries were found to be unable to furnish adequate supplies for the essential task of war and the maintenance of the life of the country. State support was given in various ways, by grants or loans of money, by Government investment, by affording relative priority of material and transport, and by other means. In view of the great number and variety of these operations, and of the large number of Government Departments concerned, the details required could be compiled only with great difficulty and at great expense.Sir R. HORNE
: A special import licence is required for the importation of each consignment of goods into Germany, except in the case of a few commodities. These restrictive measures apply equally to all countries, subject to Germany's Treaty obligation to admit certain goods from Luxemburg, Alsace Lorraine, the Saar Basin, and those parts of Poland which were German before the War.Sir R. HORNE
: Some financial assistance was given during the War to the British potash industry, because an increased production of potash in this country was required in the interests of agriculture and of various manufactures such as optical glass and certain chemicals.Sir R. HORNE
: No, my attention has not been specially drawn to any recent infringements, except those which, as I say, are being investigated at the present time.Sir R. HORNE
1386: It is open to any person to prosecute under the Merchandise Marks Acts without reference to the Board of Trade, and I have no complete record of such prosecutions. Prosecutions of the Staines Kitchen
1386Sir R. HORNE
: I think probably it is my duty to be more informed upon the question than the Prime Minister, and the question should be addressed to me. As far as we know, the representative of Russia in this matter, M. Krassin, is now on his way to this country, and negotiations will be taken up afresh when he arrives.Sir R. HORNE
33.  asked the Prime Minister whether his attention has been called to a statement to the effect that a proposal has been put forward by the First Commissioner of Works for the employment of direct labour on the upkeep and repairs of public buildings, instead of having the work performed by contract, as hitherto; and whether, seeing that this proposal would entail a considerable increase in the personnel of the Works Department, he will give the House of Commons an opportunity of debating the scheme before it is adopted?Lieut. - Colonel Sir RAYMOND GREENE
73.  asked the Minister of Agriculture whether, in view of the, widespread uneasiness as to the conditions under which the Continental traffic in worn-out horses is being carried on, he would take steps to secure an independent report upon the manner in which the Regulations contained in the Exportation of Horses Act, 1914, and the Horses (Importation and Transit) Order of 1913 are being carried out?Sir RAYMOND GREENE
53.  asked the Prime Minister whether he will appoint a Select Committee to inquire into and report as to the present position of the Secretary of State for India in relation to Parliament, having regard to the changes effected by the Government of India Act, and in particular as to his powers of superintendence, direction, and control over the action of States Governors?Sir W. DAVISON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the House was unable last week to obtain any information from the Secretary of State for India as to certain actions of one of the State Governors, and is he aware that the Government of India Act specially says that whereas the action of Parliament in such matters—Sir W. DAVISON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the Secretary of State for India in July last gave an assurance that an amnesty would be granted to certain political offenders in India, but that they would not be pardoned, and that recently the Viceroy pardoned these offenders, thus enabling them to sit on the new Councils? Was that done without the knowledge and the approval of the Secretary of State? Is that not undesirable, seeing that the Imperial Parliament is responsible for law and order?Sir W. DAVISON
52. 1416 asked the Prime Minister whether he will see that in the
1416Sir W. DAVISON
51.  asked the Prime Minister what would be the financial effect to this and other countries if the indebtedness of our late Allies in the War to this country were to be cancelled; whether such a cancellation of debt would in any way remedy Continental exchanges; whether it is expected that this indebtedness will ever be paid off; whether any of the debt has as yet been paid off; and, if not, whether arrangements have been made for this?Viscount CURZON
: Will the British representative be a legal or a naval man?Captain Viscount CURZON
: When does the right hon. Gentleman expect to be able to give the details of the classification?Viscount CURZON
63.  asked the Minister of Transport when the classification of roads throughout the country will be complete, and when he expects to be able to make any announcement?Viscount CURZON
1. 1574 asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign
1574Lieut.-Colonel Sir F. HALL
13.  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he is aware that five German passenger and cargo steamers of over 1,600 tons gross register, trading in the Argentine, and belonging to the Hamburg South American Company, have been transferred by one Delfino, the representative of that company in the Argentine, to a new Argentine company formed for the purpose, with a view to avoiding the surrender of these vessels to the Reparation Commission of the Allies under the Treaty of Versailles; whether his Department and the Ministry of Shipping had their attention drawn to the matter as long ago as March, 1919; if warning was later given to those Departments that evasion by the Germans of their Treaty obligations in this manner was likely; whether the prestige of the Allies in South America is liable to suffer seriously if the Germans are allowed thus openly to evade the Treaty provisions; and what steps it is proposed to take to set matters right?Sir F. HALL
: As the hon. and gallant Gentleman says that the Government are watching this project, is he aware that repeated notification has been given to the various Departments of the Government, including the Foreign Office and the. Department which he represents, calling attention to the fact that this would happen; and is the Government aware that owing to the slackness of the various Departments these steamers are being transferred practically to the German Government or under German management?Sir F. HALL
: As the hon. and gallanSir F. HALL
: I beg to give notice that I will repeat this question again in a week or two weeks' time.Sir F. HALL
53. 1579 asked the Prime Minister if his attention has been called to the proposal introduced into the American Senate that the United States should intervene to limit the German indemnity to £3,000,000,000, part of which should be regarded as wiped out by the loss of the German trans-Atlantic cables and African Colonies, which should pass to America in settlement of the Allies' debt; and whether, notwithstanding the
1579Sir F. HALL
: With the greatest of pleasure.Sir F. HALL
3. 1580 asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether His Majesty's Government has received from its representatives in Manchuria any reports relating to the massacres of Koreans and others in Chientao, Manchuria, in October and November, 1920; whether these reports show that Japanese troops on non-Japanese territories have been engaged in military operations, involving great loss of life and wanton destruction of property; whether the officers in command of these forces have discriminated against Christians in these operations, and have burnt Church property over a wide area; whether His Majesty's Government has received any report of the facts in the case of the murder on 29th–30th October of a Christian colporteur of Sulchilgo without even a form of trial; whether His Majesty's Government accepts the explanation issued by Major-General Sato, on behalf of the Japanese War Office, namely, that the operations in the Chientao district have been rendered necessary because the Chinese authorities had expressed anxiety that the Japanese should stamp out outlawry and Korean plots as speedily as possible and then withdraw their forces; whether such operations are defended officially regardless of the fact that many innocent
1580Mr. FREDERICK GREEN
: If the right hon. Gentleman has not received any notification, and has not seen any report, will he ascertain whether the statement in this question is correct or otherwise?Sir F. HALL
: Is it not a fact that these operations of Japan have taken place really in Chinese territory, and how is it that one great State can invade the territory of another without some more general protest?Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: May I ask whether His Majesty's Government has any concern in this matter, unless a British subject is maltreated?Sir J. D. REES
10.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the Government of the United States of America has protested against the acquiring by a British company of an oil concession in Costa Rica; if so, whether he can state the grounds for the protest; and if he is prepared to support legitimate British enterprise in a friendly country?Major C. LOWTHER
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether the recent trouble between Panama and Costa Rica was caused by this very question of the oil concession, and whether the territory seized by Costa Rica is territory in which oil has been found?Major LOWTHER
11.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs what are the reasons which prompt His Majesty's Government in delaying the recognition of the popularly and legally elected Government of Mexico; whether he is aware that this delay is causing prejudice to British interests in that Republic; and whether he can assure the House that the non-recognition of Mexico is in no way caused by the policy or attitude of the United States of America?Major LOWTHER
: Will the right hon. Gentleman bear in mind the necessity of continuing negotiations for abolishing the visa altogether?Lieut.-Colonel A. MURRAY
: Is the right hon. Gentle-aware that the President of the Board of Trade intimated on the reassembling of Parliament that the Government would bring in a Bill to deal with the exchange system and what has been done in that matter?Sir F. HALL
: Is not the right hon. Gentleman as head of the War Office prepared to lay it down that the bravo continue to deserve the fair?Sir J. D. REES
37.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether any estimate has been made of the total cost of the proposed subsidy of motor lorries in the event of their being required for purposes of war?Mr. G. LOCKER LAMPSON
: How many lorries is it proposed to subsidise?Captain TERRELL
: How can the right hon. Gentleman tell the cost if he does not know the number?Captain TERRELL
: Will the right hon. Gentleman promise to advise the Department not to proceed further with this, as I should imagine it is decidedly against the opinion of the whole House?Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: Cannot the right hon. Gentleman rely on getting through the police a thousand or two or three thousand lorries in less than two hours?Lieut.-Colonel WARD
: Is not the Regulation due to the fact that so many people drink more than they can pay for?Dr. MURRAY
: May I ask when the Government intend to introduce the Licensing Bill?Captain TERRELL
: May I ask the Leader of the House?Captain TERRELL
: In the case of goods cleared from bond, records are kept neither of the country of consignment nor of the values, and I regret, therefore, that I cannot supply my hon. and gallant Friend with the information he desires. As regards Question No. 58, I would refer him to my reply to the hon. Member for Wimbledon (Mr. Hood) on the 23rd February last.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
56.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he has now received the revised Report of the Economy Committee on the staffing, etc., at the Ministry of Munitions; and, if so, whether he will publish it?Captain TUDOR-REES
: My predecessors and I have carefully considered the merits and demerits of a turnover tax on more than one occasion. I cannot, of course, enter upon them in reply to a question, but I may say that, whatever be the merits of such a tax, I do not consider the present moment favourable for introducing a new tax on trading transactions.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I have never known the British industrial community to be unanimous in favour of anything.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
1603: As I informed my hon. Friend on Tuesday last, France and Italy applied for and received loans direct from the United States Government after the entry of the United States Government into the War. While His Majesty's Government would have much preferred a system under which they would have been relieved from the
1603Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I have tried to explain to my hon. Friend, but I have not succeeded in making it clear to him that the Allies did borrow from the United States for their expenditure in America. They borrowed from us for their expenditure elsewhere than in the United States of America. We might have avoided any necessity for borrowing from the United States if our whole credit had been free to meet our own needs, and if we had not used part of our credit to come to the assistance of our Allies.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
bonâ fide: I do not know what the hon. Gentleman means by bonâ fideMr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I ought not to answer questions of this kind without notice. I hope my hon. Friend will put his question on the Paper.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: The number of manual wage-earners in South Wales who were, during the calendar year 1920, summoned for non-payment of Income Tax, was approximately 52,500, and of these about 35,000 were colliers. It cannot be traced that any one of these taxpayers was earning as much as £1,000 a year, and while in a number of cases colliers were in receipt of earnings amounting to £700 or £800 a year, the general average of their earnings was much below those figures. There are in South Wales, as in other parts of the country, a number of cases in which there are arrears of Income Tax due from manual wage-earners, and the collection of tax in these cases is proceeding in the manner provided by law.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Yes, that was, I think, the original proposal of my predecessor, Mr. McKenna, when the tax was first applied to manual wage earners. It met with strong opposition from both the workmen and the employers. It was examined by the Royal Commission on Income Tax and they said it would be inexpedient to adopt that system until there had been a sensible change of opinion among those affected.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Does not the right hon. Gentleman think it is nearly time, seeing that miners in South Wales earn £700 and £800 a year, to increase the wages of poor Members who have to depend on this House for the miserable £400 they receive?Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: Is it not a fact that only a small number of miners earned £700 and £800 because they would not work more than three or four days a week?Sir F. HALL
: I do not think the failure to pay arises from that, as the hon. Member knows from the correspondence I have had with hon. Members representing Wales. I would gladly have the forms printed also in Welsh if administratively I could carry it out, but the pressure on the Inland Revenue officials at present is so great that I cannot add to their difficulties.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I hope you and the House will excuse me from taking further part in the Debate.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
1606: I cannot undertake to include in the Revenue Bill, which I hope to introduce at an early date, proposals to deal with the particular matter to which my hon. Friend refers, or with the other recommendations of the Royal Commission on the subject of repairs to property. I would, however, remind my hon. Friend that under the provisions of Rule 8 of No. V in Schedule A of the Income Tax Act, 1918, as amended by Section 19 of the Finance Act, 1919, the property owners now
1606Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
65.  asked the Home Secretary whether his attention has been drawn to allegations that men in full employment are taking part in unemployed processions with the object of sharing in the proceeds of the collections made; and whether he will take steps, in conjunction with the Ministry of Labour, to supervise street collections for the unemployed, and to ensure that a participation in the proceeds is only allowed to persons genuinely out of work and who an; British subjects?Lieut - Colonel GUINNESS
: What steps are taken to prevent people who are not out of work joining these processions?Lieut.-Colonel GUINNESS
67.  asked the Home Secretary whether, with regard to the introduction of summer time for this year, he has given full consideration to the views of the agricultural community in Scotland on the matter; whether he has been in consultation with the Secretary for Scotland as to these views and, if so, with what result; and whether it is proposed to introduce legislation for the fixing of summer time?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: Will the right hon. Gentleman answer the last paragraph, whether it is proposed to introduce legislation?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: How does the right hon. Gentleman reconcile that with the statement made by his Under-Secretary last year to the effect that legislation would be introduced this Session?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
: Is not this the shortest way of turning land back to grass?Lieut.-Colonel MURRAY
72.  asked the Secretary for Scotland what action has been, or will be, taken, and when, to deal with the intolerable situation as regards assessments upon rural parishes which has arisen in Scotland owing to the enforcement of the Education Act, 1918?Sir J. D. REES
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether in the meantime these enormous rates, sometimes 700 or 800 per cent, above the past rates, will continue to be due or leviable?Sir J. D. REES
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say when he is asking this Committee to report, because the matter is urgent; and will he ask them to report within a month or two months?Sir J. HOPE
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that already three months have elapsed since the Scottish Members pressed for the appointment of the Committee, and it has not yet been appointed?Sir J. HOPE
: Can the rates be suspended until the Committee reports?Sir J. D. REES
: How does the right hon. Gentleman propose to give relief pending the Report of the Committee?Sir J. HOPE
1611by Private Notice (1611by Private NoticeLieut.-Commander KEN WORTHY
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. WALSH
: Will not the difficulties of the Indian Governors, which are already sufficient, be immensely increased if the House is to discuss and criticise their appointments of Ministers?Sir J. D. REES
167916781677"to promote efficiency and economy, a closer co-operation between the Air Force and civilian air services and aircraft manufacturers is essential.": I beg to move, to leave out from the word "That" to the end of the Question, and to add instead thereof the words
167916781677"to promote efficiency and economy, a closer co-operation between the Air Force and civilian air services and aircraft manufacturers is essential."Colonel NEWMAN
16991698: Well, ten days is something. The passengers would come from Australia to Ceylon, take the railway from Ceylon to Karachi, fly to Egypt, and then come by boat and train in the usual way. Surely in the favourable atmosphere of an eastern clime it would be quite simple to have a route from Karachi to Ceylon, and save another week or so in the route from, the underworld to this country. I hope the right hon. Gentleman in Egypt will try to lay the foundation for an air service between Egypt and Karachi as an experiment. The importance of the Air Force to this
16991698Mr. DENNISS
Laughter.1700: The right hon. Gentleman agrees, and I am glad to hear him say so. At the present time the whole of this country, leaving out Ireland, which has three squadrons, has only three or four squadrons to defend it. The rest of the squadrons are scattered all over the world. It is, therefore, the very minimum force that it is possible for us to have. Now I come to the real point of my speech, and that is, What would happen if we were plunged into another war in the next few years? How would the right hon. Gentleman expand the Air Force? From what quarter would he draw his reserves? Can he answer that question? I shall be very much surprised if he can, unless he answers it in this way: that he would look to the creation of a large and successful mercantile air fleet in the same way that the Navy looked upon our immense mercantile marine, which comprised more than one-half of the total tonnage of the world, as the source from which to draw good men. Without them where should we get our reserve of pilots, our mechanics, our designers, our factories ready to produce the large amount of aeroplanes that would be required?Laughter.1700Mr. DENNISS
: The news service in the "Times" is the most reliable of any paper. It was stated in the "Times" that the "Chicago Tribune" the other day said that those battleships which America is building, the Navy which she is building—Mr. DENNISS
1701: I bow to your ruling, Sir. I quite agree that I was going a little wide of the subject, but it is in a sense germane. I apologise if I have gone too far, but I will certainly get back into the air again. I wish that we could have a commercial air fleet which would provide a proper reserve for the defence of the country. Let us have if necessary a Supplementary Estimate for the purpose which I have mentioned. I say this because the Air Force is the most economical force which we can have. The right hon. Gentleman has admitted that it saves an enormous number of troops in the field, particularly in countries like Mesopotamia and India. So we might very well commend it to the country on the ground of economy. We want rapid communication between the different parts of the Empire, which might be of the greatest possible value in the future to the Empire and to this country. For that purpose it is unwise to find the right hon. Gentleman taking up a small Estimate of this kind for the commercial side of the Air Service. I hope that he will consider the whole matter, and take
1701Mr. DENNISS
: Next to yourself.Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: May I withdraw my Amendment, Sir?Colonel NEWMAN
1716: I wish to make a suggestion to the Committee which unfortunately did not occur to me soon enough when Mr. Speaker was in the Chair. The House heard the discussion about the absence of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Churchill) when the Report Stage of the Votes would be taken. He gave an explanation so complete, so full, and, I think, so fair, that I am not going to repeat what he said, except perhaps to remark that it is certainly not in any sense the fault of my right hon. Friend that it so happens that he will not be present for the two days. When the changes were made we had to decide what was to be done with the Air Force. My right hon. Friend had prepared the Estimates. We had discussed them many times in his presence at the Cabinet meeting and at the Finance Committee, and the Prime Minister thought, as I also thought, that obviously whatever happens later on, the right thing was that the Estimates should be explained by the Minister who prepared them and had taken the responsibility. When my right hon. Friend agreed to that we quite expected that it would be possible to have the necessary time before he went away. The Committee knows how we have been pressed with one thing or another which we did not anticipate, and which has made it impossible for him to be here to-morrow.1716Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
1717: My right hon. Friend the Minister for Air said that I used some words with regard to his conduct that were of an unfair character. That may have been so, but he certainly got back on me with full measure so far as any words to which he might take exception were concerned. However vigorously expressed they were, and however unfair he thought they were, it was a perfectly sound Parliamentary point which I made, and I am going to go on taking those points no matter what people say. It is the duty, especially of those who sit on this side of the House, to see that Parliament is fully protected in the exercise of its rights in its control over public expenditure. I will only add, that if my right hon. Friend was not occupying this dual position this difficulty would not have arisen. I am not at all anxious to do anything which would be in the least degree against the personal convenience of my right hon. Friend, nor do I wish to do anything which would appear to be meticulously hostile, if I may use the phrase, to the Leader of the House. I am very anxious, in the pursuit of the duties which fall to me and to others on this bench, to contest our position as fairly and vigorously as we can, but not to take too small points which would lead to unnecessary inconvenience to men engaged in the public service, or to put the
1717Sir D. MACLEAN
: If on Vote 5, the Air Ministry Vote, we could have, by the arrangement now proposed, the discussion which we should have had on Votes A and 1, I should say, speaking only for myself, that the suggestion is a reasonable one. Also it would be of advantage if it enabled the right hon. Gentleman to go to Egypt on the date named. It does not put him to a very great deal of inconvenience. It is owing to his dual office. He will have to be in Egypt because he is the Colonial Minister, and he will have to be here because he is the Air Minister. That is the whole difficulty, because he would not hand it over to somebody else. We do not want to inconvenience the right hon. Gentleman, but we think his position is inconvenient.Major-General SEELY
: Are we to take it, in view of what my right hon. Friend said, that the position my right hon. Friend holds with the two offices is a permanent one, or whether the whole position is still in suspense?Sir D. MACLEAN
1718: I understand—I was not present when my right hon. Friend (Mr. Churchill) spoke—that he made it quite plain, certainly it is his view as well as that of myself—that the whole matter is in suspense. For the
1718Mr. BONAR LAW
: Nearly every speech from the Opposition has been in favour of greater expenditure, and now there has been a suggestion made that a separate Ministry should be set up for the Air.Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: There is a separate Ministry now.Sir D. MACLEAN
: I know as much on this as the leader of the Opposition does.Lieut.-Colonel WARD
: Do not be impudent.Dr. MURRAY
: I think the hon. Member is much more in that way than I am. I have always dealt with an opponent perfectly fairly so far. There is a slight variation between impudence and impertinence, and probably the hon. Member would be able to explain on which side he is. The whole of the speeches to-day have been devoted to the idea that we ought to spend more. [HON. MEMBERS: "No, no."] Only one speech, that of the hon. Member for Thanet (Mr. E. Harmsworth) was in favour of reducing expenditure.Lieut.-Colonel WARD
: Quite incorrect.Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
1719: The speech of the hon. Member for Harrow (Mr. Mosley) was to the effect that we ought to spend at least another million in research work with reference to the science and technicality of aviation, and all the speeches have been delivered in that direction. I confess that even when the Labour men speak on some particular point it is money, more money. There is supposed to be a spirit of economy abroad, yet now attempts are being made to set up another Ministry, and the whole of the suggestion of the Opposition to-day is that there should be a Secretary of State for Air as well, I suppose, as a Secretary for War and a Chief of the Admiralty. That is the whole idea, and if the agitation by the Leader of the Opposition continues, that is what it is going to end in—an additional Ministry, with all the expenses attached to it. If this agitation is pursued, it must mean
1719Lieut.-Colonel WARD
1720: I have my view and the right hon. Gentleman can have his. I know perfectly well that this will be another job for someone else. That is the whole idea of it. You may camouflage it as much as you like, but that is the real centre of the whole thing. For this reason I protest absolutely that, so far as the discussion is concerned, it has been more against the man who occupies the position than against the dual position itself. It is much more a personal question, and therefore we are not concerned with it as Members of this House. Right hon. Gentlemen on opposite sides can make their arrangements as they like. The opinion of ordinary Members of the House is that there are quite enough Departments, and that the portion of the Air Force dealt with by the Navy should go with the Admiralty, and the land forces should go with the Army. The idea that there should be another Department, another Secretary of State, and another item of expense, added as a further burden to the people, is not what the private Member intends at all. I am certain we are not going to have it, and if there is any suggestion that the attacks on the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies are going to be used for the purpose of bolstering up another Department, both the Opposition and the Government too will be making the biggest mistake. The Air Force has got to be attached to one or other of the Departments. We are not going to have a separate Department without a struggle in this House. I hope the Leader of the House, in his statement to-night, in answer to the soft speech on the opposite side, does not mean that directly the Secretary of State for the Colonies comes back from Egypt that he will be asked to set up a separate Department. That is a suggestion that has been made all round the House to-day. I hope that the right hon. Gentleman the Leader of the House does not imagine that that will be acceptable to the House of Commons, either to the ordinary Member on this
1720Lieut.-Colonel WARD
: As we have not spoken a single word this afternoon, I think I am entitled, especially after the impassioned words of my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Stoke (Lieut.-Colonel Ward), to say that, so far as the Labour party is concerned, we have never had the slightest idea of urging a separate and distinct Department, but we had an idea that it was desirable that the right hon. Gentleman should not take with him the Air Ministry and the Colonies. Some of us last Session were a little uncertain as to whether he should have both the War Ministry and the Air Ministry. There is not a man in this House, or out of it— I say this with full sincerity—but who must admit the great abilities of the right hon. Gentleman. I leave it at that. But we were entitled to doubt whether even he could fill the two great posts. He himself, in that wonderful description this afternoon, pointed out to us the great elaboration and complexity of the duties that he had to supervise—54 trades, and so on. Surely we are entitled to consider whether it is a good thing for a Minister who is taking on an office which for five and twenty years, even before the Boer War, had become a highly responsible Department, and since the Boer War has become increasingly important, to also at the same time continue to hold the office of Air Minister. It has been all debated, and it has been debated in the best possible spirit. "The falling out of faithful friends is renewal of love," and I know two people who are all the better friends because of the little interlude this afternoon. If the Leader of the House says we can have a full and open Debate upon Vote 5 upon the Minister's return, then we all wish him well in the great venture he is taking, and hope he will be equally capable of defending his Department upon his return.Mr. STEPHEN WALSH
1721: I want to say something on Vote 4 where there is £3,000,000 to be spent on bricks and mortar. Part of my proposal will be to
1721Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: In accordance with precedent, I would be prepared, if these two Votes be disposed of to-night, to allow on Vote 5, or on whatever Vote may be selected as the first Vote, as full and wide a discussion as if it had taken place on Vote A.The CHAIRMAN
15.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Overseas Trade Department, if many cases have been brought to his notice, more especially in British Colonies and Dominions, of the loss to British trade of contracts obtained by foreign competitors who benefit by the rate of exchange?Captain R. TERRELL
19.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether arrangements have now been completed for the relief of all Indian units who have been more than three years away from India on service overseasColonel Sir CHARLES YATE
: Libelling your own nation.Colonel GREIG
170917081707: General Botha said that South Africa was saved for the Empire by three words, "Methods of barbarism." I hope we shall have saved this country something by protesting on these benches against one or two of the enormities that the hon. Gentleman opposite supports. May I ask the right hon. Gentleman the Minister for Air when he replies to tell me why he is spending money? Perhaps the Parliamentary Secretary will. Of course, it is
170917081707Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: The hon. and gallant Member for Stoke says that I have aroused ill-feeling. I do not know. I could show him a few scores of letters from a good many different countries thanking me for standing up for the oppressed.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
1706: I do not want to stand between the right hon. Gentleman and the House for very long, but I have one or two comments to make, and I should like him to hear them, as he will be away to-morrow. First of all, it is no good the last hon. Gentleman complaining about this expenditure. As an hon. Gentleman opposite said, with our present policy it is probably too small. We have only about four squadrons in this country, and they are insufficient for the defence of it. If we were suddenly involved in a European war, the squadrons in Ireland would have to be recalled, and if our present policy of being a benefactor all over the world, and trying to expand our Empire in every direction, is to be carried out, I think we have not a sufficient Air Force, and that the present
1706Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I was laughing at the allusion to the right hon. Gentleman and the "Times."Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: We have not had a word of explanation in this matter. I want to know whether this is the last of the expenditure on the Louth flood. No one begrudges the spending of money in relief of distressed Louth, but we ought to know whether this is a final bill.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Support the officer on the spot.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
:Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
5.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he is aware that out of the 17,000 Bulgarian officers and men taken prisoners to the west of Scopie by the French in the late War, and handed over to the Serbians, only 12,770 have been repatriated to Bulgaria; whether the Serbians report that there are no more Bulgarian prisoners of war on their territory; and whether it is possible to ascertain what has become of the 4,230 officers and men that make up the total number of Bulgarian prisoners that were handed over by the French?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
4.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs if he is aware that newspapers in the English language published in Egypt are still being rigidly censored, and are frequently refused permission to publish articles which have appeared in well-known British journals; that all news from Ireland is systematically censored or mutilated; whether he can state the total number of persons employed in Egypt in censoring the Press; and whether their salaries and expenses are paid by the British taxpayer or from Egyptian revenues?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
:
May I ask how the censoring of Irish news can have any effect on religious or racial feeling in Egypt?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Before this question is answered, may I ask if the Japanese Imperial Government have made any complaint to His Majesty's Government about similar occurrences in Ireland?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: It would be necessary to have vessels to carry the aeroplanes.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: The Prime Minister.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Perhaps an article in the "Sunday Pictorial."Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: What about the "Sunday Pictorial"?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
:Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: May I ask whether the Government have not yet realised that their scheme has proved a comparative failure, and whether, in view of the urgent need of markets, they will hasten their deliberations?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: It is all the stronger.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
1705: As far as the dual position of the right hon. Gentleman in the Colonial Office and the Air Office is concerned I think we have something to thank ourselves for. If he had not his interests in the Colonial Office to occupy him, we might find ourselves saddled with far greater Estimates than we have to-day. As regards the right hon. Gentleman not being present in Committee, I should like to add my protest to what we have just heard. Surely it is essential to the House of Commons to have the person responsible for the Estimates present, so that we can ask him questions and gather information concerning various items. I listened with some surprise to a speech by an hon. Member opposite who said we should have to prepare for another war which might come upon us in a few years. It must be obvious to the House that if we are to have another war in three or four years and we do not husband our financial resources, we shall not have the money for that war. If we had spent in 1914 as we are spending now I very much doubt whether we should have won the late War. The late War was won by the silver bullet—behind the scenes—as much as by the fighting forces in France, and it is essential for this country to husband its financial resources for any similar occasion. As regards these Estimates, the point I should like to criticise is the fact that they are bigger than last year's. I have listened to a great number of speeches this evening, and every Member has advocated more expenditure, in either one way or the other. [HON. MEMBERS: "No, no!"] Oh, yes. I am myself in the happy position of having never advocated any expenditure whatever in any speech in the House, and I hope I never shall. We have quite enough as it is at present without private Members advocating expenditure. This year we are asked to vote on these Estimates a net total, excluding War liability, of £16,940,000. Last year it was £14,998,230. So we are asked to vote an increase of almost £2,000,000. I know it is a new service, and I am just as keen on the Air Force, and on its being made a great arm of defence, as other hon. Members, but at this time, when our finances are in the state they are, I strongly deprecate spending more on the Air Force this year than we spent last year—on the actual running of the Air Force.1705Mr. E. HARMSWORTH
57 and 58. 1601 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer (1) whether he will give particulars as to the value and amount of cigars of Havana manufacture cleared from bond since the imposition of the additional Budget
1601Lieut.-Colonel JAMES
: I cannot agree that they have been transferred to the German flag. They are under the Agentine flag at present, and my hon. and gallant Friend will realise that when a country is involved which is not a signatory to the Treaty, it may be a somewhat delicate question, and I would rather not give an answer now.Colonel WILSON
1578: I really must disagree with my hon. and gallant Friend that it is due to any slackness on the
1578Colonel WILSON
: I have been asked to reply. I am aware of the circumstances connected with the five steamers which are referred to in the question, and the matter is being closely watched. The question as to the delivery of the steamers under the Treaty of Versailles is a matter for the Reparation Commission and is being dealt with by them.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of SHIPPING (Colonel Leslie Wilson)
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether the prices for New York telephone calls were taken at par of exchange or at present rates?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Is it not the fact that India is a self-governing Dominion?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
"Tell these 30 they are suspended, or if you prefer it, keep them on by not completing their accounts.": That quotation is not quite correct. General Tudor said:
"Tell these 30 they are suspended, or if you prefer it, keep them on by not completing their accounts."Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
1692"I have directed the Chief of the Air Staff to submit an alternative scheme for the control of Mesopotamia, the Air Force being the principal force or agency of control, while the Military and Naval forces on the ground and river would be an ancillary power. Up to the present, the general staff have not been able to offer any solution of the problem of Mesopotamia except by the employment of a military garrison, the cost of which will crush the country. I propose to invite as it were competitive tenders from the Air Staff."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 23rd February, 1920, col. 1354, Vol. 125.]: The right hon. Gentleman referred to the fact that this is a young service, and that we must not anticipate that everything connected with it will progress at the same speed as in the Army and in the Navy. Last year, in the course of his speech on the Air Estimates, he referred to the possibility of utilising aircraft where at present we have to use the forces of the Army and Navy, and it seems to me now that we should ask him to tell us what has been the result of his efforts in that direction. This is what he said on 25th February, 1920:
1692"I have directed the Chief of the Air Staff to submit an alternative scheme for the control of Mesopotamia, the Air Force being the principal force or agency of control, while the Military and Naval forces on the ground and river would be an ancillary power. Up to the present, the general staff have not been able to offer any solution of the problem of Mesopotamia except by the employment of a military garrison, the cost of which will crush the country. I propose to invite as it were competitive tenders from the Air Staff."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 23rd February, 1920, col. 1354, Vol. 125.]Lieut.-Colonel BURGOYNE
22.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether, in view of the reconstitution of the Territorial Army, he will consider the advisability of making its Director-General a member of the Army Council?Lieut.-Colonel POWNALL
: Of course we recognise that it is for the Chair to determine questions of Order, but I do not quite understand how this is a question of Order. It may or may not be desirable to interfere with transferred subjects, but it is for the House to consider the question; it is not a matter for the Chair.Lord HUGH CECIL
17631762: I find myself not quite in agreement either with the supporters or the opponents of this Motion After the lesson which my right hon. Friend has been trying to teach the Leader of the Opposition, I will do my best to see both sides or all sides of the lamentable position of affairs in Ireland. Under the ruling of the Chair we are not entitled to discuss that at length. No doubt there will be other opportunities. I feel very strongly that my right hon. Friend opposite is under a profound mis-
17631762Lord HUGH CECIL
1764: These are not my followers. I do not think that in this House the Government has received any unreasonable criticism. Outside this House I have seen a great many things said against the Government with which I thoroughly disagree. Inside this House I think the criticism has been moderate and reasonable. I am obliged to say that as long as the Government refuse an inquiry they throw a sinister light on the whole of the transactions, nominally in the vindication of law. Let us not be told, as my right hon. Friend has told us again to-night, that there are two sides in this matter, the side of the assassins and the side of the police. That is a false hypothesis, altogether. There are only two sides I recognise in Ireland in a matter of this kind, the sides of right and wrong, and everybody who commits a murder, or loots, or commits an act of lawless violence, whether in the police or in Sinn Fein or anywhere else, is the enemy of God and of this country. I care nothing for those claptrap appeals which the Government are never tired of making to stand by brave men—[HON. MEMBERS: "Oh, oh!"]. They are dishonouring the country over which they preside. [HON. MEMBERS: "Give us an example!"] No, I will not give an example. What I care about is the vindication of God's Commandments in this case. I certainly do not want to make anything which would in any case be an unfair attack. [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh, oh!"] I
1764Lord H. CECIL
1765: I would much rather the right hon. Gentleman was in Ireland. He no doubt regards himself as the person responsible for the government of Ireland, and we must not attack officials of the Government except through him. He has very able colleagues who could quite well defend him here. He ought to be in Ireland in control,
1765Lord H. CECIL
: Does the right hon. Gentleman realise that the postponement of this small matter is causing infinite irritation throughout the country, and is doing infinite damage to his Government; and cannot he, therefore, consider the repealing of this stupid Regulation at once?Major HAMILTON
24. 1596 asked the Secretary of State for War when the complete accounts of the Canteen Board for the period ending 31st December, 1918, will
1596Major HAMILTON
43. 1597 asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department why the old war-time regulation that cash
1597Major HAMILTON
: Does the right hon. Gentleman realise that many old men may be passed into the next world before this modal is issued. It is two years since the Armistice, and these gentlemen, some over 60 years of age, who gallantly served at home in the Defence Force are still awaiting some recognition of their service?Major HAMILTON
23.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether some medal will be given to those who volunteered for service in the early days of the War and served for long periods at home, their age or physical condition only preventing their services overseas?Major HAMILTON
167616751674"The nation which is strongest in commercial air traffic will be the strongest also in the cardinal warfare of the future.": There will be basis no one representing the Air Ministry except the Joint Parliamentary Secretary, who has a great many other things to do, and who does not in any sense represent the Air Ministry. Let us see what exactly has happened as the result of the indefensible arrangement of the combination of the offices of Secretary of State for War and Secretary of State for Air, and we can then consider what will be the result of the comic and tragic position. The plan which the right hon. Gentleman laid before the House when he first became Secretary of State for Air was that a certain sum should be expended in maintaining the military establishments, and he impressed this point that the only way to really maintain a powerful Air Force was that it should rest upon a commercial industry in this country. General Sykes, Controller General of Civil Aviation, who speaks for the right hon. Gentleman, said not many months ago:
167616751674"The nation which is strongest in commercial air traffic will be the strongest also in the cardinal warfare of the future."Major-General SEELY
: I am sure the House listened with great interest to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, but I think they were amused and, indeed, amazed at the conclusion of it. He told us that he proposed to retain the seals of the Secretary of State for Air at the same time as those of the Secretary of State for the Colonies. A more extraordinary arrangement I think the House has never heard of. There were many of us who thought that the combination of the offices of Secretary of State for Air and Secretary of State for War was an indefensible arrangement, but to say that a man could be Secretary of State for the Colonies and Secretary of State for Air at one and the same time, seems to be indefensible, comic, but it may be in the end somewhat tragic. I am sorry to have to ask the right hon. Gentleman to leave his somewhat rollicking mood of cheerful optimism, and look at the bedrock facts of what has been the effect of his maladministration in the past. He began his speech by saying everything was going on just as before. So it is, but it is going very badly. May I draw his attention to this? I do not propose to go into any details. We shall be discussing these Estimates to-morrow, and perhaps it is proper now to ask who will be replying for the Air Ministry tomorrow, when, as we understand, the right hon. Gentleman is going off on his proper business to Egypt. Will he tell us who will be the representative of the Secretary of State for Air in this House?Major-General SEELY
: My right hon. Friend's presence never gave me pain, and I never said—and he will see if he looks at the OFFICIAL REPOET—that he only gave an hour a week to the Air Ministry. It would be most unfair to make that criticism. I said he could only give an hour a week to air affairs, and, indeed, how could a Secretary of State for War, with all the strain of that Department upon him, give more than that time? I do not suppose he did, although he gave more than any other man could have done. If he thought I made an unfair imputation, of course, at once I say I did not mean it.Major-General SEELY
21.  asked the Secretary of State for War why it is considered necessary since the War to have major-generals to carry out the duties of Military Attaché in foreign countries with aide-de-camps attached when lieutenant-colonels and colonels without aide-decamps were considered a suitable rank for such a post before the War?Sir C. TOWNSHEND
20.  asked the Secretary of State for War if any measures have been taken to withdraw the isolated detachment in the neighbourhood of Kasvin, some 600 miles distant from its main body?Sir CHARLES TOWNSHEND
: Does the right hon. Gentleman think the Committee will be able to investigate the accounts mentioned in the question?Major M. WOOD
25.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether the terms of reference of the Committee which is to inquire into the question of the Expeditionary Force canteen profits will enable the Committee to investigate the accounts of the Expeditionary Force canteens and the Navy and Army Canteen Board and to hear evidence as to any agreements made for the ultimate disposal of the Expeditionary Force canteen profits; and whether the evidence given before the Committee will be published?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
: How many officers commanding Infantry brigades are on full-time duties?Major M. WOOD
: Will the right hon. Gentleman be able to deal with it this Session or next Session?Major M. WOOD
: When does the right hon. Gentleman hope to be able to deal with this question by legislation after the Committee has reported?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
36.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether he is aware that Private F. Hind, No. 37676, enlisted on 5th July, 1920, and was posted to the 3rd Dragoon Guards, his age being then 17 years and 2 months; that he was shortly afterwards transferred to the 6th Dragoon Guards (Carabiniers), with whom he is now serving at the Curragh Camp, County Kildare, Ireland; that within a fortnight of his enlistment his parents claimed him, and the necessary birth certificate and letters, duly signed by the vicar, etc., were forwarded; that the officer commanding the Carabiniers recently applied for this man's discharge on compassionate grounds, particulars of which were furnished, but that his discharge was not sanctioned by higher authority; and whether, in view of the fact that this man joined under age and that there are good compassionate grounds for his release, and also in view of the fact that it is very undesirable that quite young soldiers should be employed in Ireland, where their duties may often necessitate being called out in aid of the civil power, he will take steps to get this man released from military service?Sir K. FRASER
: Seeing that there are so many ex-officers unemployed, are these ladies considered indispensable?Sir K. FRASER
18.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether the duties of private secretary and assistant private secretary to a member of the Army Council are being carried out by ladies; and were these positions formerly filled by higher division civil servants?Major Sir KEITH FRASER
45.  asked the Prime Minister if the Government has considered the Report of the Select Committee on Business Premises; if he is aware that the matter is urgent; and if it is proposed to give effect to the recommendations of the Committee?Mr. RODGER
64. c asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether provision will be made in the forthcoming Revenue Bill to give effect to the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Income Tax as regards an increase in the present statutory allowance of 16⅔ per cent, for repairs in respect of small dwelling-houses, such recommendations being under Section 4 (cMr. ATKEY
"I want to discuss it with the Chief Secretary. He gets all the bother."1735: I beg to second the Motion."I want to discuss it with the Chief Secretary. He gets all the bother."1735Mr. NEWBOULD
: I was quite well aware that when the Chief Secretary answered he would answer in his usual emphatic manner.Mr. NEWBOULD
"My main point is that it is an unfortunate time to do anything that looks panicky.": The Chief Secretary's manner is all his own, but his answers are frequently supplied to him. The combination is an unfortunate one, and it ceases to carry conviction to this House. I quite anticipated that I should get that interruption from the Chief Secretary. The letter went on to say:
"My main point is that it is an unfortunate time to do anything that looks panicky."Mr. NEWBOULD
1738Laughter.1737"If you prefer it, keep them on by not completing their account until I come back.": Could the dismissal of these men look panicky from any other point of view than a political point of view? I think not. It is quite obvious on the face of General Tudor's letter that that was the important fact in their minds at the time. My point is that after approving of General Crozier's letter before embarking on the boat for England—and as General Tudor admits that he had approved of it—General Tudor had an appointment with or met some highly-placed official in Dublin, and that official placed before him the possible political consequences of the dismissal of these men. That, and that alone, is the explanation of that letter. Why was it an unfortunate moment when this might look panicky? It was the eve of the assembly of Parliament, and the Government had some very awkward snags to surmount in regard to Ireland. They had the suppression of the Strickland Report, and the publication of Judge Bodkin's Report. These were nasty snags to surmount, and they were the reasons why political considerations were taken into account. The suggestion that General Tudor's action was dictated by the fact that General Crozier's action had not been severe enough, is blown sky-high by General Tudor himself in the last paragraph of his letter:
1738Laughter.1737"If you prefer it, keep them on by not completing their account until I come back."Mr. NEWBOULD
: I have been a private soldier, and tried.Mr. NEWBOULD
: Might I interrupt the right hon. Gentleman? General Crozier's Adjutant and the Officer in Command and the Second in Command of this company were present at the investigation. They can prove whether there was a proper investigation or not.Mr. NEWBOULD
: Have you been a private soldier?Mr. NEWBOULD
: There were plenty of witnesses.Mr. NEWBOULD
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say whether General Crozier will be asked to give evidence at the inquiry now taking place?Mr. NEWBOULD
: I cannot answer that offhand, but if my hon. and gallant Friend will write me a note I will inform him.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
"To consider and advise as to the basis to be adopted for ascertaining the profits of the Navy and Army Canteen Board and Expeditionary Force Canteens available for apportionment among the various interests concerned, and to make recommendations as to apportionment, regard being had to the reduction of the organisation to a peace footing, and to its future requirements of working capital.": The terms of reference to the Committee are as follow:
"To consider and advise as to the basis to be adopted for ascertaining the profits of the Navy and Army Canteen Board and Expeditionary Force Canteens available for apportionment among the various interests concerned, and to make recommendations as to apportionment, regard being had to the reduction of the organisation to a peace footing, and to its future requirements of working capital."Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: The balance sheet and profit and loss account of the Navy and Army Canteen Board as at 31st December, 1918, was published in Army Council Instruction 91 of 1920. In regard to the remainder of the question, I would refer the hon. and gallant Member to the answer given to the hon. and gallant Member for Aberdeen Central on 22nd February.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I am only here to answer as to facts. I cannot read thoughts.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
1594: No information has been received to the effect that the last pay certificate of ex-lance-corporal T. White, Royal Engineers, has been lost. It was cabled for on 29th January last,
1594Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I cannot answer that. I can only say that we are doing all we can to get these accounts settled. If the accounts are lost, we shall assume the matter, and deal with the man fairly.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: We have cabled to our representative in India to take the matter up personally, and at once.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: Yes, Sir. Naval ratings with two years' service will receive the increase of pay. Soldiers from South Africa and Canada who served in Imperial units and were paid from Imperial funds draw the increased pay, but, as I have already informed the hon. and gallant Member, Colonial service, as such, does not qualify.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: Inquiries are being made into this case, and I will let the hon. and gallant Member know the result as soon as possible.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: Reassessment of pension is limited by the Royal Warrant to men who gave satisfactory re-enlisted service, and I regret it is not possible to depart from the general rule.Sir A. WILLIAMSON (Parliamentary Secretary, War Office)
: The question had been fully considered, and it was not found possible to alter the decision come to.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: Yes, but there are other considerations. Requisitioning involves searching for lorries, but under an arrangement of this sort lorries are brought to us.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: Appeals against an adverse decision regarding the adequacy of the grounds on which claims to purchase discharge are based are now allowed to the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Command in which the soldier is serving. His decision on the matter is final.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: That is true, but you have to know where to lay your hands on them. A register of vehicles enabling you to get them at a moment's notice may be very important in a case of urgency.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I informed the hon. and gallant Member on a previous occasion that the question is not yet decided. It is only under consideration. Provision was made in last year's Estimates, but nothing was done.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: We know the number, but I have not the figures with me. If the hon. Member will put down a question, I will get the information.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: I cannot answer. It will be the number required for a small Expeditionary Force.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: The proposal under consideration is to subsidise vehicles sufficient only to provide for the mobilisation of a small force, in place of acquiring and maintaining in store a number of idle lorries; and the necessary provision for a beginning to be made in the current financial year was included in the Estimates. I have, however, already undertaken that nothing will be spent until the Vote on Account for Army for 1921–22 has been taken. The cost for that year would be £38,000. I take this opportunity of explaining that a similar scheme was in operation before the War; and that the forms to which reference was made last week were merely forms of enquiry, sent out after conferences at which the scheme had been discussed with representative makers and owners of vehicles, in order to ascertain whether the necessary numbers of vehicles would be tendered in the event of the scheme being adopted.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: In view of the immense importance of the rupee exchange to the trade of Lancashire, may I ask whether anything will be done to stabilise it?Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
: Is not the right hon. Gentleman aware that the British industrial community is by no means unanimous in the view that it would like to have a turnover tax?Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
30.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether, over half a million war medals have had to be melted down owing to their being defective, and a further number melted because the War Office changed its mind as to the design; and what is the total cost of the medals which, owing to these causes, will have to be replaced?Mr. RENDALL
: I have received, not a revised Report, but a Supplementary Report from the Committee, and I am making arrangements for the publication of the two Reports.The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER (Mr. Chamberlain)
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say from what date these naval ratings will receive the increase?Sir B. FALLE
42.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the War Office if those naval ratings who enlisted in the military police before 23rd February of this year in the belief that they would receive the pay due to those who had done two years' service, will receive the increase of pay given to men of two years' service or if such increase is only for future enlistments; and if he is aware that Dominion soldiers from South Africa and Canada are drawing full pay?Major Sir B. FALLE
: I would refer my hon. Friend to the answer given by the Prime Minister yesterday to a question by my learned and gallant Friend the Member for Moss Side (Lieut.-Colonel Hurst).Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
: I am not in a position to name a date for this discussion.Mr. BONAR LAW
: We quite realise the importance of that, but I cannot give an answer to my hon. Friend.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I fear that it is beyond the power of His Majesty's Government to effect a stabilisation of the world's exchanges, but the Government has under consideration proposals, both in connection with the Ter Meulen scheme and otherwise, for facilitating the exports which are now checked by the state of the exchanges, and I can assure the hon. Member that there will be no delay on the part of His Majesty's Government in doing anything that may be found feasible.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The only means by which the object which my hon. and gallant Friend has in view could be secured would be either by an import duty or by an absolute prohibition of the importation of flour. His Majesty's Government are not prepared to adopt either of these courses.Mr. BONAR LAW
: That is a very difficult problem, as my hon. and gallant Friend knows. I spent a good many years myself trying to solve it, but I was not successful.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The British delegate at the Barcelona Conference will be Sir Hubert Llewellyn Smith, G.C.B.Mr. BONAR LAW
: That is my information. He will at all events be the head.Mr. BONAR LAW
Answer:Answer:Question:" Question:1758: My right hon. Friend's speech implied that the man who wanted disciplinary action was General Crozier. The very essence of this case is that the first action to secure discipline was taken by General Tudor, who we are now told wanted to allow the men to escape, and in fact condoned the offence. Next it is said that General Tudor approved of the arrest of these five men and of the dismissal of the remaining 26. General Tudor denies that. He is most emphatic, and those who know him and who served with him in France—whatever opinions they may have—will agree that they can rely on anything he may say. I do not, however, rely only on General Tudor's statement. I rely on the clear evidence of facts. The letter he wrote from Kingstown bears out the statement that he had doubts about the dismissal of these men. He wrote to General Crozier that he thought they should be suspended until he returned to Dublin. Does not that in itself prove that General Tudor was doubtful about the wisdom of dismissing these men? My right hon. Friend suggested that it was a second thought; but General Crozier made this visit on the 14th, and the letter of General Tudor's was written on the 14th. How is there a second thought? It is quite evident that at that time he had doubt as to the wisdom of sending the men over, and he told them not to send them, but to keep them till he came back.Answer:Answer:Question:" Question:1758Mr. BONAR LAW
: Yes, but there is one way in which it can be ended. The reprisals, if they exist, only come after brutal murders. The whole situation would end at once if the murders ceased. Han. Members opposite and right hon. Gentlemen on the Front Bench opposite could make no greater mistake than to imagine that they are going to get peace in Ireland by trying, however ineffectively, to give the impression that this country will ever surrender to crime.Mr. BONAR LAW
176117601759: My hon. and gallant Friend says that it is all the stronger, but it seems to me that it is all invention. Let us consider further what happened. General Tudor called together all his officers in Dublin to discuss
176117601759Mr. BONAR LAW
17571756: I remember with regret that the last time I spoke on this
17571756Mr. BONAR LAW
: That is disputed.Mr. BONAR LAW
12.  asked the Undersecretary of State for Foreign Affairs if he can hold out an early prospect for the abolition, or a substantial modification approximating to peace-time conditions, of the present passport regulations, so that continental travel and intercourse, especially with our Allies, may be further facilitated?Mr. PERCY
: Has the right hon. Gentleman any information as to the intention of France to modify their passport regulations?Mr. PERCY
: Where did you get posted?Mr. STANTON
29.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether any appeal is allowed against refusal to grant an application for the discharge of a soldier by purchase?Lieut.-Colonel DALRYMPLE WHITE
59. bonâ fide asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, in view of the distress and loss caused to the public by the failure of certain banks, such as the Charing Cross and Farrow's Bank, the Government propose to introduce any legislation to check the use of the name bank, except in the case of bonâ fideLieut. - Colonel DALRYMPLE WHITE
: Certainly not.Mr. HENRY
: My right hon. Friend has asked me to answer this question. No, Sir. No warrant has been issued for the arrest of Captain Macfie. The last part of the question does not, therefore, arise.The ATTORNEY-GENERAL for IRELAND (Mr. Denis Henry)
: My right hon. Friend has asked me to answer this question. His attention has been drawn to the case of Patrick Moran. While not admitting the accuracy of the statements contained in the question, I cannot say more than that in this as in every other case due weight will be given to every material consideration before a final decision is given.Mr. HENRY
1703: Whatever it was I know that the duties of Secretary of State for War demand the whole energies of the Minister in charge, and whatever the abilities of my right hon. Friend—and they are great—even he is not able to do justice to both these Departments. He is Secretary of State for the Colonies, and, for sometime to come at least, he i3 to remain the Minister for Air. Clearly the Ministry for Air requires the whole energies of some Minister specially set apart to look after it. He will have a special salary, and the House is entitled to demand that that man when appointed shall give the whole of his time in that special effort. This House is particularly concerned in that, as the Under-Secretary for State is in the other House. What about the Secretary of State for the Colonies? There has not been a more important year for the Secretary of State for the Colonies than the year on which we have now entered. In the course of a few weeks we shall have here the representatives of the Dominions beyond the seas and they will be here for the best part of two months and will be discussing the most important questions affecting, not only the civil side, but the military side of the British Empire1703Sir D. MACLEAN
: I listened to my right hon. Friend with the admiration which one always conceives for an address which, as I understood it, is a farewell ceremony, and it was couched in language which I thought entirely suitable to that, preparing the way for his successor, suggesting to the House that the work which had been done was work which was soundly founded, and if let alone, with no rude breath of criticism, would bear rich fruit very soon, and would have larger fruition in the seasons yet to come. But the speech filled me with deepest alarm, because it indicated quite definitely the hope, for at any rate sometime to come— the length of the life of this Government, be it short or long—he was still to preside over the destinies of the Air Service. I find some confirmation of that, because on page 27 the salary is set down at £2,500, and the Note says, "Also Secretary of State for the Colonies."Sir D. MACLEAN
: I would be glad if my right hon. Friend was about to get £7,500 a year. He is worth whatever he gets. I concede that with the greatest possible pleasure. But the whole burden of his speech was, "Here is this Ministry in its early stages, and so important is this present stage that an unjust and too hostile criticism may destroy this tender growth which requires the greatest possible care from those who are in charge of it," My right hon. Friend (Major-General Seely) said that when he was at the War Office the right hon. Gentleman managed to give about an hour a week to this.Sir D. MACLEAN
: We will say that he gave up half an hour a day.Sir D. MACLEAN
: Police officers visited the houses of three persons in Woolwich in connection with investigations as to certain recent crimes. I do not know to what organisations Councillor Purcell belongs. The police officers were provided with the usual warrants, but I understand they were not asked to produce them. Of the papers taken away some will be returned, some are under consideration.Mr. SHORTT
: I do not agree with the hon. Member's statement of fact.Mr. SHORTT
: I have received a report on the incident referred to. The man who broke these windows was arrested, and is remanded until the 3rd March. I have no evidence that he is a Sinn Feiner. The damage is valued at about £500. A number of Irishmen have migrated to Manchester and other towns in this country during the last few months, but inquiries show no ground for fearing that more than a handful have come here with criminal intent, and I do not think that a system of Government control of passenger traffic from Ireland is necessary or practicable.Mr. SHORTT
: We cannot prevent them joining, of course, but the committees concerned must take steps to see that they do not participate in the proceeds.Mr. SHORTT
: No case of the nature referred to in the first portion of the question has been brought to my notice. As regards the supervision of street collections on behalf of the unemployed, I will send to the hon. and gallant Member a copy of the special and additional conditions attached to the official permits issued by the Commissioner to accredited committees. The police cannot supervise the distribution of the proceeds: it is the business of the committee concerned to ensure that only genuinely unemployed British subjects are allowed to participate.Mr. SHORTT
: The Commissioner of Police informs me that MacDonald was arrested on 20th February on a warrant for alleged fraudulent conversion. He appeared on 21st February before the magistrate at Clerkenwell Police Court, who remanded him in custody, till the 28th, and then further remanded him till the 2nd March.Mr. SHORTT
: No, Sir.Mr. SHORTT
: I did so at the outset.Mr. SHORTT
: The answer to the first and third paragraphs of the question is in the affirmative. With regard to the second paragraph, I have consulted the Secretary for Scotland and he concurs in the view that any disadvantages which might be felt by agriculturists were not sufficient to outweigh the advantages derived by the community as a whole from the continuance of summer time between April and September.Mr. SHORTT
: I regret that I do not see my way to alter the decision which has already been announced, and which was arrived at after consultation with the Scottish Authorities. I must not be understood as admitting that there is any ground for the suggestion in the last part of the question.Mr. SHORTT
: That question should be addressed to the Leader of the House.Mr. SHORTT
: Like another question with which the Prime Minister dealt last Wednesday, this is a matter which will come up for consideration on the proposed Licensing Bill.The SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Mr. Shortt)
: Monsieur Krassin is expected to arrive in London very shortly, and the reply to the latest note from the Soviet Government will be made to him as soon as practicable.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I would rather have notice of that question.Mr. KELLAWAY
: There is no intention at present to abolish the passport and visa system. When the resolutions agreed to at the International Conference, held in Paris in October last, are adopted, a substantial modification in the system will result. The League of Nations is in correspondence with the various Governments on the matter.Mr. KELLAWAY
: His Majesty's Government have throughout been prepared to recognise the Government of Mexico as soon as they are convinced of its stability, and they are not aware that such a policy is prejudicial to British interests. I can assure the hon. and gallant Member that this is a predominant consideration by which the decision of His Majesty's Government has been, and will continue to be, guided.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I could not answer that question without notice.Mr. KELLAWAY
: Because personal negotiations are much more rapid than the prolonged method of writing.Mr. KELLAWAY
: My attention has been called to a number of cases in which contracts have been lost by British trade to foreign competitors who benefit by the rate of exchange. The great majority of these cases relate to foreign markets, and, so far as the Dominions and Colonies are concerned, I have not as yet received any definite information of important contracts for competitive goods having been lost to foreign competitors on account of the level of the exchanges. As, however, I indicated in my reply to the hon. Member for the Keighley Division on the 22nd February, it would be unwise to assume that European competition in Empire markets will not be more severe in the near future.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I would rather not commit myself to any statement on that point at the present time.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I will see that my Noble Friend's suggestion is conveyed to the Leader of the House.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I will see that that suggestion is conveyed to my Noble Friend.Mr. KELLAWAY
: There was a reply given to that question yesterday.Mr. KELLAWAY
: The question is at this moment before the Council of the League at Paris. Pending the result of their deliberations, I am not in a position to make a statement.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I would refer the hon. Member to the written reply given to the hon. Member for Govan (Mr. Neil Maclean) on the 24th instant.Mr. KELLAWAY
: The reactions of Irish news are very marked both inside this House and out of it.Mr. KELLAWAY
: The Egyptian Government still find it necessary to maintain a mild censorship on newspapers in Egypt irrespective of the language in which they are published. The censorship is designed to prevent the publication of matter liable to excite religious or racial animosity or the dissemination of false or alarmist reports calculated to disturb public tranquillity. I have no information as to the numbers of persons whom the Egyptian Government employ for censorship purposes, but no expenditure under this head falls upon British funds.Mr. KELLAWAY
1583: I understand that a certain number of Bulgarian prisoners are still detained in Serbia on the ground that these men are not ordinary prisoners of war, but individuals detained under
1583Mr. KELLAWAY
: British institutions are feeding over a quarter of a million children daily, and I am informed, although I cannot vouch for the accuracy of the figures, that 2,750,000 children are being fed under the auspices of the American relief administration and further numbers of children by other American organisations.Mr. KELLAWAY
: His Majesty's Government are aware that the United States Consul at San Jose endeavoured to secure the cancellation of a concession in Costa Rica obtained by a United States Company, but in which British capital was interested. His Majesty's Government will afford all proper support to any legitimate concession obtained in accordance with the laws and constitution of Costa Rica.Mr. KELLAWAY
: The Sudan Government are most anxious to construct the Kassala Railway, but they must decide for themselves as to whether they are justified in issuing a loan for the purpose. The answer to the latter part of the question is in the affirmative, and the Sudan Government have been informed of the opinion to which the hon. Member refers.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I have received no information about the proposal in question. The reply to the second part of the question is in the negative.Mr. KELLAWAY
: The hon. and gallant Gentleman cannot expect me to answer that question. Reports of the nature indicated have reached His Majesty's Government both through His Majesty's Ambassor at Tokyo and His Majesty's Representative at Peking. These reports, which are necessarily based upon information from unofficial sources, show that numbers of Koreans have been killed and Korean property has been destroyed in Chientao. There is no confirmation of the report that special discrimination has been shown against Christian Koreans or Korean Church property as such. His Majesty's Government have received from an unofficial source an account of the alleged circumstances attending the death of the Korean colporteur at Sulchilgo, just as they have received reports of punitive measures elsewhere in Chientao. The general nature of these reports has been such that His Majesty's Government have felt justified in bringing them to the notice of the Japanese Government. As regards the utterances of Major-General Sato, the precise statement attributed to him by my hon. Friend has not so far come before His Majesty's Government, nor would they be disposed to regard such a statement by a subordinate military official as in any sense authoritative. But as long ago as December last, a disavowal was made by the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs of the utterances of that officer and of those of Colonel Mizumachi in accusing British missionaries of encouraging Korean malcontents against Japan. As stated in this House, in reply to my hon. Friend's previous question of 21st December last, His Majesty's Government have no reason whatever to suppose that British missionaries are in any way guilty of aiding Korean malcontents.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I would rather not make any more definite statement than that contained in the answer I have given, which is very detailed.Mr. KELLAWAY
: Perhaps my hon. and gallant Friend will let me have the information on which his question is based.Mr. KELLAWAY
: Every effort is being made. Deliberations are taking place continuously now, and my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade hopes to announce the Government's proposals in the course of a few days.Mr. KELLAWAY
: As the hon. Member is aware, an export credits scheme has already been set up with a view to facilitating trade with countries whose economic conditions have been disorganised by the War. The question whether any modifications can be made in that scheme with a view to facilitating its utilisation, and the question generally of the provision of credits in respect of the countries concerned is receiving the active consideration of the Government.Mr. KELLAWAY
: My experience of the working of the present scheme has convinced me that some modifications are necessary.Mr. KELLAWAY
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the negative. Friendly representations were made last June to the Greek Government that His Majesty's Government could not approve of the Greek occupation of Koritza at a moment when the whole question of Albania was under discussion; the answer to the third part of the question does not arise.Mr. KELLAWAY
1577: As has already been stated, instructions have been given for the publication of the Mandates, and they will be in Members' hands at an early date. After hon. Members have had an opportunity of examining them, perhaps
1577Mr. KELLAWAY
: The Commission for the distribution of Austrian rolling stock, which was provided for in the Treaty of St. Germain, has not so far been able to arrive at a final settlement, but proposals have recently been made which, it is hoped, may accelerate a solution of the problem. It was decided recently in Paris to summon representatives of the Successor States to a Conference with the Allies at an early date to consider what steps can be taken to restore, so far as possible, normal economic relations, and in particular to improve means of communication, between the States of Central Europe.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I agree as to its importance. We find the effect of the interruption of communications in almost every department, but, as the answer shows, a Conference has now been summoned, and I hope that something practical will result.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I am aware that an emigration licence has not yet been granted to the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company, and this matter is now under discussion with the German Government. My hon. Friend may rest assured that His Majesty's Government will take such action as may be necessary to secure to British interests their full rights under the Treaty in this matter, which they recognise to be of the greatest importance.Mr. KELLAWAY
: Everything that is possible will be done.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I think the answer I have given shows that His Majesty's Government are fully aware of all these conditions.Mr. KELLAWAY
"should either High Contracting Party conclude a Treaty of General Arbitration with a third Power, it is agreed that nothing in this agreement shall entail upon such contracting party an obligation to go to war with the Power with whom such Treaty of Arbitration is in force.": Article 4 of the Anglo-Japanese Agreement of 13th July, 1911, provides that
"should either High Contracting Party conclude a Treaty of General Arbitration with a third Power, it is agreed that nothing in this agreement shall entail upon such contracting party an obligation to go to war with the Power with whom such Treaty of Arbitration is in force."Mr. KELLAWAY (Additional Undersecretary of State for Foreign Affairs)
: How far has the issue of War medals gone?Mr. LANE-FOX
: I can say at once he did not.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: I do not think the hon. Member advances the point at all. I admit the conflict on this, but I cannot see how it was possible to hold an adequate trial of 26 cadets in the 3½ hours which General Crozier occupied.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, I have been a private soldier?Sir H. GREENWOOD
17441743H. H. Tudor."Yours Sincerely,I think it will be best for yon to keep these 30 temporary cadets suspended until I come back. I want to discuss it with the Chief Secretary. He gets all the bother. My main point is that it is an unfortunate time to do anything which looks panicky. I think also these temporary cadets will have a distinct grievance if the platoon commanders and sections leaders are acquitted Tell these 30 they are suspended pending my return or, if you prefer it, keep them on by not completing their accounts till I come back."Dear Crozier,: The point is that there is conflict. I regret there is; no documentary evidence bearing out the suggestion that there was a fair trial of these men, and that is the first point of conflict. General Tudor left for London on the night of the 14th, after having seen, and discussed the matter with, General Crozier. Here we come to the letter, which I think is vital to this whole matter. Before he left on the night boat from Queenstown, which leaves about 8 o'clock, he wrote this letter, which I must read again, to General Crozier. He wrote this letter before he came to London, while the Cadets were suspended, and while the five were then, as they still are, under close arrest on the accusation of looting.
17441743H. H. Tudor."Yours Sincerely,I think it will be best for yon to keep these 30 temporary cadets suspended until I come back. I want to discuss it with the Chief Secretary. He gets all the bother. My main point is that it is an unfortunate time to do anything which looks panicky. I think also these temporary cadets will have a distinct grievance if the platoon commanders and sections leaders are acquitted Tell these 30 they are suspended pending my return or, if you prefer it, keep them on by not completing their accounts till I come back."Dear Crozier,Sir H. GREENWOOD
"Send over the Twenty-six N. Company Cadets now in London for investigation by the Chief of Police."1745"The statement appearing in the interview given by General Crozier to the Press has no truth in it so far as it concerns me. I was present at the conference held at General Tudor's office on the 17th inst., when General Crozier, his Adjutant, and the Company Commanders were present. It was very clearly stated by General Tudor that there was no question of condoning looting or other disobedience, and that the Cadets had been brought back with a promise of trial, and in the event of being found guilty of any offence, would be punished.": General Tudor took no action in England but returned to Dublin and met a conference of the company commanders of the Auxiliaries. It should be stated that the Company Commanders of the Auxiliaries are all distinguished soldiers. When we have difficulty in getting an adequate commander from the Auxiliary Force itself we get a senior officer from the War Office. General Tudor met all these senior officers, including General Crozier. This Trim matter with other matters was discussed frankly and fully. On that point the hon. and gallant Member for Waterford (Captain Redmond) wanted to know whether I could read from some evidence of someone at that conference contradicting General Crozier. I am very happy to be able to oblige him. General Wood, the second in command of the Auxiliary Depot, was at that conference and he says:
"Send over the Twenty-six N. Company Cadets now in London for investigation by the Chief of Police."1745"The statement appearing in the interview given by General Crozier to the Press has no truth in it so far as it concerns me. I was present at the conference held at General Tudor's office on the 17th inst., when General Crozier, his Adjutant, and the Company Commanders were present. It was very clearly stated by General Tudor that there was no question of condoning looting or other disobedience, and that the Cadets had been brought back with a promise of trial, and in the event of being found guilty of any offence, would be punished."Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The difficulty was that they could not get witnesses. One reason for the suspension of these 26 cadets was that they would not implicate anybody and refused to answer questions.Sir H. GREENWOOD
1741: Let me bring the House back to the sequence of events in this matter that is called the Trim
1741Sir H. GREENWOOD
1739: My only regret in speaking in this Debate is that, owing to the exigencies of the House, it was impossible to bring on the Debate at once when the question was first raised, so that I could have met criticism at an earlier date and could have checked in their dissemination a good deal of criticism and innuendo which I think, is both unfounded and unfair. I think it would be well, and the House would appreciate it, if I made a few preliminary remarks as to what the Auxiliary Division is, and cleared up certain misconceptions as to the Division. Let me say in the forefront of my remarks that no one realises more than I do the difficulties of obtaining rapid, accurate, and full information in regard to events in Ireland. Ireland in many parts is in a state of actual rebellion. Soldiers, policemen, civil servants and law-abiding people are frequently in danger of their lives, and it is a difficult thing to get all the information that any Chief Secretary would like to give to the House as rapidly or as fully as he and the House would naturally desire. That is said in reference to a matter mentioned by the hon. Member for Leyton (Mr. Newbould). The realities of the Irish situation are not always appreciated by the House of Commons. If I am asked a question about Cork to-day, I have to take some officer from his duty in that rebellious area, where the lives of officers of the Crown are in hourly peril, to deal with a very proper question raised in the House of Commons. No one regrets more than I do the inadequacy and belatedness of much of the information given to the House.1739Sir H. GREENWOOD
1740ad hoc: In May or June. It was an 1740ad hocSir H. GREENWOOD
: I regret to say that there are no records of General Crozier's investigation except what I have given the hon. and gallant Member in Question and Answer and in my speech to-night. There is a conflict of evidence between General Crozier and General Tudor. One says there was an investigation, a proper trial, as the hon. and gallant Member for Waterford has said, General Tudor, and I am convinced he is right, says there was no such thing as a trial.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am informed they did.Sir H. GREENWOOD
"Dear General,—The more I think over the matter, the more I am of opinion that your attitude in the Trim incident has made my position quite impossible. As I am all out to have the discipline unquestioned, I therefore propose to resign at the expiration of my leave. I still consider thefts on the part of policemen in the course of their duty unpardonable, and I cannot honestly associate myself with a Force in which such acts are condoned."1747: I shall see that he is asked. I hope that in the interests of the old Force of which he was the commander, and which I believe he left largely because of the non-receipt of that letter from General Tudor, he will do his best to bring the culprits in this case to justice. As to the question put by the hon. and gallant Member for Waterford, whether I agree with the Prime Minister in regard to the dismissal of the seven cadets "Dear General,—The more I think over the matter, the more I am of opinion that your attitude in the Trim incident has made my position quite impossible. As I am all out to have the discipline unquestioned, I therefore propose to resign at the expiration of my leave. I still consider thefts on the part of policemen in the course of their duty unpardonable, and I cannot honestly associate myself with a Force in which such acts are condoned."1747Sir H. GREENWOOD
: This Court of Inquiry interviewed, as is required by the regulations governing the constabulary, not only each one of the twenty-five suspended cadets, but every other member of N Company who was at all likely to have been connected with this business at Trim on 9th February. On the Report of this Court of Enquiry charges will be made against members of this company who can be accused of looting. A court-martial will be set up by Sir Nevil Macready and it will be composed entirely of British officers. These men will be tried and if found guilty will be sentenced, and after sentence will be dismissed from the force. That is the procedure now going on. It is fair. It will do justice to the innocent and certainly stern justice to the culprits. This will be the best thing in the way of discipline for the whole Force. I believe that the discipline of a force is made the stronger and the better if justice, however stern, is meted out deliberately and fairly by officers who have the confidence even of those who suffer.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: He is a most efficient and gallant officer, and carries out his duties satisfactorily to General Tudor and me. It is very hard on these men in Ireland, who risk their lives—Sir H. GREENWOOD
"He is a very gallant and fearless soldier"—17501749"I regret there should have been a misunderstanding, as your letter clearly shows there has been. I hare nothing more to add, except to thank you for the work you have done as Commandant of the Auxiliary Division, which I know has been exacting.""Dear Crozier,—I have received your letter and have accepted your resignation as Commandant of the Auxiliary Division from to-day. I have so informed the Chief Secretary."—"The lack of control of the Irish administration, as disclosed by the Chief Secretary … in his admission that he had no knowledge of the resignation of General Crozier until the 22nd February.": I do not think it was a delay in postage. The first part of the Motion which condemns me deals with this non-receipt of this letter of resignation. It says:
"He is a very gallant and fearless soldier"—17501749"I regret there should have been a misunderstanding, as your letter clearly shows there has been. I hare nothing more to add, except to thank you for the work you have done as Commandant of the Auxiliary Division, which I know has been exacting.""Dear Crozier,—I have received your letter and have accepted your resignation as Commandant of the Auxiliary Division from to-day. I have so informed the Chief Secretary."—"The lack of control of the Irish administration, as disclosed by the Chief Secretary … in his admission that he had no knowledge of the resignation of General Crozier until the 22nd February."Sir H. GREENWOOD
1751: No, it is not the only one, but that one and every other one is inquired into by officers in whom I have confidence, and the culprits are tried by officers in whom General Sir Nevil Macready has confidence. I hope this incident, as General Crozier
1751Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, as long us I have the confidence of the House in my efforts to secure the sternest discipline for the forces in Ireland, in the interests of Ireland, as well as for the good name of this country, I will remain.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am here only because the House demands it.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Would the right hon. Gentleman tell the House whether in his opinion, private soldiers or policemen should report to their seniors?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
46.  asked the Prime Minister whether he will consider the desirability of introducing legislation which will have the effect of causing wheat to be milled in the United Kingdom instead of being imported as flour, and thereby providing employment for a very large number of ex-service and other unemployed, whilst at the same time providing cheap feeding-stuffs for British stock raisers and poultry farmers?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Are these C.R.A.'s?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Is it not a fact that this will have no effect on the cost of living to the poor of this country, and will not the Government consider the matter with a view to providing by new avenues the employment which is so imperatively necessary, in view of the present cost to the taxpayer?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Why not?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: In view of the desire of the population, as has been shown every day, to assist cases of real distress, will it be made clear that no man who is in receipt of unemployed donation who takes part in these processions will continue to receive the donation if discovered?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
1754: Yes. If they have been engaged in theft and pillage, certainly. What are they in Ireland for? They are not sent as combatants; they are sent as policemen, and if they are engaged in committing crime, certainly they ought to report. What happened then? These men were dismissed, and sent back to England. General Tudor had an interview with the Chief Secretary, and—I am now coming to a fact in controversy—he had his interview with the men. I would like to know exactly what passed between General Tudor and these
1754Mr. ASQUITH
1755: That is what I would like to know. It is a very extraordinary proceeding. And what offence were they going to be charged with? That is the first question I ask, and about which there is considerable controversy. Then I come to another. What happened at this meeting in Dublin when General Tudor met the assembled officers from General Crozier downwards—General Crozier, General Wood, the Adjutant and the Company Commanders at Dublin Castle? General Crozier's statement is perfectly plain. The whole question was a question of reinstatement. I hear for the first time to-night that General Wood makes a contrary statement. Have the Company Commanders been asked their recollection of this matter? What do they say? Because, unless General Crozier is either making a misstatement, considerable discussion took place as to which of the various companies of the regiment these men should be put into. It does not look as if any of them had been brought back there for the purpose of being tried. I am not expressing any opinion one way or the other as to which of these statements is true, but I say you cannot accept the statement made by the Chief Secretary to-night without taking into account the absolutely contradictory statement made by General Crozier and all those who agree with him. On this point there is a complete conflict of evidence between them. We are in this position. Admittedly there was a gross breach of discipline by persons who were no longer fit to be members of the police force. Admittedly, after inquiry, they were dismissed by their Commanding Officer. Admittedly the order was promulgated
1755Mr. ASQUITH
: It is the first time I have heard it disputed. It is asserted most positively by General Crozier that it was so approved, and I think General Tudor's own letter when he was on the voyage to England proves that it was the case. So strongly was General Crozier of that opinion that a précis of the decision was drawn up and was circulated through all the companies of the auxiliary force in order to be read at three successive parades. That was the state of things, and except for this point, raised for the first time to-night, that General Tudor did not approve of the dismissal of these men, there is no dispute about the facts I have given, absolutely none.Mr. ASQUITH
17531752: It is the only case, I think—certainly it is one of very few cases—in which an actually proved instance of misconduct on the part of the Auxiliary forces in Ireland having been examined by the General in command of that force and visited by him, with the approval of his superior officer, with condign punishment, his action has been disavowed and is now overruled by the Chief Secretary. [HON. MEMBERS: "No," and "Withdraw."] I repeat what I have just said. I hold no brief in this matter for any of the Generals concerned. I know very well the admirable service which General Tudor rendered in the War as Commander of the Ninth Divi-
17531752Mr. ASQUITH
: I said so.Mr. ASQUITH
: The right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has perorated with his accustomed vigour, this time on the theme of the importance of maintaining discipline in the forces of the Crown in Ireland—a very appropriate subject. It is curious that we should, for the first time, I think, have heard him deal with this matter with such energy and even vehemence of language. [HON. MEMBERS: "NO."] With more vehemence and vigour. It is the only case, so far as I know. [HON. MEMBERS: "No."]Mr. ASQUITH
: At the par rates of exchange.Mr. PEASE
: The cost of 5,000 calls a year in London under the new rates will be £38 16s. 3d.; of 10,000 calls £68 10s. The cost to a New York subscriber under the proposed rates will be £52 0s. 3d. for 5,000 and £93 2s. for 10,000. Subscribers in the business centres in London will be able to communicate without further charge over 314 square miles, and in New York over 163 square miles.Mr. PEASE
: I am informed that the inquiry into the New York Telephone rates is not yet completed. The answer to the second paragraph is in the affirmative, judging from statements which have appeared in the Press.The ASSISTANT POSTMASTER-GENERAL (Mr. Pike Pease)
: And you remain.Mr. HOGGE
: I thought that I had answered that question. As a result of my construction of the Act, it places him in the same position as the Governor-General. If criticism be desired, a Motion should be put down in the ordinary way, and discussed in this House.Mr. SPEAKER
: The Noble Lord, I think, was not here when questions were put last week which raised the point of Order. That is why I was brought in.Mr. SPEAKER
: I am much obliged to the hon. Baronet for his support.Mr. SPEAKER
1616fortiori,"And whereas concurrently with the gradual development of self-governing institutions in the Provinces of India it is expedient to give to those Provinces in provincial matters the largest measure of independence of the Government of India which is compatible with the due discharge by the latter of its own responsibilities.": I thank the right hon. Gentleman for having been kind enough to postpone from yesterday to to-day the raising of this point of Order. That has given me more time to look into the matter and refresh my memory by reading again the Preamble to the Act of 1919. The more I look at it the more I am convinced that I was right. The last paragraph says:
1616fortiori,"And whereas concurrently with the gradual development of self-governing institutions in the Provinces of India it is expedient to give to those Provinces in provincial matters the largest measure of independence of the Government of India which is compatible with the due discharge by the latter of its own responsibilities."Mr. SPEAKER
: That is so. I accept the view of the right hon. Gentleman, but upon the question of transferred subjects I still hold that there is no right of interference by this House.Mr. SPEAKER
: We are getting rather far from the point from which we started.Mr. SPEAKER
: There are no Standing Orders applicable to the present case, but there is no reason, if the House think fit, why it should not introduce such a Standing Order as the hon. Gentleman suggests.Mr. SPEAKER
: When an hon. Member refers to an answer given last year he should give notice.Mr. SPEAKER
: Hon. Members must not put further questions on this matter.Mr. SPEAKER
: There is a Motion down for 8.15, and I shall suspend the sitting of the House until that hour.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member had better get back into the air.Mr. SPEAKER
: Does not the right hon. Gentleman see the advisability of having these forms printed in a language people can understand—printed in the Welsh language?Mr. HINDS
: Or anti-waste agitation.Mr. MILLS
73.  asked the Postmaster-General if he is aware that there was an inquiry into the New York telephones at the end of last year; and whether the business men of New York offered to pay higher telephone rates if they could secure an efficient system?Mr. MILLS
 asked the Postmaster-General what, under the latest rates arranged, it costs in London and New York, respectively, for telephone subscribers to make 5,000 or 10,000 calls a year; and if he will state what area in square miles is covered by the respective payments?Mr. MILLS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman consider the advisability of having a publicity department in order to allay the fears of the traders?Mr. MILLS
bona fidesby Private Notice (bona fidesby Private NoticeMr. MILLS
: Will the police officers return the box used for a very intimate and private domestic purpose which they took away in mistake for a State document?Mr. MILLS
: In view of the possibility of an alteration in the law by new legislation, will the right hon. Gentleman bear in mind that the working classes have to pay cash on delivery?Mr. MILLS
44.  asked the Home Secretary if there is any likelihood of the higher positions in the Civil Service being thrown open to competition, by which ex-service men could secure these appointments by competitive examination?Mr. J. ALLEN PARKINSON
: I must remind the House that the Motion, quite properly, is confined to a definite matter, and it is that definite matter we must discuss now, and not the general question of Irish administration. The matter in question is between General Crozier, General Tudor, and the Chief Secretary.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER (Mr. Whitley)
: Perhaps the hon. Member for Belfast will please allow me to preserve order.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: The hon. Member does not always keep quiet himself.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: Then keep hon. Members opposite quiet.Mr. DEVLIN
: If the Leader of the House rises he will not be allowed to speak.Mr. DEVLIN
: Is it the only one?Mr. DEVLIN
: So do we all.Mr. DEVLIN
: No. Do you want to know about Price?Mr. DEVLIN
: There were three bye-elections on at the time.Mr. DEVLIN
: Did he say anything to you at all?Mr. DEVLIN
16951694"It the control of the two services is kept under one Minister at the present time, and in the near future, that can, I believe, be done, and it is being done at the present time, and in my judgment it is the only way it can or will be done."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 11th March, 1920, col. 1623, Vol. 126.]1693: I rise to join my right hon. Friend (Major-General Seely) in deploring some, but by no means all the effects of the right hon. Gentleman's administration. But I cannot altogether accept his diagnosis of the case. The right hon. Gentleman ascribed the present condition of the Air Service to the fact that the right hon. Gentleman was undertaking two tasks at once, and possibly that was detrimental to the success of his work. But I cannot help feeling that an even more fundamental cause lies at the bottom of these troubles. I fear that even before that interesting volume, which I understand is to be entitled "My Part in the Last War," has seen the light of publication the right hon. Gentleman is completely obsessed with the preparation of his task in the next. I am sure that will be an equally magnificent task, but I entreat him, as far as civil aviation is concerned, to set aside these anticipations of the future for a very brief space and devote a little of his great energy to furthering the cause of civil aviation and research. I should like to call the right hon. Gentleman's attention to his previous remarks on the question of undertaking the dual functions of the
16951694"It the control of the two services is kept under one Minister at the present time, and in the near future, that can, I believe, be done, and it is being done at the present time, and in my judgment it is the only way it can or will be done."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 11th March, 1920, col. 1623, Vol. 126.]1693Mr. MOSLEY
: I have been asked to reply. I would refer my hon. Friend to the answer I gave on the 23rd February to the hon. Member for Ilford (Mr. Wise) and to the replies given yesterday by the President of the Board of Trade. I am sending my hon. Friend copies of these answers.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the BOARD of TRADE (Sir P. Lloyd-Greame)
1609: I am in course of appointing a Committee, of which Lord Dunedin has kindly undertaken to be the chairman, to enquire into the system under which taxation is raised for local purposes in Scotland. The incidence of
1609The SECRETARY for SCOTLAND (Mr. Munro)
: I am in communication with the Fife Education Authority regarding their building proposals. The case of the Cowdenbeath School will fall to be considered in this connection.Mr. MUNRO
: I cannot answer that question until the Report of the Committee is presented.Mr. MUNRO
: I am afraid there is no possible relief that can be given pending the Report of the Committee.Mr. MUNRO
: Certainly not before the Committee has reported, but as soon after as possible.Mr. MUNRO
: No.Mr. MUNRO
: It is not always easy to get suitable members to serve upon a Committee of this sort, which involves a great amount of time and labour. I have expedited the matter in every possible way. Pehaps the hon. Member will pardon me if I say that the suggestion as to the appointment of the Committee came from me and not from Scottish Members.Mr MUNRO
primâ facie,: I do not think, speaking primâ facie,Mr. MUNRO
66.  asked the Home Secretary whether he can throw any light on the disappearance of Robert MacDonald, organiser of the Stepney unemployed, who was last seen on Sunday, 20th February, at about 1.30 p.m., in conversation with two policemen; whether he has been arrested; and, if so, what is the charge against him?Mr. ROBERT RICHARDSON
55.  asked the Prime Minister whether a Proclamation has recently been issued by Lord Allenby prohibiting the payment of Egyptian workers and workers in Egypt of other nationalities of all contributions to trade unions or similar organisations; whether this Proclamation was issued with the knowledge and approval of His Majesty's Government; and whether immediate instructions will be issued to Lord Allenby to cancel a Proclamation which violates the right of the workers to form and subscribe to organisations for the protection of their own interests?Mr. R. RICHARDSON
: I have been asked to reply. The question of the further steps to be taken for the appointment of ex-service men to permanent posts in the Civil Service is under consideration by Lord Lytton's Committee, whose Report on the subject must be awaited.Colonel Sir R. SANDERS (Lord of the Treasury)
8.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs if any encouragement has been given to the issue by the Sudan Government of a loan for the building of the Kassala Railway, having regard to the employment which will be found in this country for the production of the necessary material; and has his attention been drawn to the opinion of a high financial authority that the Sudan Government is now capable of successfully issuing a loan without British Treasury guarantee?Mr. WADDINGTON
1618: Are not the restrictions and rules with regard to the putting of questions in this House definitely laid down in the Manual of Procedure which is in the hands of all Members, and would it not be more desirable that the Standing Orders on which those
1618Mr. RONALD McNEILL
: You must keep off the wasps.Mr. RONALD McNEILL
: How much longer is he to wait?Mr. GWYNNE
: If these papers have not been lost, may I ask why it is that this man has been kept waiting a year for money due to him, and has only just received, after urgent representations, a payment on account?Mr. GWYNNE
41.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the War Office whether he is aware that Mr. A. T. White, of 60, Longstone Road, Eastbourne, late lance-corporal, No. WR/199068, Royal Engineers, has not yet received a settlement of his Army account owing to the non-receipt of his last pay certificate from India; whether his last pay certificate has been lost; and whether, seeing that this man has been demobilised for over a year and that the War Office are in his debt to the extent of about £80, including time-expired bounty, refund of compulsory allotment stoppage, and gratuity, he will have the account settled forthwith?Mr. R. GWYNNE
: This is a Vote for which my right hon. Friend the First Commissioner of Works is responsible, but I believe I am right in saying that it represents the total expenditure.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Baldwin)
: You can end it.Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: I did not quite grasp that from the letter which the hon. Baronet wrote. The point I wish to make is that the carrier is as susceptible as any other vessel to attack, with destruction of everything in it. I trust that sooner or later—not immediately, by any means—the Naval wing will drop off and become a Naval Service pure and simple under the direction of the Admiralty, who, I am sure, will develop it much more rapidly and effectively than it is being developed at the present moment.Rear-Admiral ADAIR
1690: I should like heartily to congratulate the Secretary of State for Air on his admirable statement, with which I almost entirely agree. He referred to the complexity of the functions of the Air Force, and I thought that, in detailing them, he made an admirable case for a separate Naval Air Force. I have always been in favour of such a separate Naval force, and I regret that it ceased to exist after having been so ably started. That, however, has come about, and I am not speaking now with any intention of, to use the right hon. Gentleman's phrase, sweeping down upon and breaking up this delicate organisation. I agree that we must do nothing to break it up at the present moment. Sir Hugh Trenchard, however, in his memorandum of last year, referred to the Naval wing as having almost a separate constitution. I foresee that the Naval wing will gradually become separate from the other, and will eventually drop off and go back to the Navy. In the meantime, until that position has developed, I am by no means for breaking up the force as it stands to-day. After all, there are only three squadrons at present attached to the Navy. That is a very small item, and probably would not be a severe loss to the Air Force as a whole, but until the control and development of the Naval Air Force is in the hands of the Admiralty there will be no true development in that force. I associate myself with what
1690Rear-Admiral ADAIR
: I agree. I was associated with a party who put forward that idea eight years ago at least. The hon. Baronet was, however, corrected by the hon. and gallant Member behind him (Lieut.-Commander Kenworthy). He referred to the possibility of some thousands of aeroplanes dealing with the German battleships in the battle of Jutland, instead of a few destroyers. Those craft have got to start from somewhere, and, if they are carried in ships, how many ships would it take to carry them, and are not all of those ships susceptible to attack, with the destruction of everything in them, just as much as any other vessels? Furthermore, it must be remembered that in the future we shall not be dealing with short distances, such as that from here to Jutland. We shall be in the Pacific, with distances of thousands instead of hundreds of miles. The circumstances, therefore, will be very different, and the hon. Baronet's idea of one carrier in the middle of the Atlantic achieving the most extraordinary results was very far-fetched. That one carrier would have been an easy victim of any light cruiser with a speed of 35 or 40 knots.Rear-Admiral ADAIR
35.  asked the Secretary of State for War what is the number of officers holding Territorial Army commissions who are at present commanding Territorial Army divisions, Territorial Army Infantry brigades, and Territorial Army Royal Artillery brigades, respectively?Lieut.-Colonel CAMPION
52.  asked the Prime Minister when the House will have an opportunity of discussing the MilnerMr. W. CARTER
50.  asked the Prime Minister whether he can make any statement as to the situation in Vilna; and what progress the League of Nations is making with arrangements for the plebiscite in that area?Mr. W. CARTER
: Is the right hon. Gentleman in favour of necessary modifications?Mr. CARTER
51.  asked the Prime Minister whether he will consider the provision of credits for Central European countries in order to facilitate the restoration of trade between them and this country and so to diminish unemployment?Mr. W. CARTER
: Is it a fact that America made no loans to ourselves or the Allies except to cover payments made to America?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
bonâ fide: Did the United States lend no one any money which was not spent in their own country, and make no real bonâ fideSir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: May I ask, in view of the judgment which you have now delivered, that the action of the Governor may be criticised whether an appointment by a Governor of A or B is not an act coming directly under your ruling, seeing that the Governor is responsible to the Secretary of State for his action? We do not want to ask the views of yourself or of any other Members as to the acts of individual Ministers, but may we not, under your ruling, ask whether a Governor has appointed A or B as a Minister?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Why not?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
1682"One cannot look at a map of the world without seeing that Egypt is the centre of it from an aviation point of view."16811680: I beg to second the Amendment. Before I deal with civil aviation, I should like to congratulate the Secretary for the Colonies on the speech he has made. I think, however, that his criticism upon leading articles was a little out of place, because I seldom heard a speech which read more like a leading article. It used to be said of articles written by George Augustus Sala that whenever he wrote an article he did not mention the subject more than once but other subjects at least quite a hundred times. Although the right hon. Gentleman said this was the third time he had brought in air Estimates, I am afraid that it is the eighth time that I have criticised air Estimates in this House. I do not know that there is so much to criticise now, and I wish to congratulate the right hon. Gentleman upon the speech he has made showing the work which has been done by the military side of the Air Ministry. There are one or two points not of destructive but constructive criticism which I should like to make. The right hon. Gentleman raised a question of airships. It seems extraordinary that the whole of our airships are to be scrapped altogether and that the hangars, buildings
1682"One cannot look at a map of the world without seeing that Egypt is the centre of it from an aviation point of view."16811680Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
1683: I am pleased to have elicited that statement, because it has never been made public. Many of us who believe in the enormous possibility of an air attack have no idea that this position had been placed by Air Marshal Trenchard before that Committee. I want to tell the House how enormously the Air Service has developed. Hon. Members know how, at the beginning of the War, with only a few officers we were able to carry on until we had established our Air Service. The House knows what an enormous advance we have made, but I wonder if the House realises how much more effective our service would be if we had had an efficient torpedo-carrying aeroplane during the War. Nobody disputes the enormous power in naval warfare of the torpedo whether in attacking big ships or little ships. It is possible to have to-day torpedo-carrying aeroplanes flying at a height of over 10,000 feet, shutting off their engine so as to make no noise, and then gliding down at a speed of 140 miles per hour. They can carry a torpedo weighing 1,500 lbs., with 1,000 lbs. of T.N.T. All these details have been published in a technical paper so I am not giving any information away to possible enemies. I do not think that anybody yet realises the enormous possibilities of these aeroplanes. They would
1683Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
168616851684: Of course there would have to be ships to carry the aeroplanes, but we know there are magni-
168616851684Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
1691: I hope my hon. and gallant Friend will forgive me
1691Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: I meant an ordinary torpedo.Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
1687: I am sure my right hon. Friend is really a believer in the possibilities of civil aviation, and I suggest that a little help from the Government is very desirable. Air routes must be made. You cannot fly from here to Cairo or from Cairo to Mesopotamia unless the route has, so to speak, been blazed out, aerodromes provided and supplies of petrol laid down. There are 20,000 miles of air route being projected this year. Someone is going to carry out the work. Yesterday we had under our control 100 miles of air route from London to Boulogne. France is giving a subsidy to different companies which enables them to carry passengers from Paris to London for five guineas and to take goods at from 1s. down to 7½d. per lb. Services are being started to Brussels, Antwerp, and to Scandinavian towns. There are routes being laid out to Strasburg, Nuremburg and Prague, and before the end of this year there will be a route to Belgrade, Bucharest and Constantinople. France-has also obtained a monopoly in Roumania and Hungary. There were possibilities there for our own manufacturers to have entered into arrangements with the Governments of those countries and to take-over the civil aviation of both of them. The House knows that they are a vital link on the route to Constantinople. That has fallen through as far as we are concerned. An hon. Member asked just now what Germany was doing in civil aviation. Two years ago an International Air Traffic Association was. formed at the Hague, and the chair was taken by General Sir Sefton Brancker, one of our foremost flying officers. Last month that Association met at Berlin, and the chair was taken by a German. The English companies are out of it altogether. Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Holland were willing to come in with Great Britain, to link up their civil aviation with ours, and to take their machines
1687Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Military, probably, but I believe both. I do not wish it to be assumed for a moment that I say that the civil side is the more important. I strongly agree with my right hon. Friend that, while civil aviation is of importance, military aviation is of vital importance. The House knows that I am, and have been for eight years, the strongest believer in it, and the War proved the correctness of many of the forecasts which some of us made in 1913 and 1914. I am as strongly convinced as ever that the future success of any country in war will be in the air. Whether the success will be Great Britain's will depend entirely upon how the leaders of thought in the Cabinet deal with this matter. I plead for civil aviation, not merely because I think it would be fatal to have no civil aviation lines while other countries have them, but because it will provide a reserve in personnel and on the factory side of aviation for our military aviation when we want to increase it. It cannot be increased on an emergency unless there are the factories and the reserves of men. If we had ample civilian air services, the pilots would provide an ample reserve for military aviation, and could be called upon in a time of sudden emergency to fill up the ranks of the military air service. If, however, you have no civilian air service to-day, if your men are going to Japan and your factories are shut up, how are you going to expand?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
1689: I know it is money, money. My right hon. Friend is a little too frightened of the "Times." It never struck me before that he was either unduly modest or unduly frightened, and I should have thought that he would be able to stand up for the service in which he believes, and ask, if necessary, for a somewhat larger allocation of money. I really do not think, however, that any more money is necessary. We are spending £1,000,000 on civil aviation, and £880,000 of that is being spent on organisation, staff, meteorology, and so forth. What is the good of it unless you have some air routes? I am bound to confess that I stand here quite frankly in a white sheet. I have been against subsidies. I have spoken against subsidies. I have felt that the idea of subsidies is foreign to the whole trend of British opinion. In the
1689Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: I referred to the fact that £880,000 has been spent on civil aviation, and a great deal of it on bricks and mortar. It was the better allocation of that sum for which I asked.Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Is it correct to use the words "subordinate Parliaments" for the Legislatures of Canada and the Commonwealth of Australia? Is not that one of the things most resented in the Commonwealth, and is it not much more desirable, if we are going to frame a new Standing Order dealing with the powers of this House to question all these various Legislatures of the Empire, that the word "subordinate" should be carefully kept out in each case?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Is he the only one?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
48.  asked the Prime Minister to state who is to represent this country at the forthcoming International Transport Conference, which is to be hold at Barcelona on 10th March?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
1612: In accordance with the suggestion made by you, Sir, last week, I now beg leave to ask to move the Adjournment of the House in order to call attention to a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, "the lack of control of the Irish Administration
1612Captain REDMOND
H. H. TUDOR."Yours Sincerely,I think it will be best for you to keep these 30 temporary cadets suspended until I come back. I want to discuss it with the Chief Secretary. He gets all the bother. My main point is that it is an unfortunate time to do anything which looks panicky. I think also these temporary cadets will have a distinct grievance if the platoon commanders and sections leaders are acquitted. Tell these 30 they are suspended pending my return or, if you prefer it, keep them on by not completing their accounts till I come back."DEAR CROZIER,Tudor went over on the steamer that night. He wrote this letter to me on board and addressed it 'Brigadier-General Crozier, c/o Captain Robinson, Dublin Castie.' I found it in my letter rack in the Mess the next evening at dinner time."I replied, 'You mean my ex-cadets.' I said; 'That's all right. They are going over to-night. You must trust the men on the spot' (or words to that effect). He replied, 'Oh, all right.'1728At 6.30 on the 14th of February, 1921. Tudor 'phoned to me and said, 'What about
1728General Tudor had previously agreed to this action being taken. He had agreed that proper course was to dispense with services of the men who had been on the raid and to try the five or six ringleaders against whom was specific evidence that they were actual thieves and not only accessories. Having dispensed with their services I 'phoned to the Castle at noon to say I had done so.The five ringleaders were not only the seniors except one temporary cadet with the burgundy, but also were actually seen with stolen property.None of the men denied that they had been on the raid.The Company Commander had investigated their cases and sent them up with the others. These cases I investigated myself in the presence of my Adjutant.All the men implicated arrived at Beggars Bush on the 14th, a.m., and I separated the five ringleaders from the others. They were then all disarmed and the five marched over to a prisoner's cage. Remainder were placed under open arrest and I interviewed them again in the orderly room at Beggars Bush and told them their fate. I had original notes before me. There were a few men whom the Company Commander had been unable to place before me the day before as they were out on another job.There is a statement made by Mrs. Charles saying exactly what had happened. This was given voluntarily to the Company Commander when he went to pay his compensation by my orders. She was paid about £35.The five temporary cadets who gave information identified the ringleaders as being actually in possession of stolen property. For example, one was seen with a rug over his arm. Another man was seen with a bottle of burgundy.I stated to him that I considered everyone who had been on the raid was implicated, and that I was satisfied on this point. I proposed that the ringleaders and one temporary cadet against whom was specific evidence should be tried by Field General Court-Martial and that the remainder should be dispensed with as unsuitable for the Auxiliary Division. On the raid they had arrested Mr. Charles and brought him back in lorry and placed him in the guard room. He identified some of the property as his.1727I went back in half an hour's time but there was no evidence. At the inquiry a chit was put in as an exhibit that the house in question had been left intact by the search party. That chit was signed, I believe, by Mrs. Charles, and was obtained by force. Before leaving Trim I ordered the Company Commander to go straight out to Roberts-tow1727I said I was going to have a cup of tea and in half an hour's time I would be back in the orderly room, where I would receive any further evidence.During my search in the tenders it was reported to me that a man had thrown a kit bag full of groceries over the wall. I said nothing but sent somebody to search the other side of the wall, and under the grass and straw found other groceries in a kit bag with an old shirt on top. The kit bag and contents were retained by the Company Commander as an exhibit. The two rugs were found next morning in a barrack room. My time was getting short and I had to be back in Dublin before dark. The Company was now fallen in as I had ordered. I went over to them and spoke to them all. I stated that it was conclusively proved that disgraceful larceny had taken place by those who were in the Robertstown raid. I stated that they must remember it was a police constable's duty not only to detect, but to prevent crime and to report it, and although the idea of all hanging together was all right from one point of view, from the point of view of the police operating in a distressed country it was all wrong. I said it would be very much better if they made a clean breast of the whole thing, but I regretted I could not promise them anything less than removal from the Force, but that I would place the matter before the authorities in the event of further evidence coming forward.Everybody except the five people who gave information stoutly denied that any looting had taken place at all. I came to the conclusion that the Company Commander was not responsible as he was absent on duty with the Divisional Commissioner. I told the Company Commander on the conclusion of my inquiry to call the Company in again, which he did, while I went round and examined certain localities—canteen where sugar is stated to have been placed in full view of members of the Company drinking in the canteen. I also examined the Crossley tenders which had been used, and in the birdcage tender, and on the floor found sugar. Evidence had been given that bag had burst and a trail of sugar was made from tender to canteen. I tested the sugar. The notes I took were available in my orderly room at Headquarters when I left.A 200-lb. sack of sugar had been stolen. It had been carried off the tender by one man assisted by another and put into the canteen. Some 20 to 30 head of fowls had been taken and had been pooled for a dinner. Some jewellery had been taken, a picture, two rugs, brandy, whisky, grocery stores.1726This inquiry lasted 3½ hours. As the evidence came out bit by bit, because there
1726I arrived unexpectedly and immediately had all available men fallen in. I addressed them on parade, and told them a report had reached me that a disgraceful episode of looting had taken place on the 9th. That I would hold an inquiry forthwith. I went to the Company Orderly Room and examined every available person separately. During this inquiry the Company Commander, Major Daniel, was present and the 2nd in Command of the Company was also present. My Adjutant took notes and I did the examination.I went on Sunday, 13th, to Trim with my Adjutant.I interviewed the two cadets in my orderly room in presence of my Adjutant. In consequence of their statements, I went to Trim barracks to investigate on the 13th. Previously to this I 'phoned up Captain Robinson, private secretary to Tudor, and told him what I proposed doing, and he said 'Right.'N.B.—Tudor said to me it was very good of these follows to give me evidence in this way. Tudor told me there had been a tremendous amount of looting."Two cadets came up to Dublin purposely to see me to inform me of certain disgraceful conduct which had taken place on 9th February near Trim. They arrived 12th February. Before seeing me they bumped into Tudor at a hospital where they had been seeing a wounded comrade. They told Tudor all about it. Shortly after I met Tudor at the Castle, and he told me all about it. I went to my headquarters then, because I knew those men were waiting for me.1725dramatis personœ"I have had nothing whatever to do with it, and I knew nothing about it at all until it appeared in the 'Times' yesterday."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 23rd February, 1921, col. 932, Vol. 138.]1724: I beg to move, "That this House do now adjourn."H. H. TUDOR."Yours Sincerely,I think it will be best for you to keep these 30 temporary cadets suspended until I come back. I want to discuss it with the Chief Secretary. He gets all the bother. My main point is that it is an unfortunate time to do anything which looks panicky. I think also these temporary cadets will have a distinct grievance if the platoon commanders and sections leaders are acquitted. Tell these 30 they are suspended pending my return or, if you prefer it, keep them on by not completing their accounts till I come back."DEAR CROZIER,Tudor went over on the steamer that night. He wrote this letter to me on board and addressed it 'Brigadier-General Crozier, c/o Captain Robinson, Dublin Castie.' I found it in my letter rack in the Mess the next evening at dinner time."I replied, 'You mean my ex-cadets.' I said; 'That's all right. They are going over to-night. You must trust the men on the spot' (or words to that effect). He replied, 'Oh, all right.'1728At 6.30 on the 14th of February, 1921. Tudor 'phoned to me and said, 'What about
1728General Tudor had previously agreed to this action being taken. He had agreed that proper course was to dispense with services of the men who had been on the raid and to try the five or six ringleaders against whom was specific evidence that they were actual thieves and not only accessories. Having dispensed with their services I 'phoned to the Castle at noon to say I had done so.The five ringleaders were not only the seniors except one temporary cadet with the burgundy, but also were actually seen with stolen property.None of the men denied that they had been on the raid.The Company Commander had investigated their cases and sent them up with the others. These cases I investigated myself in the presence of my Adjutant.All the men implicated arrived at Beggars Bush on the 14th, a.m., and I separated the five ringleaders from the others. They were then all disarmed and the five marched over to a prisoner's cage. Remainder were placed under open arrest and I interviewed them again in the orderly room at Beggars Bush and told them their fate. I had original notes before me. There were a few men whom the Company Commander had been unable to place before me the day before as they were out on another job.There is a statement made by Mrs. Charles saying exactly what had happened. This was given voluntarily to the Company Commander when he went to pay his compensation by my orders. She was paid about £35.The five temporary cadets who gave information identified the ringleaders as being actually in possession of stolen property. For example, one was seen with a rug over his arm. Another man was seen with a bottle of burgundy.I stated to him that I considered everyone who had been on the raid was implicated, and that I was satisfied on this point. I proposed that the ringleaders and one temporary cadet against whom was specific evidence should be tried by Field General Court-Martial and that the remainder should be dispensed with as unsuitable for the Auxiliary Division. On the raid they had arrested Mr. Charles and brought him back in lorry and placed him in the guard room. He identified some of the property as his.1727I went back in half an hour's time but there was no evidence. At the inquiry a chit was put in as an exhibit that the house in question had been left intact by the search party. That chit was signed, I believe, by Mrs. Charles, and was obtained by force. Before leaving Trim I ordered the Company Commander to go straight out to Roberts-tow1727I said I was going to have a cup of tea and in half an hour's time I would be back in the orderly room, where I would receive any further evidence.During my search in the tenders it was reported to me that a man had thrown a kit bag full of groceries over the wall. I said nothing but sent somebody to search the other side of the wall, and under the grass and straw found other groceries in a kit bag with an old shirt on top. The kit bag and contents were retained by the Company Commander as an exhibit. The two rugs were found next morning in a barrack room. My time was getting short and I had to be back in Dublin before dark. The Company was now fallen in as I had ordered. I went over to them and spoke to them all. I stated that it was conclusively proved that disgraceful larceny had taken place by those who were in the Robertstown raid. I stated that they must remember it was a police constable's duty not only to detect, but to prevent crime and to report it, and although the idea of all hanging together was all right from one point of view, from the point of view of the police operating in a distressed country it was all wrong. I said it would be very much better if they made a clean breast of the whole thing, but I regretted I could not promise them anything less than removal from the Force, but that I would place the matter before the authorities in the event of further evidence coming forward.Everybody except the five people who gave information stoutly denied that any looting had taken place at all. I came to the conclusion that the Company Commander was not responsible as he was absent on duty with the Divisional Commissioner. I told the Company Commander on the conclusion of my inquiry to call the Company in again, which he did, while I went round and examined certain localities—canteen where sugar is stated to have been placed in full view of members of the Company drinking in the canteen. I also examined the Crossley tenders which had been used, and in the birdcage tender, and on the floor found sugar. Evidence had been given that bag had burst and a trail of sugar was made from tender to canteen. I tested the sugar. The notes I took were available in my orderly room at Headquarters when I left.A 200-lb. sack of sugar had been stolen. It had been carried off the tender by one man assisted by another and put into the canteen. Some 20 to 30 head of fowls had been taken and had been pooled for a dinner. Some jewellery had been taken, a picture, two rugs, brandy, whisky, grocery stores.1726This inquiry lasted 3½ hours. As the evidence came out bit by bit, because there
1726I arrived unexpectedly and immediately had all available men fallen in. I addressed them on parade, and told them a report had reached me that a disgraceful episode of looting had taken place on the 9th. That I would hold an inquiry forthwith. I went to the Company Orderly Room and examined every available person separately. During this inquiry the Company Commander, Major Daniel, was present and the 2nd in Command of the Company was also present. My Adjutant took notes and I did the examination.I went on Sunday, 13th, to Trim with my Adjutant.I interviewed the two cadets in my orderly room in presence of my Adjutant. In consequence of their statements, I went to Trim barracks to investigate on the 13th. Previously to this I 'phoned up Captain Robinson, private secretary to Tudor, and told him what I proposed doing, and he said 'Right.'N.B.—Tudor said to me it was very good of these follows to give me evidence in this way. Tudor told me there had been a tremendous amount of looting."Two cadets came up to Dublin purposely to see me to inform me of certain disgraceful conduct which had taken place on 9th February near Trim. They arrived 12th February. Before seeing me they bumped into Tudor at a hospital where they had been seeing a wounded comrade. They told Tudor all about it. Shortly after I met Tudor at the Castle, and he told me all about it. I went to my headquarters then, because I knew those men were waiting for me.1725dramatis personœ"I have had nothing whatever to do with it, and I knew nothing about it at all until it appeared in the 'Times' yesterday."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 23rd February, 1921, col. 932, Vol. 138.]1724Captain REDMOND
1734"report to Company to-night. Meet, Order of Police Adviser.""Twenty-six T.C."—17331732"is entitled to feel that he has absolute confidence in those in his command. He had no confidence in these seven men for reasons that satisfied him, but for which there was no evidence."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 15th February. 1921, col. 43, Vol. 138.]The PRIME MINISTER: After all, I believe an officer"—Lieut.-Commander KENWOHTHY: Why dismiss them?The PRIME MINISTER: You cannot do anything; beyond that without evidence against them.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY: Dismissed?"Seven of them whom all we can say is we suspect of being responsible for acts of indiscipline, although we cannot identify them, have been dismissed.17311730(Signed) F. P. Crozier."General Tudor said at the conference: 'I have promised these men they shall be taken back, and will go back to their own Company.'The 26 cadets returned not under arrest.1729"There is not the slightest doubt that when General Tudor returned from London and saw me at the Castle with the 17 Company Commanders, the Adjutant, and General Wood, that the intention he stated
1729The other details are set out in the interview which I granted to the 'Daily News' on Friday last and reproduced in that paper on Saturday the 26th.""On the 17th of February General Tudor said that he had talked over certain arrangements with Mr. Cope about the re-adjustment of the division; he indicated to me that the division would be broken up into two, and that I would have one half and someone else the other half, and that these men would be reinstated and put into the other division so that they would not be under me.: I thank the hon. and gallant Member for his correction. General Crozier proceeds:
1734"report to Company to-night. Meet, Order of Police Adviser.""Twenty-six T.C."—17331732"is entitled to feel that he has absolute confidence in those in his command. He had no confidence in these seven men for reasons that satisfied him, but for which there was no evidence."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 15th February. 1921, col. 43, Vol. 138.]The PRIME MINISTER: After all, I believe an officer"—Lieut.-Commander KENWOHTHY: Why dismiss them?The PRIME MINISTER: You cannot do anything; beyond that without evidence against them.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY: Dismissed?"Seven of them whom all we can say is we suspect of being responsible for acts of indiscipline, although we cannot identify them, have been dismissed.17311730(Signed) F. P. Crozier."General Tudor said at the conference: 'I have promised these men they shall be taken back, and will go back to their own Company.'The 26 cadets returned not under arrest.1729"There is not the slightest doubt that when General Tudor returned from London and saw me at the Castle with the 17 Company Commanders, the Adjutant, and General Wood, that the intention he stated
1729The other details are set out in the interview which I granted to the 'Daily News' on Friday last and reproduced in that paper on Saturday the 26th.""On the 17th of February General Tudor said that he had talked over certain arrangements with Mr. Cope about the re-adjustment of the division; he indicated to me that the division would be broken up into two, and that I would have one half and someone else the other half, and that these men would be reinstated and put into the other division so that they would not be under me.Captain REDMOND
: He was not a friend of mine. I never met him.Captain REDMOND
: When was this office created? I think it is a new title.Captain REDMOND
: Produce the records.Captain REDMOND
: Would the right hon. Gentleman kindly say whether he agrees with the statement of the Prime Minister in the House the other day, as to the action taken with regard to seven cadets after the alleged looting in Cork, that is, dismissal without any evidence whatsoever against them but on mere suspicion.Captain REDMOND
: Postal delay.Mr. W. THORNE
: Is it not a fact that the major part of the House all last year were urging the miners to produce a good deal more coal? In the name of common sense why are they growling now because they are earning more?Mr. W. THORNE
: In case of war, are not the Government of the day in a position to commandeer anything they like?Mr. W. THORNE
1656: I beg to move, "That MR. SPEAKER do now leave the Chair."1656The SECRETARY of STATE for AIR (Mr. Churchill)
: I say this not for the House but for the public at large, and for those members of the public who are certainly very much at large and who write about these subjects with the very greatest economy both of knowledge and of thought. I am very anxious to illustrate to them how foolish and wasteful it would be if we were to take advice which is pressed upon us from more than one quarter at present. It is said, for instance, "Is not the war over, was not the last war the war to end war"—Mr. CHURCHILL
1663166216611660165916581657: Or of anti-waste agitation. I have often felt, when listening to someone else speaking, that I could improve the speech by adding a third point. I am very much obliged to my hon. Friend for contributing a very real and effective and extremely well-chosen point. Instead of being removed by any of these causes, to which my hon. Friend has added a third, these subordinate officers will feel that their work will continue to be judged by the same men and valued by the same men, and that praise and blame may be made to be factors which are definitely worth striving to achieve or to avoid. There is absolutely no other way in which you can form a disciplined force worthy of the name or worthy of this country. There is no other way in which you can form a service which will be a real source of strength and honour to the nation, and which, moreover, will give some trustworthy return for the expenditure and labour which it demands. If this be true of armies and of navies, or of any great organisation requiring a high standard of efficiency and obedience, it is true in a particular degree of the Air Service. No more complicated service has ever been brought into existence in this world.1663166216611660165916581657Mr. CHURCHILL
: This baby has got to fly.Mr. CHURCHILL
: The Chief of the Air Staff and the Controller-General of Aviation gave the Committee full advice in regard to that matter in a long discussion.Mr. CHURCHILL
: My right hon. Friend the Joint Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury (Captain Guest).Mr. CHURCHILL
16651664: "And has it not ended by leaving such a feeling towards one another among all the nations of the world, among all individuals of every class in every part of the world that all idea of violence is entirely removed from human affairs? Has it not put an end to all international rivalry, has it not led to general disarmament? Has not our Empire become so quiet and tranquil in every part that we really could afford to rely solely upon moral suasion?" and so on. It is also said, "What do we want all this service aviation for? Instead of this let us go in for some splendid new development of civil aviation. Let us take seven or eight millions from the Royal Air Force and devote them to the pursuits of running airships and aeroplanes all over the country and all over the world." I do not say for a moment that those are not good objects in themselves if only we had the money for them, but when it comes to cutting in
16651664Mr. CHURCHILL
1672Laughter167116701669166816671666: That is very clever, but it is not relevant at all to the live criticisms which I am endeavouring to meet. The hon. and gallant Gentleman, who is always very ready to cast an informing interruption on the course of the Debate, should really, having so much practice, study interruptions a little more no as to make them more effective in point and more relevant. I have no doubt it will be said that in the year 1921 a great mistake had been made. I shall he told by those who are advocating the exact opposite to-day, that a very great mistake had been made in breaking down the Royal Air Force just at the moment when, by the skill and labours of Sir Hugh Trenchard and others, it had been
1672Laughter167116701669166816671666Mr. CHURCHILL
: The people of this island would be told that there were a large number of machines in existence which at any moment could begin shattering the houses of London, and more important still, the dockyards, the power stations, the magazines, the oil tanks and the technical armaments upon which the scientific life and defence of this country depend. There would be a frantic effort to revive the Air Service and you would have more articles in the "Times"; I can even foresee the character of those articles—Mr. CHURCHILL
171217111710: With the one exception of my hon. Friend, it is quite true that the general trend of the comments during the Debate was criticism because we are not doing more. There were tremendous arguments which it would be wrong for us to ignore, pointing to the cruel pressure of taxation now, and the imperative need of denying ourselves oven the most attractive and desirable forms of public expenditure and of confining ourselves to those primary necessities on which the security of the country depends. So far as that part of the Debate is concerned, I have certainly no complaint to make. But I do think the speech delivered by my right hon. Friend the Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean)
171217111710Mr. CHURCHILL
: I have said my say, and my right hon. Friend has said his, and if he has no ill-feeling about me, I can assure him I have no ill-feeling about him. But I would seriously and most respectfully ask the House for their permission in this matter. I have laid the Estimates before them, and explained them, with very little opposition or criticism. I would in these circumstances crave of the House their permission to discharge this other public duty, which I am very anxious to execute, and for which arrangements have long been made. I suppose it would have been possible for me to have had a warship sent, but I thought it better in these hard times, as far as possible, to use the ordinary conveniences, and it was that, and that alone, which placed me in this position of embarrassment. Therefore, I would submit to the House that there is not the slightest disrespect or want of consideration in my request that they should allow my right hon. Friend (Captain Guest), who has been giving a good deal of attention to preparing himself for the discussion, to take the Estimates through the remaining stages. As I have said, in ordinary circumstances, one day has sufficed, and the other stages have been practically formal on the Air Estimates, and I think I might in all these circumstances ask the indulgence of the House in that matter.Mr. CHURCHILL
: Hear, hear!Mr. CHURCHILL
: Money.Mr. CHURCHILL
: Military or civil?Mr. CHURCHILL
: And you save £5,000 a year.Mr. CHURCHILL
1702: I did not contradict my right hon. and gallant Friend (Major-General Seely) on that point, but that does not at all represent the exertions which I made. I was very much surprised that my right hon. Friend made a statement of the kind. It is obviously one that
1702Mr. CHURCHILL
: That is quite untrue.Mr. CHURCHILL
: Ten days.Mr. CHURCHILL
: I hope the House will now be prepared to allow us to get Mr. Speaker out of the Chair. We have had a Debate about which there is very little complaint to be made as far as the Government are concerned. It is quite true, as the hon. Member for Thanet (Mr. E. Harmsworth) pointed out, that the tenor of nearly all the speeches has been a reproach of the Government for not spending more money on the air, either in its military or its civil branch. Some have wished for a different allocation between one branch and another. My hon. Friend (Sir W. Joynson-Hicks) wishes for a different allocation which would facilitate further the development of civil aviation, without in any way prejudicing the importance of military aviation. That, means, I presume, that he would be in favour of spending more money.Mr. CHURCHILL
: I must ask for notice of that question.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
1590: In reply to the first part of the question, I
1590Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: My Noble Friend will have an opportunity very shortly of discussing the question on the Estimates.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: We are giving consideration to this question as quickly as possible, but the issue of medals is a long and tedious process.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: I am informed that the number of British officers and soldiers in the Army of Occupation on the Rhine who have married German women, up to 31st December, 1920, is approximately 112.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: No officers holding Territorial Army commissions are at present commanding Territorial Army divisions; eight officers are commanding Infantry brigades; two are commanding Royal Artillery, and 55 are commanding Artillery brigades.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: I am afraid that I cannot accept the suggestion of my hon. and gallant Friend. I am satisfied that the interests of the Territorial Army are very well represented on the Army Council by the Under-Secretary of State, who is the member of Council responsible for the work of the Territorial Army directorate in the War Office.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: There are two C.R.A.'s (commanding Royal Artillery) and 55 commanding Artillery brigades.Sir L. WORTHINGTON - EVANS
: I cannot answer that without notice.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. The post of private secretary to a member of Council is held sometimes by a lady, sometimes by a regimental officer, sometimes by a retired officer clerk and sometimes by a clerk of the higher division of the Civil Service. Only one member of Council at present has an assistant private secretary and this appointment will expire on 31st March next.The SECRETARY of STATE for WAR (Sir Laming Worthington-Evans)
: I am in hearty sympathy with the desirability of giving every opportunity of employment to those not able to get work elsewhere, but there are special reasons why these particular appointments should be allowed to stand. I have gone into this question myself, and am satisfied with the arrangement.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: Arrangements have been made for the withdrawal of the British Force in North-West Persia as soon as the passes are clear of snow and the road is fit for the movement to be effected.Sir L. WORTHINGTON - EVANS
: With the exception of three Indian infantry-units in Mesopotamia, arrangements have been made for the relief of all Indian units which have been away from India for over three years. The relief of the remaining three units is at present under discussion with the Commander-in-Chief in India.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: The Military Attachés at Paris and Washington are of the rank of major-general because their position and work at these important capitals at present necessitate this status. No aide-de-camps are borne on the establishment of Military Attachés.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: The question of the award of a medal for service at home during the War will receive further consideration as soon as the preparation and issue of the War medals is more advanced.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
14.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether an answer has yet been despatched to the note sent by Commissary Tchitcherin on 4th February with regard to the Russian trade agreement; and, if not, what is the cause of the delay?Mr. ALLEN PARKINSON
71.  asked the Secretary for Scotland if the proposal to erect a new school at Cowdenbeath at an estimated cost of about £44,860 is being proceeded with, or is this in abeyance?Sir A. SPROT
70.  asked the Secretary for Scotland if he has now devised any form of relief for the rural parishes and small towns in Scotland where the substitution of the county for the parish as the rating unit for education has occasioned great hardship due to the enormous increase of rates?Colonel Sir A. SPROT
60. 1602re asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer what investigations he has made into the merits and demerits of the Turnover Tax; whether he will reconsider his decision 1602reMr. HIGHAM
16971696: I listened with the greatest possible interest to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, which was a most brilliant, oratorical and literary effort, describing the perfection to which he has brought that delicate and elaborate machine, the fighting Air Force, during the last eighteen months. He begged, and that was the burden of his beautiful song, that nobody should come and thrust a poker into the delicate machinery and upset it just at the time when it promises to be the nucleus of what some day will
16971696Mr. BARTLEY DENNISS
: May I ask whether the term "re-enlistment" in the Army Order could not be construed so as to include the case of those men who applied to be re-enlisted but were refused permission and retained in Government employment, especially in view of the terms of the late Lord Kitchener's letter referred to.Sir E. JONES
26.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether, under Army Order 325, of 1919, pre-War pensioners employed by the Crown, and who-were refused permission to join the Colours in the late War on the ground of indispensability, cannot have their pensions reassessed; whether he is aware that the late Lord Kitchener issued a letter, which was posted up in the Army Ordnance establishments, to the effect that men serving in such establishments who were retained as indispensable were doing military duty equal in every way to those serving at the front; and whether, in view of this, he will give instructions-that Army Order 325 shall be amended so that the pensions of those men who were desirous of re-enlisting but were prevented from doing so shall be reassessed in the same way as those who re-enlisted?Sir EVAN JONES
69.  asked the Home Secretary whether he is aware of the recent destruction of plate-glass windows in Oxford Road, Manchester, by a Sein Feiner; what is the amount of damage; if there has been a considerable influx of Sein Feiners from Ireland to Manchester within the last few months; and if he will consider the desirability of issuing police regulations to stop such influx, obtaining, if necessary, statutory powers for that purpose?Lieut.-Colonel HURST
27.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether he can inform the House as to the number of British soldiers in the Army of Occupation who have married German wives?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Is it not possible to have a register without a subsidy?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman tell the House whether the Government intend to do something to persuade other countries to adopt the twelve months' visa system?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: If the women make themselves particularly efficient in these jobs, is there any reason why they should not be employed?Sir H. BRITTAIN
6.  asked the Undersecretary of State for Foreign Affairs as to the number of children who are being fed daily in Central Europe by American and British institutions?Sir H. BRITTAIN
7.  asked the Undersecretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether any progress has yet been made in dividing up the rolling stock, and particularly locomotives and goods wagons, between the various succession States; and whether there is any possibility in the near future of so overcoming the mutual distrust now obtaining between certain of these States in Central Europe that through goods trains may again be sent with impunity across the various frontiers?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Is not this almost the most vital question between these States to-day, and has there not been undue delay in this matter, which is holding up all trading?Sir H. BRITTAIN
68.  asked the Home Secretary whether, in view of the very serious effect which the prolongation of summer time up to 2nd October will have on harvesting operations in Scotland, and especially in view of the fact that thousands of acres of grain were lost last year from this cause, he will take steps to terminate the summer time on the 1st of September?Sir HARRY HOPE
: In view of the fact that the harvest in Scotland was so much destroyed last year because of this, will the right hon. Gentleman take steps to alter the time if representations are made from Scotland?Sir H. HOPE
"The time and manner of each advance can be determined only by Parliament upon whom the responsibility lies for the welfare and advancement of the Indian peoples.""Progress in giving effect to this policy can only be achieved by successive stages,"1615"The question was intended to hit the Minister through the body of the Governor."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, Thursday, 24th February, 1921, col. 1149, Vol. 138.]"The House having given practically Home Rule or something in the nature of Home Rule to these Councils, the lees it interferes with these Councils the better."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, Wednesday, 23rd February, 1921, col. 901, Vol. 138.]"That does not seem to be a matter for this Parliament.": I desire with your permission, Mr. Speaker, to raise a point of Order arising out of certain rulings which you gave on Wednesday and Thursday last, which rulings have given rise to anxiety in many quarters. That is due to an interpretation being placed upon them which I think they were not intended to bear. The point arose on Wednesday with reference to a question as to the action of a Governor in appointing a certain Minister, and you said, Sir,
"The time and manner of each advance can be determined only by Parliament upon whom the responsibility lies for the welfare and advancement of the Indian peoples.""Progress in giving effect to this policy can only be achieved by successive stages,"1615"The question was intended to hit the Minister through the body of the Governor."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, Thursday, 24th February, 1921, col. 1149, Vol. 138.]"The House having given practically Home Rule or something in the nature of Home Rule to these Councils, the lees it interferes with these Councils the better."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, Wednesday, 23rd February, 1921, col. 901, Vol. 138.]"That does not seem to be a matter for this Parliament."Sir H. CRAIK
1617: With all respect to your ruling, may I point out that I intended, and I thought I had conveyed my meaning, to confine my point solely to the question not of the case of Ministers dealing with transferred subjects but of the action of the officers responsible through the Secretary of State to this House in their general administrative acts. I was not referring to the transferred subjects at all. The appointment of those ministers is not a transferred subject. It is a matter for which the Governors are responsible, as I understand, to this House, but I gather from
1617Sir H. CRAIK
: Is it not a fact that the Treaty provides positively that such interference with British ships as is suggested in the question shall not be possible by the German Government under the Article quoted in the question?Sir FORTESCUE FLANNERY
: Is it not possible to requisition lorries without subsidising them?Sir J. BUTCHER
: Will the Government take advantage of the presence of so many Germans in London at the present time to press the question?Sir O. PHILIPPS
2.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the German Government is evading Articles 323, 327, and 368 of the Treaty of Versailles by withholding an emigration licence from the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company on the plea that, as a licence is stated to have been refused to a German line, no discrimina-is therefore being exercised against a British line; and whether, in view of the early inauguration of a passenger service by the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company between Hamburg and the United States, the Government will bring pressure to bear upon the German Government to carry out the Treaty, which clearly requires not only the abolition of German emigrant control stations, but that no obstacles should be placed in the way of any British steamship line participating in the emigrant traffic from, to, and through German territory on an equal footing with any German steamship lines?Sir OWEN PHILIPPS
9.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the terms of the Mandates for Mesopotamia and Palestine have been officially published; and whether any opportunity will be afforded to the House of discussing them?Sir PHILIP MAGNUS
47. 1599 asked the Prime Minister whether the Cabinet is considering any scheme, and, if so, what, for the stabilisation of exchange; whether there
1599Mr. CLOUGH
: Why did not France and Italy borrow direct from the United States for the arms, accoutrements and money they required rather than asking this country, with no money to lend, to provide them with funds?Sir W. DAVISON
62.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer why France and Italy did not apply direct to the United States for such loans as they required after the entry of the United States into the War, instead of applying to Great Britain, who had no money to lend and had to borrow the money from the United States in order to lend it to France and Italy?Sir W. DAVISON
: In view of the difficulty of working men paying large sums quarterly or annually, has the right hon. Gentleman considered the advisability of collecting the tax from their wages weekly through the employers?Sir W. DAVISON
63.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether nearly 15,000 workmen, chiefly colliers, in South Wales were summoned for non-payment of Income Tax during last year; whether one defaulter earned wages which in the aggregate amounted to £1,000 a year; whether £700 to £800 were common earnings; whether all arrears of Income Tax in South Wales have now been recovered; and, if not, in how many cases does the tax remain unpaid?Sir W. DAVISON
: Can the right hon. Gentleman give us an assurance that it is not intended that we should interfere with the affairs of Japan in Korea?Captain Viscount CURZON
1584: In view of the vast importance of this question to the Sudan, can the right hon. Gentleman ask the Leader of the House whether an opportunity will be given before, or just after, Easter to discuss the whole matter, especially in view of the fact that a loan
1584Earl WINTERTON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman give the House an opportunity of discussing this matter before a final decision is come to, in view of the strong opinion in the country that medals should not be given to men described as physically unfit to serve their country?Earl WINTERTON
: What support did they got from my Noble Friend and his followers?Earl WINTERTON
1588: Is that a very respectful way of speaking of women who
1588Viscountess ASTOR
11.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he is aware that the export duty on tea presses heavily upon an industry exposed at present to many adverse influences; and whether, in view of the comparatively satisfactory condition of Indian finances, the Government of India will abolish this novel additional impost?Sir J. D. REES
12.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he is in a position to give the House any information regarding action taken, or to be taken, upon the Esher Report?Sir J. D. REES
: Is the position altered by the resolution passed in the Legislative Assembly of India as regards the Esher Report? Does that resolution alter the position as regards the action to be taken upon it?Sir J. D. REES
13.  asked the Secretary of State for India what decision has been taken as regards the Burma Bill.Sir J. D. REES
: Will it be referred to a Select Committee?Sir J. D. REES
1778: Will the right hon. Gentleman take into account the fact that Dr. Denning, by the action of the Government of India, has suffered very severely in prospects, and although £500 may go some way towards compensating him there are other considerations in his case which ought to be continually in the mind of the Government with a view to reinstating this man in something like the position he had before he took service under the Government of Bengal. Will
1778Mr. ORMSY-GORE
: Can we have an assurance from my right hon. Friend that he will be a whole-hearted supporter of Imperial Preference?Sir W. JOHNSON-HICKS
23.  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty if he is aware of the inconvenience caused to the inhabitants of Hamble on account of the continued occupation of the river by motor launches; and, if these motor launches are to be disposed of, whether he will arrange that they should be moved periodically to other harbours so that more of the public may have an opportunity of seeing them, while, at the same time, less inconvenience would be caused to yachtsmen and the inhabitants of Hamble if the passage of the river were open?Colonel BURN
: It is a much larger question.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
34.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware that, owing to the minimum rates of wages fixed by Trade Boards for the dressmaking and millinery trade, large numbers of workpeople have been thrown out of employment; and whether he will suspend the operation of the rates during the present period of depression?Captain TUDOR-REES
: Is the Department going to continue the payment of this out-of-work donation to women who undoubtedly will not accept the employment placed at their disposal?Lieut.-Colonel Sir F. HALL
: This is becoming a Debate.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: Does the Employment Department refuse to give this out-of-work donation, or does the Department over which my right hon. Friend presides so admirably treat it, not with that care and attention which naturally it should have, with the result that many of these women get the payment, and thereby stultify the desires of those who wish to give them employment?Sir F. HALL
: I think that a definite question had better be put down on that point.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
roseSir F. HALL
: We must not argue the question.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
44.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he has any records to show the present number of unemployed agricultural workers; whether he is aware that there is a great quantity of work available in country districts; and what is the cause of unemployment existing in agriculture when both work and workers are available?Captain BROWN
: That is a question which ought to be put down.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
58.  asked the Prime Minister if his attention has been called to the reproduction in a French journal of a translation of an article in the "Daily News" by a Mr. Masterman, in which it is stated that the Irish guerilla forces have captured many hundreds of policemen and soldiers and have treated them with uniform kindness and courtesy and after a time released them, while the British Government have immediately hanged all the Sinn Feiners whom they have captured; if he will state the number of policemen and soldiers murdered by the Irish Republican Forces in 1919 and 1920, and the number of captured Irish hanged during the same period; and if the Government will take steps to secure publicity in France of the real facts of the question to counteract the inaccuracies that are now being circulated there through the instrumentality of certain political organisations in this country?Sir F. HALL
: Will it not only receive careful attention, but will it be acted upon, in order that the same publicity may be given in the French papers to the statement now made by the right hon. Gentleman as was given to the article which appeared in the French papers under the signature of a Mr. Masterman?Sir F. HALL
: An apology!HON. MEMBERS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman give an assurance that this information shall be published in the French newspapers?Sir F. HALL
: And in this House.Sir F. HALL
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say what is the sterling value of those figures on the present rates of exchange?Sir F. HALL
: The hon. Member had better put that question on Paper.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: I had a private notice question addressed to the Leader of the House which was postponed from yesterday, whether he will inform the House what are the so-called international troops of the League of Nations to which Switzerland has just refused a passage through the Republic's territories to Vilna on the ground that more troops may have to be sent to protect the original troops which may find themselves engaged in warfare, in which Switzerland may become involved; whether such a danger is peculiar—Sir J. D. REES
: This question is too involved. I have not seen it. It appears to me that it is a question which should be put on the Paper.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: This question was seen by Mr. Speaker and was called yesterday and at the request of the Parliamentary Secretary to the Leader of the House it was postponed until to-day. Therefore unless you rule that it is out of order I will finish the question.Sir J. D. REES
: I did not know that it was intended to ask it to-day. No doubt what the hon. Member says is correct.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: The remainder of this question was, "Whether such danger is peculiar to Switzerland or common to other nations subscribing to this League of Nations?"Sir J. D. REES
: With reference to the information I have received, may I ask the Leader of the House whether he will state what are the so-called international troops of the League of Nations?Sir J. D. REES
45.  asked the Prime Minister which Government Department is responsible for the 100 tons of coffee beans, part of a prize cargo, which have been lying in various stores in Middlesbrough since 1916; is he aware that about 47 tons of this coffee has been unloaded, stored, and reloaded no less than three times, at first being stored at Middlesbrough North Eastern Railway Dock, then transferred to Tyne Tees Wharf, and recently moved to Dent's Wharf; and if he will state the total costs incurred over this portion of the parcel from 1916 to date?Mr. TREVELYAN THOMSON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman take steps to see that this is cleared as soon as possible so as to avoid further loss?Mr. THOMSON
: The hon. Member had better repeat his question. The Government reply does not seem to be very relevant to the question now.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
54. 1805 asked the Prime Minister whether the Liquor Control Board recently acquired a large house in Carlisle for the purpose of
1805Major C. LOWTHER
: Would the right hon. Gentleman give an assurance to the House that he will advise that no unnecessary or great expenditure should be incurred pending the introduction of the Government Licensing Bill?Major LOWTHER
55.  asked the Prime Minister whether Sir Edgar Sanders has resigned his position as general manager of the Liquor Control Board's undertakings in Carlisle and district; and, if so, for what reason?Major LOWTHER
1806: Is it a fact that the Board is now without chairman and general manager, and can the right hon.1806Major LOWTHER
64.  asked the Minister of Health how the cost and workmanship of houses erected by building guilds compare with the cost and workmanship of similar houses erected by ordinary contractors for private profit?Mr. T. THOMSON
86.  asked the Minister of Health the size of the staff of the Director of Building Material Supplies and the annual cost of that Department; whether he is aware that that Department is a source of irritation to those engaged in the building trade; and whether, since it is a hindrance and checks progress in the erection of houses, he will take steps to bring it to an end?Captain TUDOR-REES
66.  asked the Minister of Health if he will consider the advisability, on the ground of economy, of having only one Parliamentary register yearly instead of two?Colonel BURN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say what would be the actual saving?Colonel Sir ALAN SYKES
: In any case the subject is quite out of order on the Report of this Vote, on which we are confined strictly to the subject-matter of the Vote, namely, the number of all ranks. A general Debate would not be in order on this occasion.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: I am much obliged to the hon. Member for putting the matter to me as a point of Order. The only question in order is whether this Supplementary sum is required for rates. It would not be in order to discuss and debate the various Departments and their staffs and the buildings they occupy.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I allowed the right hon. Member for the City of London (Sir F. Banbury) to put that point. Anything that helps Members of the Committee to obtain information with regard to items in the Vote would be in order, and I will give every facility to Members to obtain such information.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
1861: I think that is rather going into the details of
1861The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I can foresee an interesting discussion on the huts in the Park, and that would be out of order.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: No, not on that point.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
1862: No, I do not think so. This is a definite account for rates, and the question is as to whether the Committee agree that the Department should pay these rates, and whether they are satisfied that the Supplementary Estimate and the increased sum that is asked for is a proper sum to be asked for for rates. If the Committee approve the
1862The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I desire to allow as much latitude as possible, but the last time I rose to call the attention of the hon. Member for Wood Green (Mr. Locker-Lampson) to the point he was referring to was on the question of huts in the park. It is obvious to me that if I allowed that to continue other Members would discuss the desirability or otherwise of retaining the huts in the park. I shall not intervene unless I feel obliged to do so, but I must watch that the Debate is kept within proper limits.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: No. The question of what is in order must be left to the Chair.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
1863: I think the discussion must be confined to the point whether these rates are to be paid or not. If I allowed the discussion to
1863The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: The hon. Member will see that that is a matter for the Office of Works. The Committee discussed the Supplementary Estimates of the Office of Works last Friday, and they cannot have another Debate to-day upon the same Department.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I must point out there is another Vote on which to discuss policy. The only question now before the Committee is whether rates should be paid on these properties, not whether the Government should continue to occupy these premises. That question can be raised on other Votes which will come before the Committee some other time. In regard to the question raised by the hon. Baronet it seems to me fairly clear in this Vote £271,000 is due to the rise in the poundage on rates. That is quite clear, and that £77,000 is due to the continuation of war occupation. I do not think I should be performing my duty if I accepted a motion to report progress.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: What information is given to the Committee by the Minister in charge is a matter for the Minister and not for me, but I rule that this is not the time for discussing policy, nor is it the time to discuss the question whether these premises should be occupied or not. That matter is not now under discussion. The assumption is that these premises have been occupied, and what the Committee is asked for is whether they will authorise the payment of a supplementary sum for rates. That is the only question before the Committee at the present time, and if hon. Members object there is an Amendment now before the Committee to reduce that sum, and they can vote for that reduction if they are not satisfied. I think that the discussion should proceed on the lines I have stated.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: The hon. Baronet has given his reasons. I do not agree with him, and under the circumstances the discussion must proceed.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: That question may be put to the Minister from the point of view of general policy, but when it comes to the question of rates, supposing his answer is unsatisfactory to the Noble Lord, we cannot discuss it.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
1873: My object in endeavouring to-day to get rather more information on this particular subject is not in any way to attack the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, because I am perfectly certain he does far more to help us save money than to help us spend. But we are now faced with this additional sum required for rates, and what I want to get at is the proportion which comes from the various Departments. It should not be difficult to arrive at that, and if we look at the earlier Estimates in the year we see that for the Admiralty so much is required—a very considerable increase, incidentally, of nearly £100,000—for the War Department there is also a similar sum, and then there is the Post Office. As the Postmaster-General is present, perhaps he will be able to assist the right hon. Gentleman, and I think when questions of this sort are brought before the House, if I may say so very humbly, it would be rather more loyal to those who have to bear the heat and burden of the day if the various Departments concerned would help out the Treasury, which has all the blame—and most unjustifiable blame in many cases. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, so far as the Post Office was concerned earlier in the year, there was an increase of something like £90,000. I want to know, out of this additional sum now asked for, what goes to the Post Office, and, if possible, some details as to whether the amount is for new rateable promises or old rateable premises. But a very much more important point, to my understanding, than that is the question relating to the Ministry of Munitions. I believe it has changed its name—I suppose with the object of hiding its identity more or less—but earlier in the year we had an additional sum there of nearly £60,000. I want to know, just for information, which may be useful on a further occasion, what increase there has been in the amount of rates for property used by the Ministry of Munitions. This is supposed to be a dying Ministry, a defunct Ministry practically, and I want to know whether there has been a further increase beyond the £60,000 increase earlier in the year. There is only one other Ministry about which I am going now to indulge any curiosity, and that is
1873Lieut.-Commander WILLIAMS
: We cannot go into that question.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: It is quite right for the hon. and gallant Friend to ask information as to whether rates are paid on these particular properties. I only intervened when he began to discuss what those premises are used for.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
1876: It is clear from the lucid statement of the Financial Secretary that practically the whole of this supplementary increase is due to the increased rates, and he defended his position by saying that the practice in the past in budgeting ahead was not to include any possible increase that might take place in the rates. It may be presumptuous for me to say so, but I suggest that whatever might have been the practice in the past, it is a question to inquire into whether it is a sound business proposition to ignore entirely, when you are making your Estimates for the financial year, what are almost certain to be the increases likely to take place in the standing charges. Any ordinary business concern has to take into account the increased charges which it is probable it may have to pay during the coming year. Those who are experienced in local authorities, and in making up their accounts for the coming year know very well they have to estimate as nearly as they can the increases which will probably take place for wages, taxes and other purposes, and I submit to the right hon. Gentleman that it would be worth considering whether it does not make for sounder finance to budget ahead on an estimate of what is likely to be the expenses for the whole of the Departments, including the increases in rates. Last year the right hon. Gentleman in introducing the Supplementary Estimates apologised for the sum of £213,000 which was then the supplementary increase required, and said that increase was due to the rise in wages and the rise in rates, the same as this year. Last year it was £213,000, this year it is £328,000. I put it again to him that it would make for sounder finance if he took into consideration and estimated as near as his Department can what would be the likely extra charges in the forthcoming year. He referred to the education rate in the London area as being responsible for some of the increase. That was an ascertainable fact because it was due to legislation promoted by this Government. Reference has been made to the rating of Government property in various local authorities. We were told by the right hon. Gentleman that wooden huts do not pay rates. I would like to ask him whether all property owned and leased by Government Departments pay rates in their particular local area. With regard to the assess-
1876Mr. T. THOMSON
quid pro quo,1877: The Secretary to the Treasury will no doubt, in the course of his reply, answer the question put to him by the hon. and gallant Member for Central Hull, who asked if we were still paying rates on that property known as Chesham House, where the Russian Embassy used to be. While he is answering that, I would like him to state whether we pay the rates of that luxurious suite of buildings taken by Mons. Krassin in a luxurious thorough-fare in London? Of course, the hon. and gallant Member for Central Hull will say the people in Chesham Place represented nobody and the people in Bond Street did represent somebody. Perhaps they did then. Do they now? On the larger question of the rates on houses occupied by the representatives of foreign Powers, I also want to ask the Secretary to the Treasury one or two questions. I remember last year I raised a similar question to this. We had then the great house in Carlton House Terrace, formerly occupied by the German Em-
quid pro quo,1877Colonel NEWMAN
: The right hon. Baronet is not in order in discussing these increases in rates.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN (Mr. J. W. Wilson)
: It was ruled a little while ago from the Chair that details as to particular buildings could not be entered into under this Vote.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I think the hon. Member has already given his illustration and should be content with that.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: They would not go out.Captain S. WILSON
: No, this Government.Captain WILSON
1893: I should like to join my Noble Friend in urging that the party which we know as the Anti-Waste party should give us a little help. We heard a great deal about their coming, but since they have arrived in this House they have helped us by their presence rather than by what they have said, and many of us are beginning to feel that the feebleness of that party is going to reveal the febleness that distinguishes the "Wee Free" section of the Opposition. It would be a sad beginning
1893Lieut.-Commander WILLIAMS
: I beg to ask leave to withdraw my Amendment.Major LOWTHER
1904liaison: I wish to ask how much of this sum represents increase of salary to the Secretary, how much is allowances for private secretaries, how much for substitution of male for female staff, and for provision of additional temporary staff. I think we ought to know why exactly Sir Maurice Hankey's salary is being raised, what it is being raised from, and to what. I am sure nobody in the Committee would grudge Sir Maurice Hankey a single penny. There is probably no more valuable servant of the State to-day. Again, what is this additional temporary staff? Is it a staff doing the work in connection with the League of Nations? I understand that at present the work of maintaining touch between the British Government and our representatives on the Council of the League is not being done, as it ought to be done, by the Foreign Office and by this Cabinet Office. Has this additional temporary staff, in connection with the Cabinet Office, been enlisted in order to deal with the 1904liaisonMr. ORMSBY-GORE
1905: I wish to answer the points raised by my hon. and gallant Friend (Mr. Ormsby-Gore). I may, perhaps, be able to save the time of the Committee by making one or two remarks on this Vote. The word "additional" ought not to have been inserted. The staff is exactly the same, the only change is that there are fewer temporary women, and more temporary men. The increase in the period under review for the substituted staff comes to about £1,100 out of £3,000. The total extra cost there would be on this Vote in a whole year, and the substitution of ex-service men for women, would be about £1,400. I may take this opportunity of reminding the Committee of a fact, which probably they already appreciate, that the substitution of ex-service men for women is leading to considerable expense in Government offices—an expense which has to fall in with the prevailing opinion—and the Committee must be prepared to support the Estimate when it comes before it. Sir Maurice Hankey's salary was raised from £2,000 to £3,000 in conformity with the recommendations of a small Committee, which sat under the chairmanship of the right hon. Member for Paisley (Mr. Asquith). Of this £3,000,
1905Mr. BALDWIN
: Then I understand it is not true that any part of this Vote is chargeable to the work of the League of Nations?Lord ROBERT CECIL
: No. There is no additional staff; it is exactly the same as it was a year ago, and is occupied on exactly the same business as it was then.Mr. BALDWIN
1906: I beg to move to reduce the Vote by £;3,000.1906Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: The sum granted in this Vote is not a very large one. I am a good deal mystified by the salary for the Minister without Portfolio. My impression was—Mr. MARRIOTT
: That is not on this Vote at all. It comes out of the Appropriation-in-Aid.Mr. BALDWIN
"to all officers in respect of salaries rising to £600 a year, and virtually to all officers of salaries between £400 and £600 a year. The Committee suggests that this Regulation involves unnecessary expense to the Exchequer, and they recommend that in future no officer receiving a salary, exclusive of War bonus, at a rate of less than £1,200 a year should be allowed that privilege.""The privilege of travelling first-class on railways is at present allowed"—1907: I beg your pardon; I withdraw entirely on that point. My mystification is dispersed on that matter. I would not for one instant suggest any opposition to the raising of the salary of the particular official who is concerned in this Vote, but I am a little bit mystified as to whether it is a special or general increase. On that point, perhaps, the Committee would feel more readily disposed to grant this Vote if they could be assured that there is no general increase in the permanent salaries to the permanent heads of the Civil Service. I do not know if this is meant to be a tem-
"to all officers in respect of salaries rising to £600 a year, and virtually to all officers of salaries between £400 and £600 a year. The Committee suggests that this Regulation involves unnecessary expense to the Exchequer, and they recommend that in future no officer receiving a salary, exclusive of War bonus, at a rate of less than £1,200 a year should be allowed that privilege.""The privilege of travelling first-class on railways is at present allowed"—1907Mr. MARRIOTT
1908: I have not risen to support the reduction of the Vote, and I think the Financial Secretary to the Treasury very fairly answered the criticisms of my hon. Friend the Member for Stafford (Mr. Ormsby-Gore), who testified to various shortcomings and faults in the Department, of which, having served in it, I presume he was himself to some extent an illustration. Reference was made to an obvious feeling on the part of this House that males should always be substituted for females. I hope that is not the case irrespective of cost.1908Sir J. D. REES
: Hear, hear!Sir F. BANBURY
1909: On many railways they are even better than the first-class carriages, because they are not so stuffy, velvety, and upholstered with the same uncomfortable opulence. If the Government would only deal with them in that fashion we should have a saving on these Votes. In conclusion, I would add that
1909Sir J. D. REES
: My right hon. Friend did not quite reply to the original question put by my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Stafford (Mr. Ormsby-Gore) in connection with the undertaking of Foreign Office work by this Department. He did reply to the Noble Lord the Member for Hitchin (Lord R. Cecil) that the increase in salaries was in no way due to the undertaking of liaison work at International Conferences and work in connection with the League of Nations. Presumably, some of the travelling and incidental expenses in connection with International Conferences was due to the fact that the Cabinet Offices are to-day undertaking work which properly belongs to the Foreign Office, and that raises a very great question. Personally, I cannot vote for an Estimate which means the continuance of a system which I believe to be thoroughly vicious. The Prime Minister to-day surrounds himself with a staff of amateurs who improvise settlements in a European situation of peculiar difficulty and complexity, and the relationship between the expert Foreign Office staff and this band of amateurs is highly anomalous.Mr. MOSLEY
: We are not now discussing the original Vote, but only the Supplementary Vote.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN (Sir E. Cornwall)
: May I point out, with all respect, that under Item C we find "provision for increased fares and for additional expenditure on travelling in connection with International Conferences," and I submit that this additional item would not be necessary unless the Cabinet Offices were usurping the proper functions of the Foreign Office.Mr. MOSLEY
: That principle has been agreed to by the original Vote, and the only question now is whether £500 more should be granted for that service, not whether the Vote should be there at all.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
1910: The Cabinet Offices staff are to the extent of £500 undertaking additional work that should belong to the Foreign Office, and I submit
1910Mr. MOSLEY
: I could not allow that matter to be discussed now. On the original Estimate £2,000 was granted for this purpose, and that is when the principle was settled. Now the only question is one of £500 excess payment for travelling and incidental expenses, and it would not be in order to discuss the desirability or otherwise of having a staff for this purpose or the work they do.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I notice that on the original Estimate this sum of £2,000, to which you, Sir, refer, includes sums other than travelling expenses, because it says, "Newspapers and miscellaneous expenses." I therefore submit that it is not only putting £500 on to the £2,000, but it really is more, because the travelling expenses were less than £2,000, and therefore this increase of £500 is relatively a very large sum. I submit to you on a well-known principle that where the increase is a relatively large sum then you can rediscuss the question of policy.Sir D. MACLEAN
: I quite agree with the right hon. Gentleman. If the amount of the Supplementary Estimate is very large as compared with the original Estimate, then the Chair, in the exercise of its discretion, can allow a discussion on the original question, but I do not read into this Supplementary Estimate any such comparatively large increase. I do not think it is sufficiently large a sum to warrant me departing from the ruling I have already given.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I understood my hon. Friend behind me took the point of the travelling for the International Conferences. In your discretion, you may rule against him, but that was the point he took, that the travelling to these International Conferences showed that this particular Department in his view was interfering with the recognised functions of the Foreign Office.Sir D. MACLEAN
1911: That is exactly what I ruled out of order. It is not in order to discuss the question whether this Department interferes with the work of the Foreign Office. That was
1911The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Am I entitled to ask to what extent this additional sum of £500 implies that the Cabinet Offices staff are taking over functions from the Foreign Office additional to those contemplated in the original Estimate?Mr. MOSLEY
: Certainly.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Then may we be told by the Financial Secretary to what extent the Cabinet Offices staff are taking over the functions of the Foreign Office beyond what was contemplated in the original Estimate, and which conferences the members of the Cabinet Offices staff attended instead of the representatives of the Foreign Office? At any rate this Supplementary Estimate represents a great aggravation evidently of a system to which we have already taken exception, and the evil is constantly growing. The cloud which was originally no bigger than a man's hand is to-day beginning to overshadow the whole European situation, and the Prime Minister, surrounded by a band of amateurs—Mr. MOSLEY
: The hon. Member is going quite away from the point.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman, when he comes to reply, be so good as to tell me to what this additional £500 applies?Mr. MOSLEY
1912: I want to ask one question of the right hon. Gentleman, but, before doing so, I should like to protest against the assumption of the hon. Baronet the Member for Nottingham (Sir J. D. Rees), that it is only in third-class carriages that malevolent people travel. The only people I have discovered travelling in first-class carriages nowadays are burglars and war profiteers. I think it is some reflection on people who travel in third-class carriages to suggest that it is only these people who would be eavesdroppers, out for malevolent purposes, when great officials of State are travelling about. As a matter of fact, I think they would be more disregarded in third-class carriages than in first-class. The right
1912Dr. MURRAY
: I only want to reinforce the remarks made by the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Marriott) with regard to travelling allowances. I have asked the Financial Secretary questions as to whether he has been making any change in the system under which a large number of officials are given first-class fares, taking into account the increased cost of travelling to-day. He gave me an answer last year that the question was under revision, and therefore I would ask him whether any system has been adopted under which fewer officials travel first class to-day than travelled, we will say, first class a year or two ago. We do feel in these days, when so many of us are travelling third class, that there should not be a very large number of civil servants travelling first class.Major WHELER
: I want to ask for information before we decide whether we will support the reduction moved. Do I understand the salary of the Minister without Portfolio is included in the Estimate until March 31st?Mr. T. GRIFFITHS
: It was in the original Estimate for the whole year.Mr. BALDWIN
: Did I understand the right hon. Gentleman to say that the Minister without Portfolio ceased after 31st March?Mr. GRIFFITHS
: He ceased when he went to the War Office the other day.Mr. BALDWIN
1913: But is the office to be continued or discontinued? Because the Leader of the House stated last week that this office was going to be discon-
1913Mr. GRIFFITHS
: Although the Vote includes the salary and expenses of the office of the Minister without Portfolio, that is in the original Vote. I do not understand there is any money in the Supplementary Vote for that purpose, so that that does not arise.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Perhaps I can get the Minister to say whether this office is to be continued. If it is to be continued, then we shall protest against it, and go into the Division Lobby with the Mover of the Amendment, because we. think this office now ought to be dispensed with, and that we should endeavour, as much as we possibly can, to curtail expenditure in the interests of the taxpayers of the country.Mr. GRIFFITHS
"A further sum of £3,700 has been provided in the Supplementary Votes for War Bonus (H.C. 148 and 219) in respect of charges falling on this Vote.": This is the first Estimate of many which we are going to discuss in which there occurs a footnote such as
"A further sum of £3,700 has been provided in the Supplementary Votes for War Bonus (H.C. 148 and 219) in respect of charges falling on this Vote."Colonel NEWMAN
: Not for the upper officials.Sir H. CRAIK
1914: The officials in this particular Ministry are not all upper officials. How can the official who made up that sum of £3,700 say that it will be
1914Colonel NEWMAN
1915: The point which my hon. and gallant Friend has raised is a very important one. As he says, this additional grant is not properly indicated on the Vote, and I hope that that suggestion will be borne in mind by my right hon. Friend in the preparation of these Estimates. These most important matters should be properly spaced out, and not placed in such small letters as to escape the attention of busy Members of the House who are not experts on Estimates. What really is the increase with which the Committee is faced? My right hon. Friend will recollect what happened one early morning between 1.30 and 2 o'clock when we let through the Committee stage of a very large supplementary War Bonus. This £3,700 is part of that which has been allocated to this Department, and therefore the actual increase which this Department has received in the current financial year beyond the £28,525 plus £2,000 travelling expenses. The Committee is now really putting its seal of approval to another £7,200, because that sum of £3,700 is an allocated portion of a large sum of £4,000,000 or £5,000,000 granted to the Civil Service as a whole. Under those circumstances I want to ask my right hon. Friend one or two questions. First of all, how much more is Sir Maurice Hankey getting, and, as a consequence of that, is the usual course to be adopted of all the other principal assistants and all the rest of them going up in proportion, and what will be the result, so far as it at present can be calculated, of allowing this increase to be placed upon this Department? How many more are going to get increases of salary, and how much are they going to get, and what, taking the last original Estimate, is the total? Those are questions which are worth answering. Never was it more necessary for the Government themselves and their servants to show an example to the country. Unemployment is rampant, and it is not confined to what are called the manual workers. It is rampant among the professional and the clerical classes, those who are called black-coated workers, and yet these increases are to be given to civil servants, who suffer
1915Sir D. MACLEAN
: The same as Members of Parliament.Mr. STANTON
1916: I agree with you. Speaking personally, I think one of the worst examples this House could show would be to add to the salaries or allowances of Members in the present state of affairs. [HON. MEMBERS: "NO, no!"] I am entitled to express my opinion, and I do so. That is the view I hold, and which ever way hon. Members vote on this matter, they will have to be consistent when the question of their own allowances comes up. We are passing through a crisis of real magnitude, and we must give a lead in these matters, and
1916Sir D. MACLEAN
: I rise, as an old civil servant, to join in what has been said from the opposite Benches with regard to this Vote. I would prefer to discuss this matter upon a general Vote, but as it is we can only discuss it on these small items, applied to particular cases. The principle is involved, however, and I will tell the Committee what the principle is. It is not the case that the salaries which have hitherto been paid in the Civil Service continue on the same scale. In almost all cases the higher posts in the Civil Service have lately been paid on a scale altogether different from what was the case not many years ago, and in addition to that we are now asked to vote a bonus in every case—Sir H. CRAIK
: On a point of Order. There is not a penny of money in this Supplementary Estimate for bonus of any kind, and it seems to me that that topic is out of order. The question of war bonus can be discussed fully on the War Bonus Vote.Mr. BALDWIN
: I was listening to the right hon. Gentleman and I understood that his objection was to any increase in the salaries of any of the civil servants, and especially of any civil servants mentioned in this Supplementary Estimate, and in so far as that was his intention he would be in order, if, however, he wishes to refer to any expenditure on war bonus, that comes up on an Estimate on page 36. The right hon. Gentleman will see that the original Estimate was £11,850,000, and a Supplementary Estimate of £800,000 has been asked for war bonus, and that will be the time to discuss anything in connection with war bonus. It is only in so far as this Supplementary Estimate proposes to make provision for increased salaries and for private secretaries, etc., that discussion would be in orderThe DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I bow to your decision, Sir Edwin. I was led into the course I was taking by the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean) which I thought you considered in order.Sir H. CRAIK
: He did not refer, as I understand, to war bonus.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: No, I was not referring to war bonus.Sir D. MACLEAN
: Then I shall raise the question on the Vote for war bonuses.Sir H. CRAIK
: I hope the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Lieut.-Commander Kenworthy) will go to a Division, because I think what the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Peebles said in a previous Supplementary Estimate is very true in regard to this one also. The Secretary for the Treasury expressed painful anxiety to cut down these travelling expenses. He said they caused him considerable anxiety. The sum itself is not enormous, as sums go in these days, but it is only by rigorously looking after these small amounts that we can get into a proper atmosphere of economy again. If we are careful of the pence the pounds can take care of themselves, and it is necessary that we should get into that economical frame of mind. Not so long ago railway wages were discussed and a very wise principle was laid down, that the increases should be dependent upon the cost of living. At the present moment the cost of living is on the decrease and I think civil servants might set a good example by realising that fact and not pressing claims at the present moment for increases of salary. They might at least wait until the country is in a more stable financial situation. It is in order to reinforce the protest which I am sure the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baldwin) makes very strongly to the spending Departments that I shall support the hon. and gallant Gentleman in the Lobby.Major C. LOWTHER
: After the Debate on the Air Ministry Estimate yesterday involving a sum of nearly £24,000,000, when the speakers were not by any means bitter in their criticism of the expenditure, I cannot help thinking that to-night we are rather in the position of straining at the gnat after having digested the camel somewhat easily. But I join issue with the Secretary to the Treasury on the same grounds as the hon. Member who represents Labour on the Front Bench. We object to the continuance of an office which has no longer—Mr. MILLS
: I have already ruled that out of order, and I cannot allow it to be re-opened now.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I only hope that in the reply the Secretary to the Treasury will give us some idea as to whether or no the statement of the Leader of the House is to be acted on in good faith—Mr. MILLS
: The hon. Member must not raise again a point which has already been ruled out of order.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: If I am again out of order I will try again and see if I am more lucky this time. If we are to be confined to travelling expenses, the question as regards first and third class expenses does not interest us much, because the third-class carriages on some lines are very much better than the first-class on others. The real point, after all, is the principle of allowing in the mass the increased allowances for travelling, for, if we are to judge by the results, there appears to be no justification whatever for it. There have been no results worthy of the name, and it is because we go from conference to conference, and yet the mess appears to be greater than ever, that I, for one, will support the hon. and gallant Member for Hull (Lieut.-Commander Kenworthy).Mr. MILLS
1919: I would like to give my right hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Baldwin) a ray of encouragement, because I am perfectly certain his is a genuine desire to cut down these very large bills for travelling expenses which he finds in all Departments. I believe that if approached in the proper way a very large proportion of the civil servants would consent to have the class in which they are entitled to travel altered from first to third. I can give my right hon. Friend a small personal experience in this matter. The other day I was out, in my capacity as a Forestry Commissioner, inspecting an estate which we wanted to buy. We went 20 or 30 miles by train after doing our day's work. I automatically took a third-class ticket, but the two officials, the district officer and the divisional officer, with whom I was travelling, took first-class tickets, also quite automatically, and I had to change from the third to the first class in order to travel with them, which I did not like at all, because I could not afford it. Then we got into talk about this subject. They said they would be perfectly happy to travel third class in future if the same regulation applied to officers of similar
1919Mr. ACLAND
1920: I just want to state that as one who felt he had a grievance some time ago and who happened to be upon the Committee dealing with the salaries of Members, and having gone into the whole matter and fought it right through until we had a majority on that Committee, we thought, looking around and knowing what was going on outside in the country, realising that hundreds of thousands of men who risked their all at the front were to-day out of work and doing very badly, we should endeavour to set a good example, although we felt we were entitled to something. Is that good example to be lost on this Committee and on these higher officials? I do not question the amount of work they do, but as an old trade unionist, and as one fairly able to judge what is fair between one mind and another according to services rendered, I hardly think that this House takes that serious view of the position that it should. I fail to see why this amount should be voted and voted so readily to this Minister or to any Minister. With regard to the question of first-class travelling, I suppose everyone requires convenience. I can understand Government officials demanding necessary convenience when they travel,
1920Mr. STANTON
1921: I did not quite understand the right hon. Gentleman when he was dealing with the salary of Sir Maurice Hankey. He said it had been increased from £2,000 to £3,000 by a Committee presided over by the right hon. Member for Paisley, and he went on to say that £1,100 of this £3,000 was due to that increase. I fail to see how the increase of £1,000 is going to take £1,100. If it is for Sir Maurice himself and part of his staff, that alters the whole situation. The right hon. Gentleman did not make that clear, but he may do so later on. I have only two criticisms to make. I feel disposed to vote against another Supplementary Estimate on the ground of absence of adequate information. I am thoroughly convinced that very few Members of this House, unless they have had a very lengthy experience, are in a position to judge exactly what is involved in these Supplementary Estimates. One hon. Member of the Front Bench said that these sums are not enormous. Enormity is purely a question of relationship. I do not know whether these sums are enormous or not. If I take a ticket at Whitehall and they charge me a shilling instead of 1½d., the question of relationship is not large in relation to £300 or £400, but it is a very great sum
1921Mr. SPENCER
1922: I regret it is not possible by some omnibus Resolution of this House to lay down a definite rule with regard to this question. In my opinion, it is time to do away with this remnant of snobbishness that, somehow or other, classes have to be separated. Although this matter is a comparatively small one, I hope this House will raise its protest against a certain class of officers taking steps to separate themselves from others.1922Mr. BRIANT
: I think I can allay the anxiety of my two hon. Friends who spoke last. These figures for travelling expenses include travelling and all charges of subsistence at hotels, or wherever the officers may be during their absence on that travelling. With regard to the number of Cabinet officers, I should like to assure the Committee that the usual number who travel to these conferences is four. They are all high and confidential officers, and it is essential for the conduct of business that they should all travel together and keep in touch with the Ministers throughout their journey. When you have regard to the fact that conferences have been held, two in Paris, one at Lucerne, one at Boulogne, one at Brussels and Spa, and two to meet our Allies at Lympne, I do not think these figures are excessive.Mr. BALDWIN
: Does this £500 cover the whole of the extra expenditure of the extra conferences?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Yes, that is so.Mr. BALDWIN
: Does this entirely cover these expenses?Sir W. BARTON
: Together with the money voted in the original Estimate for Cabinet officers to travel to these conferences. There were one or two questions raised which I ought to touch upon. My hon. Friend the Member for Harrow (Mr. Mosley) raised a point which is really a question of policy, with which I cannot deal. The question was, how far the policy of holding these conferences interferes with the kind of work the Foreign Office used to do? That matter cannot be discussed on this Vote, though it is a proper subject on other occasions. Of course, the representatives of the Foreign Office attend in their official capacity all these conferences to which I have alluded. I do not think there is any doubt in the mind of the Committee as to what I said about the Minister without Portfolio. With regard to whatever may happen next year, I would remind the Committee that the Vote on Account will shortly be taken for the Civil Service. The Vote for the Cabinet Offices will appear there, and if the question be asked then as to whether any provision is to be made for the Minister without Portfolio, that question will be fully answered. I doMr. BALDWIN
: Am I to understand that this post is not filled at the present moment?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: No, it is not.Mr. BALDWIN
: Surely, there will be some saving in the salary for about three months?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Not so much as that, but there will be a saving.Mr. BALDWIN
: What is the salary of Sir Maurice Hankey and what effect will that have on his subordinate staff?Sir D. MACLEAN
: I said the first time I spoke on the subject that his salary had been raised from £2,000 to £3,000. If my recollection serves me, the Chancellor of the Exchequer gave a long answer to a question on these high-grade salaries in the House during the present Session.Mr. BALDWIN
1926: I wish to inquire about the banking operations in which the Government have been engaged in Ireland in connection with their examination of banking accounts. I understand that experts have been sent over to Ireland to examine accounts, which the banks have been forced to disclose, and that they have attached the accounts of certain persons who are obnoxious to the Government. I take it that that is the explanation of this Supplementary Estimate. The original amount obtained for the Estimate was £1,600. This Supplementary Estimate practically doubles it, and I think it needs a good deal of explanation. I am not at all surprised at the amount of the Estimate. Here we have the case of the Government objecting to the political
1926Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: If the suggestions of my hon. and gallant Friend as to the reason for this Supplementary Estimate are well founded, I trust we shall have a full explanation of the expenditure. I would like to make a few remarks on Item K: "Increase in temporary staff in excess of number provided for in original Estimate and cost for substitution of male for female staff." This is an allowance for temporary clerical assistance. I quite appreciate the force of the argument put forward by the right hon. Gentleman on a former occasion regarding the necessity of finding employment for ex-service men. But that would only apply to cases where the employment is of a permanent character. Apparently, in this case, the employment is temporary, and it appears to me to be a great waste of money to go to the trouble and expense of training men to take the place of these women for work of a purely temporary character. Where the employment is temporary it is not necessary surely to train men to take the place of women. I trust that the right hon. Gentleman will give us some idea of the nature of the work for which male staff is to be substituted for female, and will indicate for what time their services are likely to be required.Mr. MOSLEY
1928: I have received lately many letters from both male and female constituents of mine, who are very anxious on the subject of the policy with regard to male and female staffs, and I should like to ask the right hon. Gentleman what exactly is the policy of the Government with regard to the substitution of male for female labour. As an ex-service man, I have every sympathy with ex-service men, and with the natural desire of everyone to see that they are given every possible opportunity for employment. I am told, however, that in some cases efficient female clerks are being superseded by ex-service men who, before the War, were not employed on clerical duties, and who are now not nearly as efficient as the female staffs for which they are substituted. In many cases the ex-service man is one who comes with all the glamour attaching to the overseas service; but in other cases, I fear, the ex-service men appointed to Government Departments have been men who never went overseas at all. I feel certain that the bulk of the ex-service men in this
1928Captain Viscount CURZON
: This Vote includes two items—one an additional sum for travelling and incidental expenses, the other an increase in the salaries, wages and allowances of the Paymaster-General's office. With regard to travelling and incidental expenses (Item 13), there are three directions in which, daring the year, greater expenditure has arisen than was anticipated when the original Estimate was prepared. First of all, as has been mentioned, three members of our staff are working in Dublin. They are not employed in such exciting and dramatic work as was sketched by the hon. and gallant Member for Central Hull (Lieut.-Commander Kenworthy), but it was felt by the present Chief Secretary that the office in Dublin required some fresh blood in the way of highly trained civil servants, who had had more experience than some of those civil servants who had been working on the other side of the Channel. To strengthen his office, therefore, we lent from the Treasury three very competent civil servants. Apart from the strengthening of the office in Dublin, it is a great advantage, in the present circumstances in Ireland, that we should have our own representatives in the office there who can advise us in London with first-hand knowledge. We are now, more than we have in the past, inspecting staffs, and we find that by doing so we are often able, by advice and investigation, to improve the efficiency, and sometimes, indeed, to effect economies in administration.Mr. BALDWIN
: Is that in Ireland alone?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
1929: No, anywhere. Further, we have had to supply expert financial help on the Commissions that have met on the Continent, when
1929Mr. BALDWIN
: Are the expenses of going to Spa included in this Vote?Mr. RAWLINSON
1930: The expenses of the men whom we sent from the Treasury, but nothing else. With regard to Item K, which relates to the Paymaster-General's office, I was rather surprised myself, when I first examined the Estimate, to find that it had been necessary to increase the staff in that office. I ascertained the reason, however, and I think that the Committee, when they hear it, will understand as well as I did the necessity for the increase. It is not a large increase; it is 32. The hon. Member for Harrow (Mr. Mosley) asked if the work is likely to be of a temporary nature. I am afraid that a good deal of it will last for some time. The increase of work has been caused largely by the complexities of pension work. All the pension warrants come into that office for checking against the original lists, and that takes a great deal of time. In addition, the revision of the Income Tax has led to a great deal more checking in that office, because all payments made have to be examined in order to see that the tax allowed is what it should be. A great deal of that work must, I am afraid, continue for some time, although it may, of course, be possible, with further experience, to devise methods of reducing the staff presently; but in the current year this is the least number they have found competent to deal with the work. The increase of numbers has taken place almost entirely in the temporary staff. The permanent men remain as they were a year ago. There is one more permanent woman. There are seven fewer temporary women and 38 more temporary men. That makes a net increase on the year of 32. I owe an apology to my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Rawlinson). He is quite correct in what he pointed out. What I stated is also correct, that we find, owing to these causes, the expenses have been greater than we anticipated, but the amount that is down here is for Ireland, and I am very glad to be corrected in the statement I made about Spa. I was quite under the
1930Mr. BALDWIN
: I wish to ask a question on K. I understand the extra clerical assistance in connection with certain pension cases is the checking of the work of the Minister of Pensions, or is it the pensions of civil servants?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: The actual payment is made through the Paymaster-General's office, I understand, and when the pay warrants come in they have to be checked against the authority that he has from the issuing office to make the payments.Mr. BALDWIN
: There is another question in connection with the complexity of the Income Tax. Owing to the differences in the Income Tax forms and so on, it has been necessary to have a slightly larger staff.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: It is impossible to say exactly what the additional work will be.Mr. BALDWIN
: It is more complex, and therefore it has been necessary to bring in an extra staff. I think these are temporary tax clerks who have been appointed to do the work and they are a class in whom I am particularly interested. At present the tax clerks are in a state of great distress of mind.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: They are not tax clerks in any sense of the word. The hon. and gallant Gentleman will have an Opportunity of raising his point on the Inland Revenue Vote.Mr. BALDWIN
: In regard to Item B, as far as I understand the explanation we got of the doubling of the cost of the original Estimate was that we wanted new blood in the Treasury Department at Dublin. I do not really know what that means. Various other phrases were used, but no detailed answer was given as to the doubling of the cost. It is for the location of a section of the Treasury Staff and Investigation Staff at Dublin. I suppose that will be the result of the improved state of things generally in Ireland. I should like to have some real explanation, because the right hon. Gentleman contented himself with using phrases instead of giving a real explanation.Mr. LAWSON
: I should like it made perfectly clear that, as I understand from the right hon. Gentleman s later explanation, the £1,500 is confined to what took place in Ireland, and has nothing whatever to do with Spa, so that we may have it clear on the records.Mr. G. THORNE
: Then I do not think the right hon. Gentleman answered my hon. Friend behind me in regard to K. I understand the net increase at Spa is 32. My hon. Friend asked why, as it is a temporary staff, you could not be content with allowing it to be left to the women's staff instead of bringing in a much more expensive staff of males for a temporary purpose.Mr. THORNE
: My right hon. Friend did not answer a word of what I said. It may be better to raise it upon a subsequent Vote and if so I shall be delighted to do so, but I should like to get some indication of what the policy of the Government is in regard to the general question of the substitution of male for female labour.Viscount CURZON
: A question of policy of that kind cannot arise on this Vote. What is being done in regard to substitution is being done on the recommendations of a Committee which was set up with the knowledge of this House under the chairmanship of Lord Lytton. It is quite true that there are some difficulties in practice, and I suggest to him that an opportunity for raising the whole question, and asking what is being done with regard to that work of substitution, might very well be taken on the Consolidated Fund Bill.Mr. BALDWIN
1932: No doubt my right hon. Friend is right, and he cannot answer whether or not it is the policy of the Cabinet to substitute male for female labour, but it is in the power of the Committee to reject a Vote which substitutes male for female labour if they think that is a mistaken thing to do. In the last Vote there was a substitution of male for female labour. I did not say anything about it because I did not want to make too many points, but if on every Supplementary Vote we are going to substitute male for female labour, the question will arise whether or not we ought not to say, "It may or may not be right, but until we have had a declara-
1932Sir F. BANBURY
: The right hon. Baronet is not quite right. If he will read the note in small type, he will see that the total of the original Estimate for Treasury and Subordinate Departments was £313,000, so that the figure which he has read out is not quite so large an increase as he suggests.Mr. BALDWIN
: My right hon. Friend means that the increase is on an original Vote of £313,000, so that it is only an increase of 20 per cent, or 18 per cent. What I mean was that here we are asked for a Supplementary Estimate for £5,000, and hon. Members may think that they are sanctioning a Supplementary Vote to the Government for £5,000, but what they are really doing is granting a Supplementary Vote for £53,000.Sir F. BANBURY
1933: My right hon. Friend is wrong there. With regard to the war bonus, I have had the sum inserted here, because the war bonus has up to now been presented in one single Estimate. Next year the proper charge will appear under the heading of each Vote. This lasts only for this year. We are only
1933Mr. BALDWIN
: The Supplementary Estimate for war bonus will be taken later on, and we can have a discussion then?Sir F. BANBURY
: Yes, a full discussion.Mr. BALDWIN
: I understand that in future the Estimates will be prepared in a different way.Sir F. BANBURY
: The Estimates for next year are being prepared so that the war bonus will appear under respective heads. During the current year, in order to save presenting about 100 or 150 Supplementary Estimates, we had the whole bonus for all the Departments put into one Vote, except in a few cases where Departments were having Supplementary Estimates on other matters.Mr. BALDWIN
: I am much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman, and I will not say anything more now, except to congratulate him on his astuteness whereby he passes in one Vote 150 Votes, and saved perhaps 150 Divisions.Sir F. BANBURY
: We are entitled to a little more explanation as to the details of Item (B). The right hon. Gentleman said that that was caused by the fact that the Chief Secretary had asked for assistance from the Treasury. One can well understand that the Chief Secretary would require some additional assistance from the Treasury in these days, and no one would complain of the Treasury lending him that assistance; but that assistance means, apparently, the loan of three officials who are now in Dublin. So far as I can gather, that is only going to cost the Treasury, at the outside, three return fares from London to Dublin, and it does not go nearly far enough to account for the additional £1,500. The rest of the £1,500 is taken up by staff investigation. There is no suggestion that any of these officials are getting more in the way of salary. How is it that these investigations are going to cost so much money? What are they, and why do they cost money? It must be a big investigation to cost nearly £1,500.Major MACKENZIE WOOD
: By far the largest amount under this Sub-head (B) is for Civil servants belonging to the Treasury, who are in Dublin. Where I think my hon. Friend has been led into an error is that he does not realise that the phrase "Travelling and incidental expenses" covers more than the actual purchase of tickets. It includes subsistence allowances for the men who have to live in Dublin for the temporary period during which they may be employed, while at the same time their own homes and families are in England. The subsistence is a considerably larger item than the travelling allowance. It is impossible to say at any given time how much will be expended in travelling, because sometimes it is necessary for journeys to be made to London where there is an important matter for decision. The Treasury has always had one representative in Dublin watching the financial business of that country, and acting as our watchdog, and at a time like the present, when, owing to causes which we cannot discuss on this Vote, there is necessity for a good deal more expenditure in Ireland, it is of very great importance that we should have three of our trained men to watch this expenditure, and to exercise whatever control may be practicable. We believe that having them there will be productive of as much economy as we could possibly get in the circumstances.Mr. BALDWIN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman inform us what is the amount of the subsistence allowance. What is the word "allowance" intended to cover. I understand that it does not refer to war bonus?Mr. SPENCER
: It is the usual phrase. "allowance" means subsistence allowance, which is the money given to anyone who is travelling on business of this kind. The subsistence allowance paid in Dublin is 13s. 4d. a day for those residing outside Dublin Castle and 10s. 6d. a day for those who are lodged inside Dublin Castle.Mr. BALDWIN
1935: The right hon. Gentleman is rather confusing my mind. My hon. and Gallant Friend says that travelling and incidental expenses are the cost of travelling and hotels. Then he goes on to say that allowance also covers subsistence allowance. If so it is very unfortunate that one definite charge should be covered in two ways. It would
1935Mr. SPENCER
: I do not share the difficulty of the hon. Member who has just sat down. The word "allowance" comes under K, and travelling and incidental expenses come under B. What the Financial Secretary says is perfectly clear. Whether it is right or not is another matter. The Treasury thought it advisable to send three experts to Dublin to assist the gentleman who is always there and has done most excellent work on behalf of the Treasury. What is new to me is that that should not appear on the Irish Vote.Mr. RAWLIN
: This is the case of three officers who are loaned for this temporary work which does not clash with the work done by the official to whom my hon. and learned Friend refers.Mr. BALDWIN
1936: Still they went to assist the official who was there, and so it ought to appear on the Irish Vote. It has got to come on one Vote or the other, and it does not make much difference under which Vote it comes. As to the increase in K, we find that there are 32 extra officials in the Paymaster-General's office. Their salary does not seem exorbitant. I understand they have been there a considerable period, and so far they have not received more than £100 each, though that may grow in future. But I am dissatisfied with the lack of explanation as to why 32 new officials are needed there. One cannot help feeling that there ought to be a certain amount of supervision there to necessitate that. As an example, I may refer to the cheque sent out to each Member each quarter from the Postmaster-General which we get from the Fee Office here. That was sent to me in the ordinary way. My initials are J.F.P. There is no other person of my name in the House. The cheque was endorsed by me, and paid into the Central Bank in the ordinary way. It was returned from the Paymaster-General's Office on the ground that the signature of the Member did not appear on it. It was sent back by me, and passed through my bank and returned again. The Fee Office said they could not understand it. At last it turned out that in the list of Members sent by the Fee Office
1936Mr. RAWLINSON
1937: The Committee may desire a brief explanation of the reasons for this Supplementary Estimate. Hon. Members will notice that under the first heading "Oversea Settlement Scheme," the revised Estimate is £195,000 higher than the original Estimate of £500,000. That increase falls into two parts £150,000 increase is in respect of free passages to ex-service men. £45,000 is in respect of free passages to other than ex-service men. Any sort of Estimate approaching accuracy with regard to free passages for ex-service men was by the nature of the case impossible. The Government made an offer to such ex-service men who wished to go to different parts of the Empire and fulfilled certain conditions. The number of such men would depend on the other facilities offered by the Government of this country, and on the state of employment in this country. Apart from their wishes the possibility of their going oversea depended upon the conditions in the various Dominions, the extent to which the various Dominion Governments had cleared up the work of settling their own ex-service men and also upon the economic
1937The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for the COLONIES (Lieut. - Colonel Amery)
: In the Crown Colonies?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
19391938: In some cases in the Crown Colonies. Similar assistance had been given for the last two years or eighteen months out of money provided by the National Relief Fund. Therefore, all the machinery existed for sifting cases and seeing whether those who had a good opportunity awaiting them in Canada,
19391938Lieut.-Golonel AMERY
19411940: In introducing this Supplementary Estimate the right hon. Gentleman used the words, "this quarter of a million of money was very economically spent in seeking to
19411940Mr. T. THOMSON
19431942: I wish to protest at the earliest possible moment against the spirit, the tone and the whole out-look of the hon. Member who has just sat down. He seems to think that if British citizens leave this country for the great lands of Canada and Australia you are getting rid of them. We are doing no such thing, and the whole talk about shifting them off to the Colonies and of their making no bigger success out in the new lands of the Empire cornea from a narrow particularism, a narrow nationalism, a narrow counting of noses in this country which is the end of the British Empire. It is utterly hopeless. If there is one thing encouraging it is that our manhood and womanhood have still got some of that pioneer spirit about them, and are anxious and willing to go out to the wilds and the waste spaces of the earth and to spread our civilisation, and our ideas. If there is one Vote which the Committee ought unanimously to support, it is this particular Vote. I cannot speak too strongly on this point. Take the womanhood question. The hon. Member said we were getting rid of our womanhood. Take the position in Australia and Canada, and other parts of the British Empire. You have there an excess of males over females, while in this country you have between 1,000,000 and 2,000,000 more women than men. The women are wanted by our brothers and sisters overseas. All this idea that you have got to conserve the manhood resources of this island is a Prussian idea. It was the old German idea, the idea of State power in a narrow circumscribed area. In my view, it is utterly wrong. If they go to Canada, to Australia, or to any part of the Empire they remain British citizens, they are one with us, one in every way and in every manner.19431942Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: I am afraid that is not connected with this particular Vote.Lieut.-Colonel AMERY
: I am glad to hear it, but I hope that when these questions of overseas settlement are being dealt with, more care will be taken by the Colonial Office in cases where they are encouraging the settlement of Crown Colonies, to ensure that the same kind of care shall be taken as is taken by the Governments of the great self-governing Dominions.Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: I am not quite sure myself what is included in this Vote, and if the hon. and gallant Gentleman has any information to give the Committee I hope he will give it.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I meant to say that while passages were concerned with all parts of the Empire and not to the Dominions only, this Vote is not concerned with actual settlement schemes in East Africa.Lieut.-Colonel AMERY
: Can the hon. and gallant Gentleman tell me if there are any Crown Colony settlements concerned in this Vote other than East Africa, whether this advance of £55,000 under Item C (3)—a rather ominous conjunction of letter and figure—has any application to other than settlers in Dominions?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: My hon. Friend is not quite clear about the distinction between a settlement scheme, either in a Dominion or a Protectorate, which is one thing, and the grant of free passages to ex-service men. The grant to these men is to any part of the Empire, entirely irrespective of whether there is a settlement scheme or not. It is only a question of a free passage as a reward for War service to those who can show that they have got definite work to go to and are approved by the Government there. As regards C (3), it is special assistance arising out of the grave unemployment this winter, which is given to people who have something definite to go to, but who are just short of a little whether for their passage money, or for outfit, or for necessary money on landing. I do not think, except possibly in very isolated cases, that any of these would be going elsewhere than to the various Dominions, but there is no absolute rule on that.Lieut. - Co
: I was misled by the footnote, as usual. These footnotes excite the appetite without quite satisfying it. Here it refers to a scheme which has been approved by the Government. I was no doubt confusing that with the Overseas Settlement scheme, but this I gather is purely £55,000 for all sorts and conditions of men as a temporary advance to tide them over difficulties on land. I think, as a matter of fact, it would be of great interest and value to the Committee if we knew exactly what the regulations and conditions were under which these grants are made. Frequently hon. Members get letters from constituents asking them what assistance can be given in this direction, and I personally, although I take considerable interest in Dominion matters, have never seen a copy of the regulations and conditions under which participation in this grant of £55,000 can be obtained. I think it would be of great service to all hon. Members if my hon. and gallant Friend could issue the conditions and the limitations under which grants under this heading are made. I do not wish in any way to oppose this extremely useful and valuable Vote, because I am sure that money spent in this way will redound in the ever-widening and strengthening of British power, and influence, and good health, and development throughout the world.Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: I do not think my hon. Friend the Member for Middlesbrough (Mr. T. Thomson) deserved the severe castigation which was administered by my hon. Friend who has just sat down. I took my hon. Friend to mean that any efforts of this kind, admirable as they are, in my opinion, should not be used in any way to minimise our duties to those men who have served in the War at home. With regard to the general question, emigration from this country to our Dominions overseas and to our Crown Colonies has been one of the necessary factors of that common wealth of nations called the British Empire. That was checked during the War, and it is quite natural and, indeed, proper that the Colonial Office should at the very earliest moment set going again the machinery by which that beneficial and useful function of the British Empire should recommence to work as smoothly as possible. I should hope that there is no intention of His Majesty's Government, or of anybody who might be responsible in this country, to take any action which would make for other than the free choice of every man or woman to leave home for over the seas, but if they do what their forefathers have done with such great success in the past, and such advantage to the Empire generally and to themselves individually, and to the world—and, speaking as a Scotsman, I should be the last man in the world to depreciate the advantages to the Scotsman individually and the Empire generally of emigration from this country—Sir D. MACLEAN
: They have filled all the offices here.Sir F. BANBURY
19471946: At the same time, the point made by my hon. Friend is one which every Scotsman feels, namely, that the conditions under which Scotsmen and Scotswomen have been living in Scotland have forced them to leave when they would much rather have stopped at home. I am sure we all welcome, as I certainly do, the proposals of the Colonial Office in this direction, and certainly this is one of the few Votes I do not propose to divide against. But there is one point upon which I would like to say a word rather more particularly, and that is the Vote for the Oversea Settlement of British women. As my hon. and gallant Friend said in
19471946Sir D. MACLEAN
1948" Cœlum non animum mutant.": In spite of what my right hon. Friend opposite has said, I myself, like my hon. Friend the Member for Stafford (Mr. Ormsby-Gore), am sincerely glad that the spirit which animated the speech of the hon. Member for Middlesbrough (Mr. T. Thomson) is very sparsely represented in this House, and I hope in the country. I agree with my hon. Friend in thinking that those who leave the country, in the manner represented by this Vote, continue to be most useful citizens of the British Empire. I do not know that one need enlarge on that. It may be said of them, as the Roman poet said,
1948" Cœlum non animum mutant."Sir J. D. REES
19501949: The right hon. Gentleman informed the Committee that £150,000 in this Vote is to assist ex-service men and their dependants to settle overseas. What a sad reflection that is on our war time pronouncements to these men when they were asked to fight for their country. We are now taking steps to get them out of it with the utmost rapidity. I should like the right hon. Gentleman to give the House information under the following heads: How many ex-service men have gone overseas under this scheme? What have been their destinations? What occupations have they gone out to undertake? How many of these men have been sent out to take up positions in private undertakings, and have Government funds been used to provide for these private undertakings the labour which they would otherwise have had to secure for themselves? As to the Vote under C2, I am afraid if the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Ormsby-Gore) had not replied already to the hon. Member for Middlesbro' (Mr. T. Thomson) that I should have come under his strictures in the same way. I think it is a bad policy and a vicious principle for the Government to subsidise, a voluntary organisation for this purpose. When women emigrate, some agency should be ready to give them a measure of security in the country to which they go. But surely our Consular service might be of use in that direction. While the War may have created a disparity between the number of males and females in this country which may make it convenient for us to
19501949Mr. MYERS
: I shall have very great pleasure in supporting this Vote. Like the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Ormsby-Gore), I resent very strongly the remarks made by the hon. Member for Middlesbrough (Mr. T. Thomson), because I think that in providing free passages overseas for ex-service men the Government have done a good thing. I have had something to do with getting free passages for these ex-service men and I want to compliment my right hon. Friend's office on its work in getting these men away. The hon. Member for Middlesbrough said it would be better to spend money in keeping the men at home to do good work here. But I shall tell the hon. Member a story which I think goes to the root of the matter. Why is it that so many of our good men leave this country when they might do good work here? A few months ago I met a man who is going abroad. He had been a good workman and had saved money, and I asked, "Why do you go abroad?" He answered, "It is like this. I have done good work during the War and I have made some money, but I find that I cannot get on if I stop in this country with the opposition I get as a competent workman from the trade unions." Hon. Members on the opposite side know that very often trades unions try to keep a capable man back from doing his best.Mr. R. McLAREN
: We are not dealing with the responsibilities of trades unions on this Vote.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
1951: I was simply bringing out the reason why men go abroad who could do very well in this country. What I want to say is this, that I think it is a good thing for the country that men who have done their bit in the War and find they cannot get on very well should be encouraged to go abroad and
1951Mr. McLAREN
1952: First of all I would like to draw the attention of the House to a point which has been raised as regards the last Section of this Vote, namely, C.3. I think, and I am open to correction in this matter from the Colonial Under-Secretary, one of the main things which have been done under this Sub-section is that you have been faced in the West of England in Cornwall with a particularly bad cycle of unemployment, with a whole industry practically washed out, thanks to various causes, some of them on my right, and the Government has to my knowledge brought a very considerable help to enable these miners to go abroad and continue their work in other countries. I simply mention this fact because some criticism has been raised of the Ministry in this respect, and I would like to enable the hon. and gallant Gentleman on the Front Bench to show quite clearly that this money for men other than ex-service men has been really given to people who thoroughly deserve their help and who will undoubtedly bring very great credit, not only to the country from which they have come, but to the whole British Empire to which every one of us belongs. There has been a tendency amongst various hon. Members in this Debate to talk as if men leaving one part of the British Empire and going to another were lost to us as a nation and Empire. I personally think that in a time like to-day the more you can get the Government to proceed along lines such as are
1952Lieut-Commander WILLIAMS
1953: I should not have intervened in this Debate had it not been for the speech of the hon. Member for Spen Valley (Mr. Myers). I am one of those who think that the hon. Gentleman, speaking on special questions, contributes often very materially to these Debates, but I do not think he ought to take upon himself to speak for ex-service men. In the contribution that he made this evening I cannot help thinking he was rather mischievous. He has made the suggestion that the Government is not really doing a service to ex-service men in making this grant for colonisation purposes. During the War it often occurred to me that although the War had many terrible disadvantages it had one advantage, particularly to soldiers who served, that it did give some of us who had not previously the opportunity a chance of seeing that our future was not necessarily bounded by these little Islands; and I often felt that the Government would be neglecting an opportunity if it did not seize that experience and turn it to advantage. I think the speech of the hon. Gentleman was mischievous because he was inclined to suggest that the hon. Gentleman the Under-Secretary for the Colonies was trying to rid the Government of a burden. The hon. Member knows perfectly well he is doing nothing of the kind. There are no Members of this House, and very few in the country, who know the immensity of the possibili-
1953Captain LOSEBY
19551954: I am quite sure that anyone listening to this Debate, and comparing it with the sort of Debate we would have had in this House half a dozen years ago, will realise that a new spirit has come into British affairs in this regard. We should have had very different speeches and it is not too much to say, even after the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Spen Valley (Mr. Myers), that an entirely new spirit has come into these matters—the family spirit—and that there is a general feeling in this House, as the Prime Minister put it the other day, that when emigration takes place, and these men move to another part of the British Empire, they are not moving to a foreign land; they are moving to a land where British institutions prevail, and where they may enjoy the same measure of freedom as in this country if not a greater one. I would especially appeal to my hon. Friends on behalf of the ex-soldiers. I am not going into the question of trade unionism, but we all know that ex-soldiers are finding great difficulty in getting into certain Trade Unions, and I do ask hon. Members to do nothing to bar the way that may be opened for these men overseas. The other day I was in a Sussex village and in the church porch saw a Roll of Honour with 30 names upon it. Six of them were of soldiers who had gone from that village and settled in Canada, and they had fought in the War in Canadian battalions. I think that is a practical illustration of how this emigration does minister to the strength of the British
19551954Mr. HURD
: I listened with some surprise to the speech of the hon. Member for Spen Valley (Mr. Myers) when he was dealing with that portion of the Vote which provides for ex-service men to go abroad, and opposing it on the ground that those men when they fought in the War did not do so with the idea that they would have to go to some distant parts of the Empire. I would remind him that these men did not fight for England alone; they fought for the whole Empire. Where would the rest of the Empire have been if the men had not fought for it as a whole. Does the hon. Gentleman think it would have been advisable to surrender our Colonies in order to obtain terms of peace? I am sorry the hon. Gentleman took up that attitude. He raised another objection and in so doing I hope he expressed the opinions of hon. Members who sat around him. He objected to State subsidies to private concerns. There I agree with him. He objected to a State subsidy to a society sending people abroad because it was a private concern. I presume he also objects to subsidies to trade unions from the State. If so there again we are agreed, and if he can give me an undertaking that he and those with whom he always votes are against the granting of State subsidies to any private society of any kind, then I shall be happy to support him in the Division Lobby on this occasion.Sir F. BANBURY
1956: I beg to move that the Vote be reduced by £50,000.1956Mr. SWAN
: On a point of Order! I have been trying to follow the hon. Member, but I feel bound to ask whether his remarks are relevant?Mr. HOHLER
: The hon. Member is raising a good many controversial questions, but I was hoping that he was coming to the end of his speech.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I am suggesting the folly of encouraging our men to put thousands of miles between them and England, men whom we really need at home, and it would be better if the Government set themselves to work to carry out their reconstruction schemes so as to make this a land fit for heroes.Mr. SWAN
1958: I do not rise to support the Amendment, much as I am often associated with Members of the Labour party. I support the objects and purposes of this Vote, but I deprecate very strongly the reasons which are given for it, namely, that these grants have been made for the purpose of relieving unemployment. I think that is an unsound reason to give for encouraging our men to go overseas. After all, it is simply raking up the old Malthusian doctrine which I thought everyone now recognised to have been exploded as a fallacy, even though it has had a recent adherent in the celebrated H. G. Wells. When hon. Members advocate emigration, as the Prime Minister did, to relieve unemployment, which is tantamount to advocating this old exploded doctrine, can we be surprised that the working man in this country is tempted to restrict production for the same purpose of avoiding unemployment? I hope that point will not be emphasised by the Minister as it is stated in this Vote, and which is the main reason he gives for it for relieving unemployment, because in my opinion it is unsound and is the worst reason that can be given. At the same time I strongly deprecate the insinuation which has been made, I am afraid by some hon. Members around me, that it is banishing our men to send them to the Colonies or that it is anything in the nature of a disgrace or an imposition that our men should go to the Colonies. I never could understand the type of mind that thinks it is the finest thing in the world to live in this country and that to go to the Colonies is something in the nature of a mere avenue for one who has totally failed in this country. When one con-
1958Major ENTWISTLE
19641963"Australia is just glorious. There is only one fly in the ointment: They use the 'Hymnal Companion' in the churches instead of the 'Ancient and Modern.'""Heartfelt thanks for the help you gave me.""I have bettered myself in every way. I have saved more money in two months than I should have saved in six months at home.""I am enjoying my new home. It is a very nice land for men not afraid of work. For them Canada is an ideal place.""Here there is room for thousands who are not afraid of hard work.""I owe my present happy circumstances to the Committee, and I take this opportunity of thanking you once more for the kindly start you gave me. I shall always endeavour to prove a worthy citizen and a worthy ex-service man.""I am more than obliged for your personal interest, assistance and advice. As one who has had a large number of dealings on behalf of our members, I would like to congratulate you on the up-to-date and businesslike way in which your deal with the enormous number of cases coming daily before you. Nothing is left undone by you and your staff to be helpful. I am satisfied from my own observation and experience that you are working for the benefit of our members. … I think it right to give honour where honour is due."1962196119601959: I should like to clear up, if I can, a misapprehension which seems to be in the mind of the hon. Member for South-West Hull (Major Entwistle), which possibly may be caused by the form in which the footnote to the Estimate appears. Free passages for ex-service men have nothing whatever to do with unemployment. They are one of the rewards which this country has given to ex-service men. It has given them many other rewards. In the words of the right hon. Baronet the Member for the City of London, these men not only fought for these islands, but for the whole of our great Empire, for the whole of the great structure of civilisation and liberty which
19641963"Australia is just glorious. There is only one fly in the ointment: They use the 'Hymnal Companion' in the churches instead of the 'Ancient and Modern.'""Heartfelt thanks for the help you gave me.""I have bettered myself in every way. I have saved more money in two months than I should have saved in six months at home.""I am enjoying my new home. It is a very nice land for men not afraid of work. For them Canada is an ideal place.""Here there is room for thousands who are not afraid of hard work.""I owe my present happy circumstances to the Committee, and I take this opportunity of thanking you once more for the kindly start you gave me. I shall always endeavour to prove a worthy citizen and a worthy ex-service man.""I am more than obliged for your personal interest, assistance and advice. As one who has had a large number of dealings on behalf of our members, I would like to congratulate you on the up-to-date and businesslike way in which your deal with the enormous number of cases coming daily before you. Nothing is left undone by you and your staff to be helpful. I am satisfied from my own observation and experience that you are working for the benefit of our members. … I think it right to give honour where honour is due."1962196119601959Lieut.-Colonel AMERY
: I come from a part of the country on which this Vote has a very strong bearing, for there is no part of the country that has provided more men for the Colonies than the Highlands of Scotland, and if I thought there was anything in the nature of forced emigration under this scheme I would not touch it with a telegraph pole, but I look upon this scheme as a very beneficent scheme. I would force no man to go to the Colonies, but if an ex-service man thinks he can do better for himself by going to the Colonies than he can do at home, I think it is the duty of the Government to help him. It is in that spirit that if this goes to a Division I must support the Vote.Dr. MURRAY
: I ask leave to withdraw the Amendment.Mr. SWAN
: I am glad to see certain hon. Members calling on the ever growing anti-waste party for advice.Major LOWTHER
: We are very glad to give either advice or co-operation. The fact that we do not always make our voice heard in the House or in Committee shows that we have perhaps a high appreciation of the economy of words as well as of the economy of money. There are occasions when a vote in the Lobby is as useful as a speech on the Floor of the House. This particular Estimate does show a very large additional sum required of no less than £108,000. The right hon. Baronet suggests that the hon. Member for the Falls Division should at once move to reduce Vote A, so as to concentrate discussion on that particular Vote. With all respect, I think it much better to let the discussion roam at large for a bit.Major LOWTHER
: This Estimate is drawn up in such a way as to afford but little information to private Members. We have to rely on what we can elicit from the Government. Some of this additional expenditure may be essential. Some of it we think is not. But we want to find out what is in our view additional expenditure which should not be incurred. As the hon. Member for the Falls Division has not moved—Major LOWTHER
Purchase of Sites and Buildings: I beg to move that Sub-head A (Purchase of Sites and BuildingsMajor LOWTHER
1897: I was anxious to hear something of this matter because I know something of the city of Belfast.1897Colonel NEWMAN
: Then we have the complaint that this block of buildings in this growing town of Belfast which is bought by a speculator for £4,000 is in a few months sold to some Government buyer for £23,000. If the speculator had been able to do that I congratulate him, but it is a most amazing transaction, and if the facts be as stated I will vote with my hon. Friend below me against the Government.Colonel NEWMAN
: When can the right hon. Gentleman give us a definite reply?Sir C. YATE
1.  asked the Secretary of State for India what has been the result of his communication with the Government of India with regard to the cheapening of the cost of passages for Government officials to and from India?Colonel Sir C. YATE
2.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether, in view of the number of bogus candidates who have been put forward at the recent elections in India, he will now consult the Government of India as to the advisability of requiring a deposit for each candidate for election to the imperial and provincial legislative councils, to be returned if the candidate secures a prescribed number of votes, but otherwise to be forfeited, the same as in the United Kingdom, and also as provided for in the new Constitution for Malta?Sir C. YATE
9.  asked the Secretary of State for India what steps have been taken by the Government of India to secure the safety and interests of the officials and non-officials in India who either prepared the cases or gave evidence against men who were convicted of conspiring and abetting the waging of war against the King in the late rebellion in the Punjab or who have manifested their loyalty in other ways, and who now, as stated in the Press, are being insulted, defamed, and attacked simply because they have a record of loyal service during the War?Sir C. YATE
: Does not this increase account to a marked extent for the great rise in rates?Major NALL
: What are the trades to which it is proposed to extend the Act?Major NALL
: Is it not a fact that the Ministry has already given notice to 26 different trades that they are to be included? Is it a fact that 26 trades will not add to the clerical staff?Major NALL
39.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he is proceeding to set up 26 more Trade Boards for the wholesale and retail distributing trades; what will be the total additional expenditure for staffs in connection with these Boards; whether they are necessary owing to allegations of sweated conditions in these industries; and what are the 26 different trades for which these Trade Boards are required?Major NALL
: Is the House to understand that the Government is unable to say what is the use of a battleship?Major NALL
1804: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that there is no direct reference in this question to the premises at Hollin-
1804Major NALL
: Is it not a fact that in the Supplementary Estimate which, included the Hollinwood premises several other buildings were included, and is not this question relevant to those cases as well as the Hollinwood case?Major NALL
52.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware that the building of new Employment Exchanges was deferred in deference to Parliamentary opposition to the expenditure, and that since that date it has been the practice of other Departments to purchase premises before the money for the same has been voted; and whether the Government will stop this unconstitutional practice?Major NALL
: Will the right hon. Gentleman consider the possibility of issuing the really essential information contained in this "Gazette" through the ordinary press channels and so save what is a very expensive and unnecessary publication?Major NALL
: I am very much obliged. I had no intention of going outside the bargain, but I thought I should be in order, without raising any new points, to ask for an answer on the two particular matters to which I wish to refer. In view of what the right hon. Gentleman has said, I do not propose to press my point. In any ease I had no intention of raising new ground.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I do not want to enter into a discussion on the number of airmen voted under this Vote, especially in view of the absence of the Secretary of State for Air, but I wish to ask my right hon. Friend the Parliamentary Secretary whether he can reply to one or two points which I raised yesterday in our rather fore-shortened discussion. The discussion was cut short, as the House will remember, by a Motion for the Adjournment at 8.15, and I was purposely very brief in putting my points. The Secretary of State for Air no doubt had no wish to be discourteous in not replying to them, but as the Parliamentary Secretary was present and probably consulted on the situation with the Secretary of State for Air, I would like to know whether he will reply very briefly to the following points which are, I believe, of first-rate importance.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Then we are paying rates on Chesham Place.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: It would be interesting to know if the British taxpayers are paying rates on those premises. I shall certainly refuse to vote money for such a thing, and I hope that other hon. Members, whether super-economists or hyper-super-economists, or only people who have some regard for the decency of public expenditure, will support me.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
1874: I am much obliged to you, Sir, and I will not transgress your ruling. I was merely pointing out, it is quite wrong to pay rates for promises occupied by representatives of foreign Powers if they are to include two establishments, expensive
1874Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I think this Debate will have brought home to all hon. Members present, if it had not dawned on them before, that when Government offices come down with great Votes to this House, that is not the end of them, and that, just as if you throw a boulder into a pond, the ripples extend in ever-widening circles, so do Government waste and extravagance appear again and again in the same superfluous department in Supplementary Estimate after Supplementary Estimate. On Friday, the buildings; now the rates; to-morrow. I suppose, something else. I do not propose to make any detailed interpolation of my right hon. Friend, except on one particular point. I want to know whether these rates on houses occupied by representatives of foreign Powers include the premises in Chesham Place, formerly occupied by the Embassy of the Imperial Russian Government, and whether they include the rates paid on the former Consul-General's establishment in Bedford Square of that same Imperial Government. My hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Stafford of course treats this matter lightly. He thinks, what are a few thousand pounds hero and there. I am trying to save just two or three hundreds, and it can be done without harm to anyone. These premises have been the hotbed of intrigue and mischief making.Lieut-Commander KENWORTHY
: I have not put it yet. I gave notice.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I wish to call attention to the question of the examinations that have been forced on many of the temporary employés in Government offices, a matter affecting many hundreds. They are now unable to learn from the Civil Service Commissioners what their fate is to be, whether they have passed the examination or not. Many of these women have entered into this examination in good faith, and are unable to learn the result of the examination, and I think the Government have treated them extremely shabbily. I shall be glad if the right hon. Gentleman will have these women's anxiety removed.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
1972: There is one point which may lead to
1972Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that when the last two Navy Estimates were introduced the First Lord was unable to state what the policy was, and when is the Government going to reach a naval policy?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the French newspapers contain a good deal more news about Ireland, and truer news, than the English newspapers?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: May I ask whether, when it was seen there will be an extra sum in hand, something on account will not be paid to those entitled to it, in view of the fact that they are extremely short of money and many are out of employment?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
15.  asked the Secretary of State for India if he will take into consideration the hardship of many old well-tried Indian Civil servants who retired prior to 1913, and have not, therefore, benefited by the increased pension; and will he take steps to place these pensioners on an equal footing with their younger brethren, especially recognising the fact that their increasing years is a bar to other remunerative employment?Dr. McDONALD
: I would refer the hon. Member to the answers to the questions which I gave yesterday on the subject of the medical record cards to the hon. and gallant Member for the Isle of Wight. I cannot accept the view that the keeping of records must detract from the time available for giving adequate medical treatment. In the majority of insurance practices the practitioner is responsible for less than one-fourth of the number of insured patients for which, in the view of the doctors' own representatives, an ordinary practitioner can safely assume responsibility. I may say that the number of objections to the record cards from medical men and others concerned in working the system is insignificant. I may say that out of some 150. Panel Committees representing some 12,000 medical men on the panel, I have only received protests from nine, and those mostly on points of detail, although every effort has been made to stir up discontent in this matter by certain persons.Dr. ADDISON
: Perhaps the hon. and gallant Member will put down a question in a week's time?Dr. ADDISON
: I believe that the actual saving would be about £320,000.Dr. ADDISON
: We are considering the precise form of procedure that would be applicable, and I would ask my hon. Friend to put down another question, when I hope to be able to give a more specific reply.Dr. ADDISON
: The present annual cost of preparing the two half yearly registers in Great Britain is estimated at about £1,200,000. The question of having one register yearly instead of two is under consideration by the Government.Dr. ADDISON
: I may refer the hon. Members to the replies I gave last week to similar questions addressed to me by the hon. Members for Lincoln and the Isle of Ely, of which I am sending them copies.Dr. ADDISON
: I can assure the hon. Member that a local authority will not be prejudiced as regards financial assistance in respect of commitments entered into with the approval of the Ministry of Health which the local authorities, by reason of circumstances outside their control, are unable to carry out within the prescribed period.Dr. ADDISON
: The housing contracts at present being carried out by the building guilds have not advanced very far, and completed costs are not available. I am informed that the standard of work so far carried out is satisfactory.The MINISTER of HEALTH (Dr. Addison)
43.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he will take steps to save a large amount of expenditure by sending copies of the "Labour Gazette" out in thin wrappers instead of in the large stout envelopes, nearly two feet long and over a foot wide, at present being used?Mr. E. HARMSWORTH
42.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware that women in domestic service before the War are registering for out-of-work pay for their war-time occupations; and whether, in view of the great demand for domestic servants, he is taking any steps to make it compulsory for these people to state their pre-War occupations?Mr. E. HARMSWORTH
: My answer here does not apply to the labourers in question. The labourers employed there are paid not less than the district rate.Sir J. CRAIG
: I will consider what can be done in that matter.Sir J. CRAIG
: The amount of prize money authorised for payment to members of the naval forces to date is approximately £4,750,000. A sum of £7,500,000 has so far been received for the Naval Prize Fund, but it cannot be stated how much more than the original appropriation of £5,500,000 will be available for further distribution, until the various Prize Court accounts are cleared up, and the total amount of claims ranking against the Fund under the rulings of the Naval Prize Tribunal has been ascertained. Meanwhile all the balance in hand is kept invested for the benefit of the Fund. The Prize Fund accounts are laid before the House annually in accordance with the requirements of the Naval Prize Act. That for the current year ending on the 31st March, 1921, will be completed at the earliest date possible.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the ADMIRALTY (Colonel Sir James Craig)
: The boats in question have already been disposed of by sale and are no longer the property of the Admiralty.Sir J. CRAIG
11181
11181Japan.US.A.Great Britain.
Japan.US.A.Great Britain.1925.
1925.8181
8181Japan.U.S.A.Great Britain.
Japan.U.S.A.Great Britain.1924.
1924.
11181
11181Japan.US.A.Great Britain.
Japan.US.A.Great Britain.1925.
1925.8181
8181Japan.U.S.A.Great Britain.
Japan.U.S.A.Great Britain.1924.
1924.: The answer to the first part of the question is in the negative.11181
11181Japan.US.A.Great Britain.
Japan.US.A.Great Britain.1925.
1925.8181
8181Japan.U.S.A.Great Britain.
Japan.U.S.A.Great Britain.1924.
1924.
11181
11181Japan.US.A.Great Britain.
Japan.US.A.Great Britain.1925.
1925.8181
8181Japan.U.S.A.Great Britain.
Japan.U.S.A.Great Britain.1924.
1924.Sir J. CRAIG
: I have no information on that point.Sir J. CRAIG
: The agreement to which my hon. Friend refers is not applicable to the labourers in question. The labourers employed at Peterhead are paid not less than the district rate.Sir J. CRAIG
1971: All that I can say is that I gather that the hon. and gallant Gentleman is anxious to have some statement of the Estimates for the coming year. May I remind him and the House that probably on Wednesday week the Estimates will be introduced in the ordinary way. After the preliminary of moving Mr. Speaker out of the Chair, the customary statement will be made, and under these circumstances my hon. and gallant Friend will recognise that it would be premature, and also improper, to anticipate the statement to be then made by giving any information in advance. I gather that the hon. and gallant Member's object in raising this question was to throw out suggestions which might influence the decisions to which we shall have to come. The views of service Members are always most welcome to myself and the Admiralty generally. May I first point out that when it comes to asking me to make a preliminary statement to-night, in face of the statement by
1971The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the ADMIRALTY (Colonel Sir James Craig)
35. 1789 asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware of the strong feeling that exists among outworkers at their exclusion from the Unemployment Insurance Acts of 1920; and whether he will state why these workers are excluded, seeing that they are in certain industries a regular part of the machinery of production and that
1789Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
: In view of the great number of women who could be placed in domestic employment, what steps has the right hon. Gentleman taken to arrange for classes so that these women may be trained in domestic work?Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
48.  Risked the Prime Minister whether the Milner Report is to be discussed this Session; and, if so, whether he can give a date for the discussion?Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether consideration of the Palestine Mandate has also been postponed?Lord R. CECIL
1866: I should like to put this point to you, Sir. As I understand it, £77,000 is to pay the additional cost of some additional buildings occupied by the Government which were not foreseen in the original Estimates. That must be so, or else there will not be an increase apart from the rise in poundage. We are told that this is due to the continuation of war occupation, mainly concerning War Departments. But what decides the War Departments? We are given information that the Government evidently think it is important that we should know that the sum paid is caused by the War Departments, but they do not think it important that we should know what Departments are concerned in the increase, since the original Estimate was passed, that has caused this rise in the rates. I venture to submit respectfully to you, Sir, that if we are really to examine these Estimates carefully we must know what Departments have caused this increased expenditure, so that we may know
1866Lord R CECIL
36.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware of the discontent caused by obliging women employed in domestic service in houses connected with business establishments to come under the Unemployment Insurance Act of 1920; whether a maid so employed who changes into domestic service in a private house would lose all benefits from the insurance money that she had paid; and whether he could see his way to remedy that injustice by exempting them from the Act as coming under the heading of domestic service?Major MOLSON
37.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware that gamekeepers and the employers of gamekeepers are both strongly opposed to his decision of 23rd December, 1920, to the effect that gamekeepers must come under the Unemployment Insurance Act of 1920; did he receive a letter, dated 6th December, 1920, conveying a resolution from the Gamekeepers' Association embodying their objections; and can he now state why he found himself unable to give effect to their objections?Major MOLSON
: If it is not the wish of either the employers or the employed in a certain branch, are they still obliged to come in under the Act?Major MOLSON
: To whom do the funds from the gamekeepers go?Major MOLSON
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say who was responsible for this article?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
26.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware that under the Trade Boards Acts it is not practicable to secure a reduction in a minimum rate fixed under a period of approximately nine months, whether he is aware that unemployment is caused and is likely to be caused thereby; and what steps, if any, he proposes to take to remedy this defect?Major Sir KEITH FRASER
27.  asked the Minister of Labour whether, in view of the amount of unemployment which is being caused owing to the high cost of production, he will withhold his assent to any further increases in minimum rates which various Trade Boards continue to make?Sir K. FRASER
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that owing to the destruction of these creameries £500,000 worth of trade has been lost, with consequent unemployment?Mr. WATERSON
29.  asked the Minister of Labour, seeing that the Government are arranging for dilution in the building trade, if he is prepared to draft legislation to prevent unemployment in such industry; and, if not, what hopes has he that the men employed as dilutees will be able to secure a livelihood in the future?Mr. WATERSON
: Am I to understand that these men, who have been put into the industry and trained somewhat at the expense of the taxpayers, will probably, in the course of two years' time, find themselves on the streets without any employment at all?Mr. WATERSON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that some thousands of men have been trained at the Government expense in the boot and shoe industry, and, having been trained, are now on the streets; and is he expecting a similar result from placing these men in the building industry?Mr. WATERSON
: I should like to reply to the point raised by the Noble Lord (Earl Winterton)—The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY OF LABOUR (Sir Montague Barlow)
1894: The point raised by the hon. Member for the Falls Division does not really relate to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Labour. An appeal was made by the Noble Lord to the Ministry of Labour, and that is why I intervene. The two premises affected by this Vote are premises in Belfast and some premises in Tipperary which are on a different footing. The premises in Tipperary were originally started by a local committee, and the Government is now taking them over to develop them. The whole scheme is still somewhat in an undeveloped condition, but it is in connection with the taking over and development of hospitals that this Vote appears. The Franklin Building was taken over only in August of last year. In regard to both the schemes to which the Noble Lord referred, the difficulty which he anticipates has not yet arisen. As the Committee is aware, our training schemes occupy as a rule six, nine, or twelve months, and it is only when the trainees have been through the course that the difficulties such as the Noble Lord suggests might arise. We all know, un-
1894Sir M. BARLOW
: I think we are groping about in the dark room for a black cat which does not exist. It is not often that I raise my vokce to support the right hon. Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean), but I think we ought to ask the Government to withdraw this Vote. I do not want to vote against the Government, but I certainly shall not vote for them on this question. If in my own office an estimate in this form were put on my table, I would send it back to my clerks and tell them I would not look at it. It is plain that the right hon Gentleman who represents the Irish Office for the moment does not know anything of the facts of the case. I therefore emphasise the appeal for the withdrawal of the Vote. Let the Government give us the facts and we will support them if the case merits it. I have not the slightest doubt that what the hon. Member for Falls Division (Mr. Devlin) has said has been told to us in good faith, and I do not for a moment believe that there is not a good explanation of the difference between the £4,000 and £23,000, but I am not going to vote on an Estimate like this unless I know something about it.Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
20.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether certain officers of the Indian State railways when the War broke out were given 20 months' work at Army Headquarters, Q Branch, India, then detailed for active service with the Mesopotamia Expeditionary Force; in 1916 were placed on recruiting duty for Mesopotamia railways, and embarked for Basrah July, 1916, and served with the Mesopotamia Expeditionary Force till 14th July, 1920; whether during the whole period such officers wore military officers' uniforms with badges of rank and were subject to military law; why they were given only relative rank and no commission and were debarred from holding their Indian volunteer commission, which lapsed from date of embarkation, although other railway officers in France and East Africa and other departmental officers, such as posts and telegraphs, were in Mesopotamia granted commissions; whether these officers have constantly made representations as to the unfair way they have been treated; and why, if officers of the Postal Department in Mesopotamia were granted commissions at an advanced date, the same course cannot be taken with railway officers, especially those who held volunteer commissioned rank in India?Mr. RENDALL
: When is the right hon. Gentleman likely to get the information which will enable him to answer this question?Mr. RENDALL
: I understand so.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Yes.Mr. BONAR LAW
: It will be in two or three months, but I do not know the exact date.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I think that it is premature to answer this question until the Mandates have been dealt with by the League of Nations.Mr. BONAR LAW
£22.…United Kingdom
£22.…United KingdomLire.200…Italy
Lire.200…ItalyFrancs.390…France
Francs.390…FranceMarks.599…Germany
Marks.599…Germany
£22.…United Kingdom
£22.…United KingdomLire.200…Italy
Lire.200…ItalyFrancs.390…France
Francs.390…FranceMarks.599…Germany
Marks.599…Germany: With regard to the first part of the question, I would refer the hon. Member to a reply given by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to a question by the hon. Member for Stoke Newington on the 28th February. The total number of British troops in the Army of Occupation on the 1st February last was 12,909, all ranks, costing approximately £219,200 per month. The costs of the Armies of Occupation are the first charge on the amounts recovered from Germany, but are payable in addition to the sum payable by her for reparations. With regard to the last part of the question, the following estimate has been made of the total tax revenue per head in the countries named:
£22.…United Kingdom
£22.…United KingdomLire.200…Italy
Lire.200…ItalyFrancs.390…France
Francs.390…FranceMarks.599…Germany
Marks.599…Germany
£22.…United Kingdom
£22.…United KingdomLire.200…Italy
Lire.200…ItalyFrancs.390…France
Francs.390…FranceMarks.599…Germany
Marks.599…GermanyMr. BONAR LAW
: I would refer my Noble Friend to the reply which I gave yesterday to a question on this subject by the hon. Member for Mansfield.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The so-called international troops of the League of Nations are troops derived from a variety of nations.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I do not see how that could be done. What would happen would be this: Assuming that the Mandate is presented as a Treaty would be presented, if the House of Commons does not like it and says "we would prefer it in this form," the Government of the day would then re-present it in the form in which the House of Commons would like it.Mr. BONAR LAW
: This subject is at present under consideration by the Council of the League of Nations and I am not, therefore, in a position to reply to my hon. Friend's question.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The decision of the Council of the League to postpone the consideration of the Mandates, including that of Mesopotamia, till its next meeting was taken independently of any request from the American Government, and was concurred in by the British representative. The decision regarding the publication of correspondence between the American Government and the Council rests with the latter.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I do not think that I can say more than I have said in the answer to previous questions. It is obvious that the final control must rest with the House of Commons.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I am not yet in a position to make any statement on this subject.Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
: I think the hon. and gallant Gentleman is mistaken. My right hon. Friend stated what the policy of the Government then was, and I hope it will be possible to state it again this year.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Naturally this subject, as I stated in answer to a previous question, will be discussed on the Naval Estimates which will be introduced in the next few weeks.Mr. BONAR LAW
: If my hon. Friend will ask this question again on Monday I hope to be able to give full particulars.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I think so.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I think there is a chairman, and the general manager will be appointed immediately.Mr. BONAR LAW
: Yes, Sir. Sir Edgar Sanders has resigned his position with the Board in order to take up a business appointment, and the Board have conveyed to him their regret at the loss of his services and their appreciation of his work in Carlisle.Mr. BONAR LAW
: That is quite reasonable, and instructions to that effect have already been given, but to suspend it, as suggested by my hon. Friend, would have the effect for the time of Carlisle going dry.Mr. BONAR LAW
: This matter is now under consideration, and I hope that steps may be taken on the lines suggested in the question.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I answered that question and gave particulars in a written answer, I think, last week.Mr. BONAR LAW
: From what I have said it is obvious that this House would have precisely the same powers.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The answer to the first parts of the question is in the affirmative, except that the precise amount of expenditure required to carry out certain improvements at the Brewery, necessary for efficient and economical working, has not yet been determined; the answer to the third part is in the negative.Mr. BONAR LAW
: May I make an appeal to the hon. and gallant Member? I stated yesterday that as soon as possible after the return of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Churchill) I would arrange to give a day for the discussion of this Vote. I am sure it will be more useful to have a discussion later than to attempt it now.Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
c: I am sure the Committee will agree that the Financial Secretary to the Treasury exhibits every degree of zeal for economy, and he will agree, I think, that the Committee have only a desire to help him, to give him an extra push by means of which he can travel a little faster in that direction. I desire to ask him a few questions. I noticed that under Class 2 (cCommander BELLAIRS
: His Majesty's Government are not in possession of any official information of the kind referred to in the question.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
81.  asked the Minister of Health if he can state approximately the annual cost of preparing the registers under the Representation of the People Act, 1918; and whether it would effect a great economy and answer all reasonable purposes if the registers were published once annually?Mr. PERCY
1899: I do not cast the slightest imputation on the Labour party. We are dealing with another combination at present, but those are the facts. I am instructed that the Board of Works for twelve months tried to get accommodation in Belfast for the various Departments and were quite unable to do so. Ultimately they purchased these premises for £23,500 as was recommended to them
1899Mr. HENRY
: The Board of Works in Dublin have permanent officials, engineers and officials of that description, but they also know the local people whom they consult.Mr. HENRY
: I think that my hon. Friend will bear me out when I say that there is no city in the United Kingdom in which it is more difficult to obtain building accommodation for any purpose than in Belfast at present. I make that assertion without the slightest hesitation. My hon. Friend has not given us the source of this information as to this property which he says was acquired for £4,000, or as to the amount spent on repairs. But the Board of Works sent their official, a responsible valuer from Dublin, and he valued the premises. The right hon. Baronet drew a vivid picture of the officials going into these offices who would not be content with a mean street and would like their wives and neighbours' wives to see the magnificent premises in which they did their business. If the right hon. Baronet knew Waring Street as well as I do or the hon. Member for the Falls Division, he would not exactly compare it to Regent Street. It is an extremely narrow street.Mr. HENRY
: I knew that truth would at last permeate the soul of my hon. Friend, because he recognises that it is one of the most important streets in Belfast. Yet he is amazed that where 20 of the leading merchants of Belfast—Unionist merchants—have their offices, from which the Government had to evict them, £23,000 should be paid for the purchase of these premises.Mr. HENRY
: I am not in a position to give that information, because I go on the information given by the Department through their skilled valuers who dealt with the matter. The result is that in what my Friend recognises as one of the most important streets in the City of Belfast—it is extremely important, though very narrow. It is held by the Ulster Bank. It is the hub of Belfast, one of the greatest cities in the Universe—these buildings are occupied at present by the following Government offices: The Assistant Under-Secretary for Ireland, who is in Belfast, the Divisional Commissioners of the Royal Irish Constabulary, the Commandant and Paymaster of the City of Belfast, the Commandant of the County Antrim Forces, and the Commissioners of Inland Revenue for Income Tax Collection, and it is ultimately hoped that it will be entirely available for all the branches of the Inland Revenue in Belfast.Mr. HENRY
: When that comes the price of buildings will go further up in Belfast.Mr. HENRY
: It is a source of surprise to me to hear one who is so well known, and so well thought of in Belfast as the hon. Member (Mr. Devlin), depreciate the value of property in that city.The ATTORNEY-GENERAL for IRELAND (Mr. Denis Henry)
: My right hon. Friend the Prime Minister has asked me to answer this question. My right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary has already called the attention of the House to the article referred to, and he made a subsequent statement to the House which will be within the recollection of hon. Members.The ATTORNEY-GENERAL for IRELAND (Mr. Denis Henry)
1796: Certainly, an apology. I do not want to minimise the apology he made. During the years 1919 and 1920 236 soldiers and police were murdered in Ireland. During the same period one man who was caught red-handed in a murderous attack on troops drawing bread from a bakery during which three soldiers were murdered was tried and executed.1796Mr. HENRY
: We will do all in our power to diffuse truth, not only in this country, but in foreign countries.Mr. HENRY
: In the right hon. Gentleman's statement to-day he referred to a statement made by the Chief Secretary in which he expressed to Mr. Masterman on the 23rd of last month his profound regret for having made the statement referred to.Sir D. MACLEAN
1900: I think that the explanation of the right hon. and learned Gentleman is wholly unsatisfactory. The question is—were these premises bought about fifteen months ago for about £4,000? All he tells us is that these premises are in an important part of Belfast and are suitably occupied by Government Departments. That is not what the Committee want to know. They want to know if there is any basis at all in what my hon. Friend says. Suppose that he is £4,000 or £5,000 out and they were bought for £8,000 or £9,000, why do the Government pay £23,500 for them? He cannot answer that question. He has not got the information. But the Committee is entitled to have the information. It is a new Committee of the House of Commons that is dealing with the matter, and the Government had better recognise it. It is a Committee which, when it asks a reasonable question, is going to have an answer. If this goes to a Division we know what will happen. The majority of Members now present will admit that the position put by those who have spoken before me, representing all parties, is perfectly reasonable. But the decision is settled by men who have not heard a word of the Debate.1900Sir D. MACLEAN
: I am sorry that I do not agree with my right hon. Friend. There will be no loss of time by withdrawal of the Vote. I quite agree that if we were nearing the end of the financial year my right hon. Friend might press his view upon the Committee with considerable force. But withdrawal of the Vote will not involve any loss of time. We can go on to other Supplementary Estimates. If the Committee Stage of this Vote is taken now, Members of the Committee will lose control of it. On the Report Stage there is an entirely different and more narrow procedure. At the moment we are seized with the position, and the Committee is entitled to have the Vote back in the position in which it is now when the explanation of it is given. There is no intention to obstruct. If we wanted to obstruct we could not do so.Sir D. MACLEAN
1857: I beg to move that the Vote be reduced by £28,000.1857Sir D. MACLEAN
: Yes.Sir D. MACLEAN
: Command Paper 1155.Sir D. MACLEAN
: Is it not in order to discuss the question, since a large part of this increase is for the continuance of war occupations, without going into details? As long as we keep on to general grounds, I understand you will allow the discussion to proceed?Sir D. MACLEAN
: On a point of Order. With every possible respect to my right hon. Friend—and he knows that I do not take any points which personally affect him—I really should like to ask him why this Supplementary Estimate is being presented by him instead of by the Irish Office?Sir D. MACLEAN
1881: We have had a very interesting and, I think, important discussion, notwithstanding the rulings which the Chair has felt bound to give on this Supplementary Estimate. It has become quite clear, as the discussion proceeded, that the main idea in the minds of hon. Members criticising the Estimate was that it was their only chance of expressing to the Government their dissatisfaction with the slow rate at which Government buildings have been evacuated and the consequent increase which has had to be asked for for rates and other payments. We all gladly admit that my right hon. Friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury, in a difficult situation, has done his best to satisfy the Committee, but it is perfectly clear, as far as he was concerned, that he has no control whatever over these matters, and if the efforts of the Committee had persisted in pursuing this matter to its logical conclusion we should have had the Government Bench peopled with Ministers and various Under-Secretaries to give explanations why these war occupations had been continued. I feel bound to press my proposal for a reduction to a Division. The amount I suggest to be knocked off is £28,000, and that was not merely a shot in the air. It was a rather carefully calculated amount, and I am pretty sure it very nearly covers the increase of rates on the great majority of the premises which might have been evacuated if the Government policy had been directed to that end. In the second place, I am going to press the Motion to a Division in order to help my right hon. Friend. I am sure he will understand this is not a personal matter. We know he is doing his best with the various Departments. He is one of the watchdogs at the Treasury to see that all unnecessary expense is cut down, and if a sufficient number of Members go into the Lobby and express their views on this matter, my right hon. Friend and the
1881Sir D. MACLEAN
: It is very difficult to get the information. I will see if I can obtain it by telegraph.Mr. MONTAGU
: I have no information on the subject, but will inquire of the Government of India.Mr. MONTAGU
: The form of contract has been altered since Dr. Denning signed with a view to obviating some of the difficulties. I would point out that the Council of India, in regard to Dr. Denning, have acted within the law in recognition of the difficulties of his position.Mr. MONTAGU
: I am not familiar with private employment. Of course, analogies are always very dangerous things, and I should have to consider the exact application of the analogy which the hon. Member desires to make.Mr. MONTAGU
: The hon. Member has correctly quoted parts of certain passages in the instructions issued over the Royal Sign Manual to the governors of "Governors' provinces." The answer to the last part of this question is in the affirmative.Mr. MONTAGU
1776: I would refer the hon. Member to the provisions in Section 84A of the amended Government of India Act for the appointment of the first Statutory Commission for the very purpose which he has in view. Parliament is, of course,
1776Mr. MONTAGU
: I always desire to place at the disposal of the House any information of this kind.Mr. MONTAGU
1777: The facts referred to in the first two parts of the question are generally as stated except that the medical grounds on which Dr. Denning's contract was terminated were not found to be erroneous. As regards the third part of the question, Dr. Denning subsequently brought an action for breach of contract or, in the alternative, for wrongful dismissal; the Secretary of State for
1777Mr. MONTAGU
: I am very anxious that in any fiscal arrangement devised for the Empire, India will take her place as a free partner in the British Empire following the general Imperial practiceMr. MONTAGU
: I will send my hon. Friend a copy of the new form of contract and the old one, and then the hon. Member can see for himself. I think the new form makes the position quite clear.Mr. MONTAGU
: Increased duties were imposed as from yesterday. Simultaneously an announcement has with my approval been made in India that a Commission will be appointed to examine, with reference to all the interests concerned, into the future fiscal policy of the Government of India, including the desirability of adopting the principle of Imperial Preference. The House will realise that no decision regarding Imperial Preference can be taken until the Commission reports.Mr. MONTAGU
: I would refer the hon. Member to the answer given by my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Education on my behalf to a question by the hon. and gallant Member for Melton on the 28th October last. I will send the hon. Member a copy.Mr. MONTAGU
: I hope it will be introduced in another place this week.Mr. MONTAGU
: The despatch to which my hon. Friend refers does not in any way override the recommendation of the Joint Select Committee, which can be adopted without devising a scale of pension. I can assure the House that any case of the kind which comes before the Secretary of State in Council will be dealt with in strict accord with the recommendation of the Joint Select Committee and the pledges that I have given to the House.Mr. MONTAGU
: I think so.Mr. MONTAGU
: Sample motor vehicles are being prepared by British manufacturers for trial in India. Provided that these samples prove to be satisfactory after trial, the High Commissioner will give the British manufacturers full opportunities of tendering for any supplies that may be required, and will give every attention to such tenders.Mr. MONTAGU
: I am not sure to which resolution my hon. Friend refers.Mr. MONTAGU
: I am not yet in a position to announce any conclusions on the recommendations of the Esher Committee, except on certain proposals in Part V., regarding which I hope to make an announcement shortly, as I stated in reply to my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Melton on the 23rd February.Mr. MONTAGU
: My hon. Friend will have seen that the Government of India have found themselves under the necessity of raising additional revenue amounting to 19 crores in the coming financial year. In the curcumstances it is not surprising that they have not seen their way to proposing any remissions of taxation.Mr. MONTAGU
: I have seen the letter to which the hon. and gallant Baronet refers. I am addressing inquiries to the Government of India on the subject; meanwhile I am placing in the Library a list of those in the Punjab and Delhi whom the Government has rewarded or thanked for good services during the disturbances. The list, it will be seen, contains over 1,400 names.Mr. MONTAGU
: I understand that they were surplus stock belonging to the Italian Government, as far as the majority of the cars are concerned. I am not sure whether they were new or had been used during the War, but if my Noble Friend will put another question I will ascertain.Mr. MONTAGU
: Orders for 144 motor vehicles of various kinds have been placed in Italy on behalf of the Government of India at a total cost of approximately £70,000.Mr. MONTAGU
: The Government of India have to have regard to the interests of the Indian taxpayers. They would naturally prefer to buy here rather than abroad. The circumstances connected with this particular purchase, which I understand were ambulance cars, were that there was ready a surplus stock belonging to the Italian Government, and they were required to meet an urgent demand. British firms are going to tender for the remainder of the supply.Mr. MONTAGU
: I will communicate my hon. and gallant Friend's question to the Government of India, who will no doubt review their original decision in the light of the experience since gained.Mr. MONTAGU
: I understand that most of the important Indian piece goods associations have passed resolutions against the payment of drafts under a two-shilling rate of exchange. The Government of India have informed me that they do not consider that they can usefully intervene in the matter. At a meeting of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of India and Ceylon held last January the finance member of the Government of India strongly criticised the policy of refusal to meet contractual obligations, and I need hardly say that I entirely share his view of the position.Mr. MONTAGU
1770: The question is still under consideration in India. A
1770The SECRETARY of STATE for INDIA (Mr. Montagu)
: We are astonished at the small increase in these rates, because, with the exception of places where the Labour party are in control, the rates have not anything like trebled and the most they have done is doubled. I agree that the right hon. Gentleman is always extremely fair to the Committee and most anxious to give full information.Sir F. BANBURY
: I appear to have stated a fact which is a little unpleasant, and I did not intend to do that. I was merely acquainting the House with a very simple fact which I have been able to ascertain. In the City of London the rates have gone up from 6s. 6d. to 10s. 1d., while in Bethnal Green they have gone up from 8s. to 19s. 11d.Sir F. BANBURY
1878: I should like to say that I agree with the statement as to the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman has prepared this Estimate. I think he was right in founding his Estimate on the rates for the present year. You could not tell whether offices would be dispensed with, and you could not tell whether the rates would or would not rise. I am very much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for his information with regard to the Appropriation-in-Aid for the Ordnance factories. My right hon. Friend said that he was exercising pressure upon the various Departments to reduce the number of houses which they occupy, and I am very glad he is doing that. I hope he will continue to do it, and I trust the pressure will be of a severe kind. I know there are various degrees of pressure; and I hope the pressure of my right hon. Friend will be of an extremely hard character. My right hon. Friend said that previous to the War the amount paid in rates was £800,000. I cannot find that
1878Sir F. BANBURY
: Who got the £23,000?Sir F. BANBURY
: The hon. Gentleman has given us a very satisfactory explanation. He says that what my Noble Friend fears has not arisen and that it will not arise until these men have been trained. He says it does not arise until the scheme has been in operation for 6, 9 or 12 months. It is absurd to go into a scheme and to spend money for 6, 9 or 12 months when you do not know what is going to happen at the end of the time. That was the hon. Gentleman's explanation. He says, we do not think that these fears will materialise, but we cannot say whether they will materialise, because the scheme has not been in operation long enough. Before putting the scheme into operation, they ought to know whether or not the result will be satisfactory. That is what I complain about in all these Government schemes. They are all so very anxious to come forward as the Salvationists of the country. They have grand schemes which are going to do all sorts of things, but in nine cases out of ten what they do is to spend money, and nothing happens, except that the unfortunate Financial Secretary to the Treasury has to come down and sooth the House into passing the Vote. The hon. Member for the Falls Division should move a reduction.Sir F. BANBURY
: May I put this point of Order? We are asked to vote £348,000, and an Amendment has been moved to reduce that to £320,000. Is it not a good argument to say that if these huts in St. James' Park on which rates are not payable had been used, it would not have been necessary to come for this supplementary sum, and that therefore it is owing to the negligence of the Government in not taking advantage of these huts being free from rates that that part of this sum is required? I think an argument like that would be in order.Sir F. BANBURY
: I am quite certain I cannot.Sir F. BANBURY
"Appropriations-in-Aid.—Additional repayment by War Office in respect of increased contributions for ordnance factory is £20,000."1859: The right hon. Gentleman has quite correctly pointed out the serious result of the very great increase in rates during the last few years. I take this opportunity to remind Members of the Committee that there is down for this evening a Bill to increase coroners' salaries by 50 per cent. Now that I have warned hon. Members, I hope that those who agree with me that we do not want to increase the rates will take the opportunity of seeing that that Hill does not go any further. It will not if I can help it. The right hon. Gentleman has alluded to the fact that £77,000 of this Supplementary Vote has been caused by the continuance of war occupation. I want very seriously to ask my right hon. Friend (Mr. Baldwin) how the Treasury can have allowed this occupation to go on. Am I not right in saying that our Army grows smaller and smaller every year? If the private soldier is reduced every year, what on earth do we want all these extra buildings for? When the Army was large it was probably necessary that we should have all these extra buildings, but now the Army has been reduced, I think wrongly. It is the only thing in regard to which members, of the Labour party sometimes jibe at me for being a little extravagant. I am extravagant with regard to the private soldier, but I am not extravagant with regard to the permanent officials who live in permanent buildings, and who, if war came about, would be of no use whatever. I see a prominent soldier (General Sir C. Townshend) sitting opposite, and he perhaps will support me when I say that it is no use having these permanent build-
"Appropriations-in-Aid.—Additional repayment by War Office in respect of increased contributions for ordnance factory is £20,000."1859Sir F. BANBURY
: Did the right hon. Gentleman allude to it ironically as being the only valuable document that has emanated from that Ministry during the last two years, or does he really think that it is an essential document? If he does think so, would he give me the reference?Sir F. BANBURY
: The right hon. Gentleman opposite, in moving the reduction of the Vote, alluded to a certain valuable document. Am I right in thinking that this valuable document emanated from the Ministry of Health?Sir F. BANBURY
: We can do that afterwards.Sir F. BANBURY
1896: It is so serious that I am endeavouring to support the hon. Gentleman in arriving at the real facts of the case, and if it is true that the Government have given £23,000 for a building which was bought 18 months ago for £4,000, everybody in this Committee ought to go in the lobby against the Government. That is the sort of thing we want to stop. That is the sort of reckless expenditure which arises when a Government official goes down the street and sees a building in a prominent position, which is convenient to his residence, or which he thinks will give him a certain air of importance when he enters it, so that everbody may know that he is a Government official of a very important Government Department. You cannot put a Government office in a back street, that would never do. It must be in the light of day and in the most expensive and most prominent position that can be found. That is bad enough, but if in addition to that the Government are so foolish as to give £23,000 for what was bought 18 months ago for £4,000, we have an instance of great waste, of which this House ought to show its disapproval by voting against the Government. I have great regard for the Ulster party and for the city of Belfast, but I thought they were going to have their own Parliament, and were going to deal with their own affairs. Why should I put my hand into my nearly depleted pocket in order to provide premises for my hon. Friends in Ulster. Now when strongly against my own convictions, Ulster is going to set up a Government it ought to be able to provide for it. The question raised here is
1896Sir F. BANBURY
: May I suggest to the hon. Member that it may be better if he moved his reduction now on the first item, so that we can confine our discussion to Item (A).Sir F. BANBURY
: I am glad to hear that, and I hope that the hon. Gentleman will continue in that mood, and will do what I ask him in other matters. The hon. Gentleman has made a very serious statement. It is about as serious a statement as any hon. Member could make in this House. He says that the Government have paid £22,500 for premises which 18 months ago were bought for £4,000 by the person from whom the Government purchased them. If that is true—I do not cast any doubt upon the accuracy of the hon. Member's statement, but he may have been misinformed, or there may be other circumstances which have not been brought to his knowledge—Sir F. BANBURY
1903: If my right hon. Friend withdraws the Motion without any stipulation he is not in any way injuring himself. The course of business for the rest of the week, as far as I know, is this: To-morrow we are to take the Consolidated Fund Bill, Second Heading, and again on Friday. If this Vote is withdrawn, what will happen? There is a very large number of Votes in these Supplementary Estimates which must be discussed. All that will happen will be that this particular Vote will be transferred from one position in the Supplementary Estimates to another. We cannot possibly get the whole of the Supplementary Estimates through to-night. We are not
1903Sir F. BANBURY
47.  asked the Prime Minister whether the Reparation Commission or any other body have stopped the migration of securities from Germany?Mr. WISE
1860: I rise to support what has been said by the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down and by my right hon. Friend the Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean). Apparently, as my right hon. Friend has pointed out, the majority of this £77,000 is War Office expenditure upon rates. That being so, it is rather a pity that we have not a representative of the War Office present to answer these various points. My right hon. Friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury is one of the hardest working men in the House, and probably one of the most economical, and I am quite sure that it would not be fair to keep on asking him questions about the War Office. It is not acting quite respectfully to the House when we have a Vote in relation to which it says specifically that the major portion is the War Department that we should not have a repre-
1860Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: Then I am rather surprised that these War Office rates have gone up to such an extent, and if it is the case that rates are not payable on these huts, surely if we have got to have these officials, it is a pity to pull down any huts. Why pull down the huts on the Horse Guards Parade?Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: Then I am afraid I shall not be able to go on.Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: I will not pursue that. I take it that rates are not payable on the huts in St. James Park. Would they be payable on the hutments on the Horse Guards Parade? I do not quite understand why the War Office should be specially guilty in this respect if it is not the case that these rates are paid, because the other day, in answer to a question, the First Commissioner of Works told us that 30,000 feet of hutments had been evacuated in St. James Park, and when he was asked whether the huts were going to be pulled down, he replied, "No; the whole of the vacated huts will be used by War Office officials." I should like to know definitely whether rates are payable on these St. James Park huts.Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: I will keep within your ruling. As the War Department are the chief offenders in this respect, I brought the matter forward. I daresay hon. Members are aware that since the War there are over 7,000 more War Office officials than there were before the War. Just before the War began there were 1,600.Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: I do not intend to go on with the remarks I was making, but may I ask your ruling on this point? Is the only thing we can discuss as to whether the actual rates on these buildings were proper rates to pay? Are we not allowed to discuss the administration of the Government in remaining in these buildings instead of going elsewhere?Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: Is it in order to discuss the methods by which this sum appears on the Estimates?Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: I have been asked to answer this question. I am informed that the Admiralty-Marshal, who is under the direction of the Prize Court, has the custody of the coffee referred to. The 47 tons are the remaining balance of coffee cargoes condemned as Prize and are of a quality suitable only for export, for which there has recently been no market. The answer to the third part of the question is £316 0s. 5d.The ATTORNEY-GENERAL (Sir G. Hewart)
: I fear I am not able to take any steps, but I am sure all possible steps have been taken and will be taken.Sir G. HEWART
: I should like to ask the Financial Secretary to give me one piece of information. It seems to me that the Food Controller must have given up a great many buildings during the year, and that various other Departments have diminished and given up a great many premises, and it would be of great assistance to us to understand, when decontrol is taking place and when the Government are attempting to be economical, what has been the total saving in rates in the Budget estimate, and what it has been in previous years, so that we can form some idea of how many buildings are being given up.Mr. CAUTLEY
65.  asked how many officials are employed in the Department of the Director of Building Materials and Supplies, and what is the monthly cost; and whether, with a view to accelerating the housing schemes, steps will be taken to abolish it without delay?Mr. HUGH MORRISON
1880: I want to ask the Secretary to the Treasury whether the Government are now prepared to withdraw the veto which they exercise in the levying of rates on the buildings which they occupy. In my own constituency where formerly the Government had only one or two buildings the question was not of much importance, but they have increased the number of those buildings. When the rates were low it was not a matter of great importance, but with the rates as they are now, and the number of buildings which the Government Departments are retaining, it means that the local authorities are not able to assess those buildings at their full value. The effect is that in my own constituency we are not receiving a much larger amount, and if we were receiving the proper proportion our rates would be much smaller. This is quite the reverse of the procedure under which the Government are giving increased grants to local authorities because, in the case of my constituency, the local authority is really,
1880Mr. KILEY
: Would it not be better to consult those industries first?Mr. KILEY
16.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he is now able to state on what date he expects to introduce the Burma Reforms Bill.Mr. MILLS
53.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in the interests of economy, he will consider the desirability of unifying the administration of juvenile employment schemes under either the Ministry of Labour or the Board of Education?Mr. MILLS
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeSir J. RANDLES
: Is it a fact that many of these domestics are required to be reengaged in service at pre-War rates and can we get an assurance that they will not be requested to work more than 24 hours a day?Mr. SWAN
32. 1795 asked the Minister of Labour if he can state the number of
1795Mr. SWAN
30.  asked the Minister of Labour the number of persons employed in the co-operative movement in Great Britain at the Armistice, and the number employed now?Mr. SWAN
31. asked the Minister of Labour the number of persons employed by municipal authorities at the Armistice, and the number at present?Mr. SWAN
: Nothing of the kind.Mr. SWAN
: Does he blame the Labour party for that?Mr. SWAN
: And the Ulster Parliament.Mr. DEVLIN
: What was the rent which these people were paying?Mr. DEVLIN
: It is one of the most important streets in the city. It is the Bond Street of Belfast.Mr. DEVLIN
: That was my information.Mr. DEVLIN
: In a case like that, I will do anything that the right hon. Gentleman asks me.Mr. DEVLIN
1889: I propose on another Vote to make a very considerable draft on the patience of the House, but just at this moment I will deal with the first item, namely, A, Purchase of Sites and Buildings, purchase, of premises for public Departments, Belfast, £23,500. As this is an absolutely non-political and non-partisan question, I trust I shall get the attention especially of the anti-waste party because I consider the transaction the payment for which this House is now asked to sanction is a very disgraceful one for two reasons. In the first place 18 months ago the building for which the Government paid £23,500 was bought by a Belfast speculator for £4,000. I hear constantly in this House and out of it the ever-insistent demand of English Members for the evacuation by the Government of premises in this country which are occupied for Government purposes. Here is a case where the Government are not really evacuating but taking and holding premises, paying £23,000 for them when they were sold for £4,000 only 18 months ago. That in my opinion is a Vote which will have to be justified in a much more effective way than it has been justified by the right hon. Gentleman. What happens in this case? I am not a member of the Anti-Waste League. I do not care how much British money you throw away in Ireland. It is
1889Mr. DEVLIN
: Not advice, co-operation.Mr. DEVLIN
: I did not move, because I understood that if I did so we should not be allowed to discuss the other items. If permitted to do so, I am quite prepared to do it now. I rose a moment ago to move a reduction, but did not catch the eye of the Deputy-Chairman.Mr. DEVLIN
: I have stated distinctly that I was glad they got the money out of the British taxpayer.Mr. DEVLIN
: I said a number of women.Mr. DEVLIN
: I propose to do that later.Mr. DEVLIN
: Does not my point come first?Mr. DEVLIN
: They would not go out on any vote. If we cannot do it with a long pull and a strong pull and a pull altogether, let us gently push them and if it be a small majority to-day, as it was only 10 on Friday, we may be able to bring them to a sense of reality in regard to these questions. Divorce yourselves from your prejudices and come to business. This in my judgment is a transaction which should not be sanctioned by the House of Commons. There is a dual wrong perpetrated. There is the wrong of giving £23,000 for property sold for £4,000 only 18 months ago and there is the wrong done in putting these business men out of their premises and compelling them, not only to look for premises elsewhere which they cannot find, but to suspend their business. You had the spectacle of one of these Belfast merchants and manufacturers breaking the law for he actually refused to be evicted from the premises until the soldiers came and put his furniture on the street. I think you will realise the significance of this transaction and the importance of it being raised here.Mr. DEVLIN
: I think the Noble Lord would not like to be too sweeping in his declarations. I have known hundreds of ex-service men obtain positions.Mr. DEVLIN
: The speculator I expect. At all events he will get it when the right hon. Baronet and the Anti-Waste League go into the Government Lobby and support them. I do not know whether or not the money is paid yet. Perhaps we shall have a Government crisis. Perhaps you will take your courage in both hands and come along and vote with me against this transaction, and if you do we may defeat the Government and the Ulster Parliament may never come into operation.Mr. DEVLIN
: No, they may never come in. You mean the Ulster Government?Mr. DEVLIN
: Does that apply to houses for which the local authority has made a contract, which houses have not yet been commenced by the date when the subsidy will expire?Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
68 & 69 asked the Minister of Health (1) whether houses commenced by local authorities under approved schemes before the 31st July, 1922, but not completed by that date will nevertheless qualify for the Government subsidy;Mr. NEVILLE CHAMBERLAIN
inter alia,: I have been asked to reply to this question. It is not considered that any useful purpose would be served by an inquiry of the kind suggested in my hon. Friend's question. I would remind him that two inquiries into agricultural matters have been held quite recently, namely, by Lord Selborne's Reconstruction Committee and by the Royal Commission on Agriculture in 1919, and that as a result of their recommendations the Agriculture Act was passed last Session with the object, inter alia,Colonel Sir R. SANDERS (Lord of the Treasury)
: Is it correct that the Oldham Chamber of Commerce, or an official connected with it, had these premises at Hollinwood offered to them for £40,000 while the Government has bought them for £180,000?Mr. WADDINGTON
: I have no knowledge of the point just raised by the hon. Member. With regard to the question of my hon. Friend (Major Nail) I must apologise to him because I have not answered the question as he expected. If he will be good enough to put it down again I will try to do so; but as this case was the only one within my knowledge that had recently been before the House, I thought he referred to that and I felt that it was only courteous to him to give full details.Mr. BALDWIN
: I presume the hon. and gallant Member has in mind the acquisition of the premises at Hollinwood for the Stationery Office? The premises were erected as an aircraft factory by the American Government in 1917, it is understood, at a cost of £477,000. As they were eminently suitable for meeting urgent requirements of the Stationery Office in the Manchester district, a lease of them was taken in April, 1920, for a period of eighteen months at a rent of £12,000 per annum, His Majesty's Government having an option to purchase within that period at £185,000. In connection with a general settlement of outstanding claims between His Majesty's Government and the United States Government in November last, under which a net cash payment of nearly £3,000,000 was made to this country, the Disposals Board agreed to take over this property from the United States of America with the intention of selling it to the Stationery Office. Parliamentary authority for the purchase by the Stationery Office has been sought at the earliest practicable opportunity in the Supply Estimate recently passed in Committee of Supply. It is not the case, therefore, that the Office of Works purchased in advance of Parliamentary authority.Mr. BALDWIN
: No, they are not.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Baldwin)
dc1888: I am rather surprised that my hon. Friend did not know that the Treasury is responsible for the Board of Public Works in Ireland. In introducing this Estimate, my right hon. Friend beside me (Mr. Henry) would have carried much heavier guns than I can. It will be noticed that by far the greater amount in this Vote is directly concerned with the work of the Irish Constabulary. Under Item A, there is a sum of £23,500 for securing buildings in Belfast, which, although ultimately they will be required for increased postal accommodation, and for bringing together all the work of the Tax Commission, are required immediately for bringing together the Divisional Commissioner of the Royal Irish Constabulary in that district, the Commandant and Paymaster of the Force in the City of Belfast, and the Headquarter Staff of the County of Antrim Police, it being considered desirable to bring together these scattered units into one building, for purposes both of security and of efficiency. Similarly, in item B, for New Works, by far the greater amount goes to the keeping up of a depôt at Gormanstown for the Royal Irish Constabulary. Item C is one with which we are only too familiar in this country. It represents the increase in the cost of maintaining and supplying public buildings—the increase which has arisen during the last year— and it must be remembered that the Board of Public Works in Ireland has under its control practically the whole of the Government buildings for every purpose throughout that country. When you look at the figure in the original Estimate under that head, the increase is no more than that which has occurred from time to time, and corresponds approximately to similar increases with which we are familiar in this country. Under Subhead D, the money there is divided between work for the Ministry of Pensions in the equipment of hospitals under their authority and work for the Ministry
dc1888Mr. BALDWIN
: I do not think I need repeat what I have said in regard to that. The position with respect to valuation is that the valuation for the assessment of Government properties is made by the Government. It is a very old-standing method of assessment, arrived at many years ago, and it has a good deal of history behind it. The valuation is revised quinquennially. When that valuation is made, the actual amounts paid will, of course, depend on the rates prevailing in the district. It is impossible for me, by a stroke of the pen, to make such alterations as the hon. Member for White-chapel (Mr. Kiley) desires. Any changes of that kind must necessarily be made by the Government, after consideration of the whole question. With regard to the point which was put by the hon. Member for Ince (Mr. Walsh), I am sure he must realise that I could not give detailed figures in a Debate of this kind. I have done my best to answer the points that have been put to me, and I hope that the Committee will now be prepared to come to a decision.Mr. BALDWIN
: I propose to say only a very few words in introducing this Estimate—Mr. BALDWIN
: I do not think the Heavens will fall if I cease to be a Minister, and certainly I shall get a holiday. There are one or two points I desire to answer, and then I hope the Committee will be ready to go to a Division after a very useful and interesting discussion. With regard to the old Russion Embassy in Chesham Place, the position is that the rates have been paid for the first six months of last year. There are some negotiations going on now, but in no case will any payment be made on that building after the close of the current financial year. With regard to consulates, no payment is made under any circumstances. They are responsible for their own rates. With respect to the premises in Bond Street, whatever is done with them is subject to the terms of the tenancy by the people who took them. Nothing is paid by the Government there. With regard to diplomatic premises generally, I may say, in reply to the hon. and gallant Member for Enfield, that any new cases which come forward have to be examined and sanctioned by the Treasury. The rule hitherto has been that an ascertainable portion of the rates is paid by this country on the Embassies of foreign countries on reciprocal terms that they in their country pay similarMr. BALDWIN
: My right hon. Friend wants to know, as this money is credited here, where the debit occurs. The debit occurs in the Ordnance Factory Vote, where it is taken in as part of the cost of production. If it were not treated in that way it would appear on both sides of the bill, and swell the gross Estimates of the year. Those rates have always been treated in that way, but when we come to a time when we may have Estimates which can be more easily comprehended, it is possible that some easier way may be found of explaining this rather singular Appropriation-in-Aid. My hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Hull—Mr. BALDWIN
: I am quite prepared to answer my Noble Friend's question, but that is a point, I am afraid, which we could hardly discuss. There are two or three specific questions asked. I should like to repeat once more to my right hon. Friend the Member for Peebles that no one feels more keenly than I the delay in getting rid of premises. It has always been a subject on which I have felt grave anxiety, and it is a subject where, as far as I am able, I exercise whatever pressure I can. My right hon. Friend the Member for the City of London called attention to the method of accounting and the Appropriations-in-Aid. If I may say so, I feel the greater sympathy with him, because, having had a commercial training, as he has, I found great difficulty when I first came to these Estimates in understanding what was comprised in Appropriations-in-Aid.Mr. BALDWIN
186918681867: Perhaps I might usefully intervene at this stage and make
186918681867Mr. BALDWIN
1870: Of course any suggestion that is put forward in Committee will be carefully considered, but I would remind hon. Members that the form in which the Estimate appears is the same in which the Estimate has always appeared hitherto. Whether it be a good thing or whether it be not a good thing to change the form of the Estimates, that could not be done in the case of an isolated Estimate nor until a decision had been come to as on the form of all the Estimates. That, I think, is another question, and one which has been and is being considered But on this occasion, with regard to this Vote, we are merely following precedent, and I am most anxious to give all the help I can to the Committee in coming to a decision on this matter. My right hon. Friend the Member for Hitchin (Lord E. Cecil), I rather gather from the point of Order he raised, was under the impression that a portion of the £77,000 was for some new obligation. Of course, that is not the case. It is a case of retention. There is no case of new obligation of which I am aware.1870Mr. BALDWIN
: I rather gather from the interruption that there may be some further points to be raised, but I was very anxious to speak when I did, so that I might give such help as I could to the Committee on this particular Estimate. I realise as much as any Member the very natural and proper desire to give a thorough and proper examination to all these Estimates. It is very difficult on this particular Vote to give the examination hon. Members wish, but I can assure them—and I am sure they will believe me when I say so—that, as far as I can, and within the limits of this Estimate, I will do everything I can to make the whole matter perfectly clear.Mr. BALDWIN
: I am looking into that question.Mr. BALDWIN
: I am anxious only to save the time of the Committee. I think this matter has been very fully debated, and on the assurance of my right hon. Friend that he does not mean obstruction, I am willing to withdraw the Estimate.Mr. BALDWIN
: The point raised is a perfectly legitimate point, and requires an answer, but I would remind the Committee that the learned Attorney-General has no knowledge of the transactions to which reference is made, nor have I, and it will be necessary to communicate with Ireland to find out what are the exact facts of the case. That, my right hon. Friend will do. As the right hon. Member for Peebles said, I am responsible for this part of the business of the Session, and I know the difficulty there sometimes is if a Debate on the Committee Stage be adjourned. I suggest that the Committee Stage be taken, and on the Report Stage I undertake that the facts, which by then will have been ascertained, shall be given to the House.Mr. BALDWIN
: I quite agree, I am willing to withdraw the Vote.Mr. BALDWIN
: The export of capital from Germany is prohibited by various laws of the German Government, the chief of which is the Law of 26th June, 1918. I understand that the object of these laws is to prevent the evasion of taxes.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Baldwin)
1883éclat: In the overwhelming desire that the expenditure of the nation shall be reduced, especially upon useless matters, we have a right to sec that these Supplementary Estimates are thoroughly examined. An hon. Member reminded us just now that, after all, we have to pay. Of course, we have to. As a matter of fact, these are not Estimates; they are bills to be collected. Ordinary municipalities recognise the force of events, and gauge in some fashion what is likely to occur in the ensuing year. But Government Departments seem to have no provision at all. They appear to think it is their duty to tickle the ears of the taxpayers by making the Estimates as low as possible. They think they gain great 1883éclatMr. WALSH
1882: We are all glad to see that the Vote asked for to-day is solely on account of the continuance of war occupations. I would like to ask whether any payments in respect of new occupations by Departments beyond their existing premises are included in the figures asked for. Let me give a case in point. The finest offices in the Empire are those known as the Home Office. Ever since the Coal Mines Regulation Act has been in force, the housing of that great Department has been in the Home Office, but since about July last, under the Mining Industry Act, the whole of the Coal Mines staff, some of the most responsible men in the country, have been taken over to the Hotel Windsor. I can imagine no change so miserable as that. It is like stepping out of what really is to all intents and purposes a palace into something very little better than a hovel. Those of us who know the Hotel Windsor know it is necessary to have artificial light all day in practically every room in the building. I would like to know whether there is any charge for rating in respect of the Hotel Windsor, and, if so, what is the proportionate lessening of the rate on the Home Office. This is no doubt a very difficult question for the right hon. Gentleman to answer, and no one can complain if, at the moment, he is unable to do so. Still, we have a right to say that these utterly useless and worse than useless changes ought not to take place if the consequence is a substantial increase in the expenditure of the country, because there must be a decrease in the physical efficiency of what is after all a wonderfully fine staff. We all thought during the last two years that there would be a substantial reduction in the amount
1882Mr. STEPHEN WALSH
: Surely we have a right, when arguing in favour of a reduction, to give illustrations! We know that within the last two or three years large establishments like the Hotel Victoria, the Grand Hotel, and the Hotel Cecil have been vacated, and we have been entitled to hope that there would be a reduction in the heavy charge for rates paid by the Government on property which they have occupied but ceased to occupy a considerable time ago. While the War was on everything had to give way to it, and there was no one in this House who did not recognise the immense force of circumstances. But to-day all the social amenities of this part of London have disappeared. St. James Park—Mr. S. WALSH
: Although this is a very important item in this particular Vote it is not the only item, and my right hon. Friend, I am sure, would not enter into any understanding unless with the assent of all parties in the House. I certainly intended to raise quite a different point on another item. I would concur in any agreement if it meant that our subsequent discussion was not to be confined to this particular point, but I could not enter into any undertaking to confine my observations to this particular item alone.Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
19701969196819671966: Referring to the question I asked the Prime Minister at Question Time to-day as to the Naval policy in the coming year, I desire to draw the attention of the House to this most important matter, and my objects are twofold—first, to endeavour to persuade the Government to announce a decision which may save the country millions in ensuing years; and, secondly, if I may be permitted to do so, to create a greater
19701969196819671966Rear-Admiral ADAIR
: In view of the position which this question occupies internationally and financially, I beg leave to give notice that I will raise it on the Adjournment to-night.Rear-Admiral ADAIR
: Are the Cabinet alive to the grave international importance of this question and its grave effect on the finances of the ensuing year, and can they not give us an assurance that before any Naval Vole comes on we shall know something of what their policy is going to be?Rear-Admiral ADAIR
46.  asked the Prime Minister whether a decision has been come to as to the building of capital ships for the Navy in the next financial year; and, if so, will he say what that decision is?Rear-Admiral ADAIR
19.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he is aware that Dr. A. D. Denning, of Stafford, entered into a contract with the Indian Government for five years' service in India; that at the end of three years the contract was terminated on medical grounds which were afterwards found to be erroneous; that subsequently it was claimed and upheld that, despite any contract, the services of a servant could be terminated at the will and pleasure of the Crown; that the India Office has since granted Dr. Denning £500, which is not sufficient to cover his costs in the legal action; and that consequently Dr. Denning is without compensation for the loss of his appointment; whether this case will have further consideration; and whether, in order that men of ability may be encouraged to enter into these contracts, he will consider the advisability of abandoning the claim that service can be terminated at the will and pleasure of the Crown?Mr. THOMAS GRIFFITHS
: If the contract has been altered, has it been to the advantage of the civil servants?Mr. GRIFFITHS
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that under our commercial institutions and industrial arrangements employers and workmen get equality so far as notice is concerned, and why are these civil servants to be treated in a different way from the industrial workers and employers in this country?Mr. GRIFFITHS
: Cannot we have an answer to the question as to what is the Ministry of Labour's policy in distinguishing between, resident and non-resident applicants?Mr. INSKIP
: You added "and willing."Mr. INSKIP
: It is important that the Committee should know the facts, and as to whether this building was sold eighteen months before for £4,000; but it does not follow, if it was sold for £4,000, that it was not worth £23,000 when the Government bought it. What is also important is the statement of the learned Attorney-General that officials were sent down from Dublin to value properties in Belfast. He called those officials skilled advisers. If they went down from Dublin to value buildings in Belfast it is exactly what I would have expected. They would not know that the property had been sold for £4,000 eighteen months before. What is wrong is, that permanent officials or Dublin officials should go to Belfast to value property in Belfast. Valuation is not worth the paper it is written on unless the valuer knows about transactions in a particular property. In transactions of this sort in Ireland or in England, we should not have Government officials going down to value, merely putting on paper an opinion which is probably worth nothing. People on the spot should be employed. They would know all the facts as to dealings in the property in the previous few years. Then we should not have such a state of things as that to which attention has been drawn this afternoon. Perhaps the learned Attorney-General will say whether valuers in Belfast were employed?Mr. INSKIP
: Yes, and willing to take suitable employment. It is the duty of the local Exchange to question the right to benefit. It would then be referred to the Insurance Officer, and the aggrieved person has open to her the Court of Referees and the Umpire to determine whether or not the benefit should be awarded or forfeited.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The rules are precisely the same. We have to carry out the law, and I trust that the officials do so with proper care and attention. The law says that candidates must be capable of, available for, and unable to obtain suitable employment.Dr. MACNAMARA
: In determining whether or not the applicant is entitled to benefit?Dr. MACNAMARA
1788b: Under Part II (1788bDr. MACNAMARA
: I cannot compel an answer to any question. No doubt, if a question of that kind were put, and a candidate was disinclined to answer it, that would unquestionably raise the presumption that it was a case in which the right to benefit should be further examined.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The nature of the employment followed by outworkers is such that it would in general be impracticable to check in any satisfactory manner the fact that outworkers are unemployed and unable to obtain work. It is for this reason that outworkers have been excluded from the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, as they were similarly excluded from the Unemployment Insurance Acts of 1911 and 1916.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Women previously engaged in domestic service who paid Unemployment Insurance contributions during the War are entitled to claim unemployment benefit in respect of these contributions, provided that they satisfy the statutory conditions, one of which is that they must be available for work but unable to obtain suitable employment. Applicants for benefit are asked to furnish all necessary information for determining the occupation for which they are best suited. I have no power to compel applicants to answer questions, but any refusal to answer relevant inquiries would obviously lead to the suspension of the claim and its reference to a Court of Referees.Dr. MACNAMARA
1790: I have the grounds of exemption urged in the letter now before me. They are (1) the permanence of the employment; and (2) the fact that on change of employment they do not use the employment exchange. Those are
1790Dr. MACNAMARA
: A letter dated 6th December, 1920, was received from the Gamekeepers' Association. It did not, however, contain any grounds on which it was possible to except gamekeepers from the provisions of the Act. Under Section 10 (1) (i) of the Act, it is open for any person aggrieved by a decision of the Minister to appeal from that decision to the High Court.Dr. MACNAMARA
: They go to the Insurance Fund, so that if any gamekeeper is hereafter out of employment he may get the benefit.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Certainly; insurance is insurance. We cannot allow anyone at their will to be relieved of the opportunities of contributing to insurance. If they are not established, and under no circumstances liable to be unemployed, then, if they are in an insured trade, we ask them to be insured.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The number of agricultural workers on the registers of Employment Exchanges on the 7th January, 1921, was 6,162, of whom 4,603 were farm labourers and 204 were women—a rate of unemployment of less than 1 per cent. The figures apply to the whole of the United Kingdom, and the number out of work in any district is not considerable. The number of applications from employers for workpeople at the same date was 285.Dr. MACNAMARA
1792: There is nothing in the United States, France, or Belgium comparable to the system of compulsory
1792Dr. MACNAMARA
1791: As my Noble and gallant Friend is no doubt aware, women are entitled to unemployment benefit subject to the same conditions as those applicable to men. The institution of relief works providing employment suitable for women is beset with difficulties, and has not hitherto been found practicable. The conditions governing public grants in aid for works of public utility do not enable such grants to be made in aid of training classes. As regards the last part of the question, vacancies which cannot be filled locally are circulated to all Employment Ex-
1791Dr. MACNAMARA
: I am afraid I do not quite follow what my hon. Friend desires. Does he mean a classification of the applicants?Dr. MACNAMARA
1786: The Act makes full provision for that. Applicants for benefit must be capable of, available for, and willing to undertake suitable work. That is the law. If is for the Exchange to refuse or suspend benefit, and then the
1786Dr. MACNAMARA
: I do not think that arises here.Dr. MACNAMARA
: There were 13,261 women in receipt of unemployment benefit on 11th February who were registered fur domestic service, including service in hotels, boarding houses, etc. Corresponding figures for each county are not available. The Exchanges make every effort to fill domestic service vacancies. One of the great difficulties is, however, that the chief shortage is of resident servants, while the supply of suitable applicants mainly consists of non-resident servants. For instance, on 7th January there were on the average six resident vacancies for every suitable woman on the register, and on the other hand six women on the register for every non-resident vacancy.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The closest and most careful consultation is made. I do not think my hon. and gallant Friend is right in saying it has been finally decided to establish trade boards in 26 cases. They are before me. I am giving all the consideration I can to them. I will raise the matter and let him know.Dr. MACNAMARA
1785: I should be glad if my hon. and gallant Friend would be good enough to supply me with specific cases of the kind described in his ques-
1785Dr. MACNAMARA
: No.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I said "as circumstances permit." I have their case before me. I will give the hon. and gallant Gentleman early notice.Dr. MACNAMARA
: In the consideration of the question of confirming rates of wages which may be submitted to me by Trade Boards, I shall, of course, have full regard to the circumstances to which my hon. and gallant Friend refers. I may add that inquiry shows that the amount of unemployment in trades covered by Trade Boards is not appreciably greater than that in other trades.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Having regard to the conditions existing in the distributive trades, I propose to apply the Acts to the distributive trades as circumstances permit. It is impossible to state the number of Trade Boards which it will be necessary to establish, but the addition to expenditure will be comparatively small.Dr. MACNAMARA
: My hon. and gallant Friend is under a misapprehension as to the length of time required by a Trade Board to effect a variation in minimum rates of wages. When the Amending Bill of 1918 was before the House, representations were made that too rapid fluctuations of wages were prejudicial to industry. For this reason it was decided that minimum rates of wages should not normally be varied by a Trade Board until they had been in operation for six months. Power was, however, reserved to the Minister in special circumstances to allow a Trade Board to propose a variation of rates at any time.The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
: That belongs to the local authority. I put it to those who help me this morning whether we could not ask for that.Mr. MACNAMARA
: Of that part of the distribution of the "Labour Gazette" with which the Ministry of Labour is concerned, amounting to some 10,000 copies monthly, about 9,900 copies are issued in thin wrappers and less than 100 in envelopes. The size of the envelopes generally used in these cases is much below that suggested by my hon. Friend. If, however, he will supply me with particulars of a recent case in which an envelope of that size has been used, I will have further inquiries made.Dr. MACNAMARA
: According to the returns to the Ministry of Labour, the total number of persons employed in municipal gas, water, electricity, trams, and general services was 575,000 at November, 1920, as compared with 407,000 at November, 1918.Dr. MACNAMARA
: According to the returns of the Co-operative Union, the number of persons employed in the co-operative movement at the end of 1918 was 164,383. The corresponding figures for the end of 1919, the latest date for which figures are available, was 187,535. It is known, however, that the number has considerably increased since the end of 1919.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I am unable to state the number of persons thrown out of work by the destruction of co-operative creameries and dairies.Dr. MACNAMARA
1794: I believe that the men whom the boot and shoe industry has very generously allowed us to train are suffering from the heavy weather which industry is at the present time experiencing, though not more than other classes—indeed, less, if anything, I should think, from the figures. What
1794Dr. MACNAMARA
: My hon. Friend is not to understand that at all, and he will understand this rather remarkable fact that, of all the crafts I know of, there are only two, even in the present grave state of industrial depression, where the number of vacancies offered is smaller than the number of men offered. Those two are the bricklayers and the plasterers.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Unemployment in the building industry at the present moment is of very small proportions, apart from those occupations which are either particularly liable to seasonal fluctuations in demand or have been specially affected by the shortage of craftsmen in the key trades of the industry. There appears to be no need for special legislation to be adopted for the building industry.Dr. MACNAMARA
: That is a matter of the conditions under which Lord St. David's Committee make the grant. I will go into it, but the Noble Lord must not take it that I can give any assurance.Dr. MACNAMARA
Proportion of Benefit to Wages.Weekly benefit.Wages3. Above 48 lire—22.50 lire.2. Above 24, but not exceeding 48 lire— 15.00 lire.1. Not exceeding 24 lire—7.50 lire.
3. Above 48 lire—22.50 lire.2. Above 24, but not exceeding 48 lire— 15.00 lire.1. Not exceeding 24 lire—7.50 lire.Earnings and Unemployment Benefit.Following is the information promised:: I have said that there is nothing comparable in the case of the States named in the question. My hon. Friend will draw his own conclusion.Proportion of Benefit to Wages.Weekly benefit.Wages3. Above 48 lire—22.50 lire.2. Above 24, but not exceeding 48 lire— 15.00 lire.1. Not exceeding 24 lire—7.50 lire.
3. Above 48 lire—22.50 lire.2. Above 24, but not exceeding 48 lire— 15.00 lire.1. Not exceeding 24 lire—7.50 lire.Earnings and Unemployment Benefit.Following is the information promised:Dr. MACNAMARA
1797: Barking residents have two Exchanges available for them, namely, those at East Ham and Ilford.1797Dr. MACNAMARA
: East Ham Exchange is 1½ miles. That is a hardship, but I have great difficulty in getting other premises. We are doing all we can to pay these men as expeditiously and as smoothly as possible and with as little delay and inconvenience as possible.Dr. MACNAMARA
: For having used his name.Mr. MOLES
1879: At this time last year, when the various local authorities had their administration under consideration, nothing was so certain in the minds of people acquainted with the needs of local authorities as that a very heavy rise in local rates would take place. Having regard to the mass of Government property which exists all over the country and the rise that has taken place in local rates, we should have expected to have found the amount much larger than it is. I join with the hon. Member for Middlesbrough in suggesting that the Government might well have anticipated this rise in local rates which has taken place. Obviously, the Government Department has to choose between two things, that is either budget well in advance, anticipating probable rises, or budget on the rates which prevail at a given period and then come for a Supplementary Estimate. Those with experience of municipal administration know that it is best to budget well ahead rather than come for a supplementary demand later on.1879Mr. MYERS
67.  asked the Minister of Health whether he is still receiving any protests from panel doctors as to the work entailed by filling up the new forms of cards; and, seeing that the time so employed diminishes the amount of attention which can be given to individual patients, will he inquire into the whole matter to see how the system is working?Mr. FORREST
61. 1807 asked the Lord Privy Seal whether the Committee is to be appointed to investigate the charges made in connection with working papers
1807Mr. FORREST
56.  asked the Prime Minister whether he will institute an inquiry, Departmental or otherwise, into the effect on farming generally produced by the operation, on the one hand, of the National Wages Board and, on the other, by the falling prices, with the object, in particular, of averting the threatened agricultural depression and ensuring smoother working relations between those connected with the land?Mr. FORREST
28.  asked the Minister of Labour whether the records of women Mr. FORREST
: I want the right hon. Gentleman to go a bit further, and say that it is not a mere question of putting the Mandate before us as a whole and accepting it or rejecting it. We may want the Mandate with amendments.Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
1800: Will the right hon. Gentleman make it quite clear that as the Mandate will not come to this House until after it has been accepted
1800Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
59. 1799 asked the Lord Privy Seal whether consideration of the Mesopotamian Mandate has
1799Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
60.  asked the Lord Privy Seal whether the Mandates after agreement between the Government and the League of Nations will be submitted to this House in the form of Bills, or in what manner provision will be made to enable the House to amend them in regard to financial or other details?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say, approximately, when the next meeting will be held?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: And the East African Mandate?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
14. 1774 asked the Secretary of State for India whether
1774Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
1865: I have listened to my hon. and gallant Friend's gallant efforts to got some discussion on this difficult question, and I want to ask whether it would not be in order to move to report Progress until such time as the Government could give us information to enable us to have a proper discussion on this Vote. I should not think of contesting your ruling, but the Estimates as drawn make it impossible to have a
1865Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: When I was interrupted on a point of Order, I was in possession of the House. I do not think it is right to vote for a diminution of the sum when we do not know all the facts. The Government may be perfectly right in this matter or they may be wrong, I do not know. I do not want to vote for the reduction of £100 in rates. I may be doing an injustice to the Department concerned, or to some authority whose rates are to be cut out. It is not until we know what Departments are concerned that we shall be able adequately to discuss the matter. Of course, I shall be guided by your ruling, Sir, but I venture with great respect as a protest to move my Motion to report progress, and to ask leave to sit again because these Estimates do not give us sufficient information to enable the House properly to discuss the question. I desire to move that Motion definitely, and I hope that you will take it.Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
1864: I was a little afraid that I was out of order, but I hoped I had been sufficiently skilful to get round that fence. I see a great many
1864Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: I wish to draw attention not so much to the one-fifth of this sum, but to the four-fifths, namely, the £271,000 necessitated by the rise in the poundage of rates. We are in this difficult position, that if we reject this Supplementary Estimate it puts up the rates which everybody else has to pay, because local authorities have to get their money. What to my mind is wrong about the Estimate is that the Government ought to have foreseen, and could have foreseen, that their administration would inevitably put up the rates and the poundage of the rates by the enormous sums that it has during the last few months, and that their coming here for these supplementary sums is the result of a rise in rates which was inevitable considering the number of commitments they were forcing on the local authorities. We are asked to give this enormous sum of money in support of the expenditure of local authorities for Government buildings, and we are not told anything to show which of the Departments is mainly responsible for the £271,000 increase. The Government could undoubtedly have done without so large a sum had they not occupied not only these buildings in London alone, but so many valuable, highly-rated premises in all the provincial towns of the country. Supposing there is no employment exchange in a town, the Labour Minister comes down and takes the most expensive office promises that he can in the whole town, and so it is all over the country.Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: My suggestion was not the property, but the Departments.Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: We are entitled to try to ascertain exactly which Departments are concerned in this matter. We are told it is mainly the War Department, and I think we are entitled to extract from the Government what proportion of this £348,000 is on account of the various Departments.Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
6.  asked the Secretary of State for India when the Burma Reform Bill will be introduced; and whether he will give sufficient interval between the introduction of the Bill and its reference to the Standing Joint Committee of both Houses of Parliament to enable the opinions of the various persons interested to be made public?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Will the Government take into consideration the precedent of the action of the Australian Parliament with regard to New Guinea, which is embodied in the New Guinea Act, recently passed?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman bear in mind the fact that the Australian Government and Parliament did actually amend the forced labour clause of the Mandate with respect to New Guinea, and amended it in a progressive direction?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware of the great feeling of injustice that exists among the gamekeepers all over the country, on the ground that, while foresters and all agricultural labourers are excluded from the Act, gamekeepers have suddenly been included; and will he take steps to obtain from the Gamekeepers' Association the grounds which have been laid before the Department—I have done it myself—on which they desire exemption?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
57.  asked the Prime Minister if the Government have in their possession any information which would indicate the amount of indemnity which the Germans hoped to extract from this country and the method they intended to use to secure payment?Mr. W. SHAW
: Is not the Juvenile Exchange at Barking for people who reside at Barking?Mr. THORNE
: Could not some provision be made so that men and women who are living at Barking would be allowed to register at the Exchange at Barking instead of having to walk 1½ miles in one case and 2 miles in the other?Mr. W. THORNE
41.  asked the Minister of Labour if he is aware that a number of adult workers reside at Barking who have to attend at the East Ham Employment Exchange to sign on and that at times the adults in question have to remain there some hours before they can sign on; that additional huts are about to be fixed up at the back of the existing premises in East Ham; and that there is a Juvenile Exchange at Barking; whether some arrangements will be made so that the adults can sign on at the Employment Exchange at Barking so as to relieve the pressure at East Ham; and if he will take action in the matter?Mr. W. THORNE
: Has the right hon. Gentleman endeavoured to ascertain from the ex-service men now out of employment the number desiring to serve as apprentices in the building trade?Mr. W. THORNE
: Is it not a fact that very strenuous efforts are now being made by employers connected with Trade Boards to bring about wholesale wage reductions in the trades affected by the Trade Boards Act?Mr. W. THORNE
1782: Is it not the fact that in all previous agreements arrived at between the building trade employers and employed the labourers in question have received the advantages conceded? Does
1782Mr. W. THORNE
25.  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty why labourers at the Harbour of Refuge, Peterhead, Scotland, are the only men who have not participated in the award in accordance with the agreement of the building trades of 1920; and whether he will take action in the matter?Mr. W. THORNE
 Can the right hon. Gentleman give the total amount borrowed for these particular premises in Carlisle, the total amount of expenditure, and whether it is a fact that there is a credit balance due?Mr. W. THORNE
51. 1798 asked the Prime Minister the total amount
1798Mr. CHARLES EDWARDS
7. 1771 asked the Secretary of State for India whether an order for motor car chassis required by the Govern-
1771Mr. MANVILLE
: Does the right hon. Gentleman really think that in times such as these the Government of India ought to have ordered material of that sort from Italy, seeing what the position of the motor car industry is in this country?Mr. MANVILLE
8.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he is aware that British manufacturers are preparing special designs for motor vehicles at the request of the India Office and submitting vehicles for trial in April; and will he, under these circumstances, see that the requirements of the India Office for motor transport in India are satisfied through British manufacturers?Mr. MANVILLE
: May we take it in consonance with the right hon. Gentleman's answer that we are the most generous of the Great Powers on the question of unemployed?Sir H. BRITTAIN
62.  asked the Minister of Labour how the rates of unemployment pay per head per week in this country compare with the rates obtaining in the United States, France, Belgium, and Italy, respectively?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Is it not a fact that the chairman is an official, an assistant secretary, in the Home Office?Sir H. CRAIK
: Should the chairman of such a Board, who represents the public, have an official connection with a Government Department?Sir H. CRAIK
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that I happen to be one of the Court of Referees, and practically the question does arise whether or not an applicant who has had partial domestic service and is offered complete domestic service and refuses it, is available for benefit or not. My question is, What is the regulation made by the Ministry of Labour to distinguish between these two classes?Sir F. FLANNERY
: YesSir F. FLANNERY
: Will my right hon. Friend state what is the policy of the Department in distinguishing between resident and non-resident applicants for domestic service?Sir F. FLANNERY
: My right hon. Friend has distinguished between those who are applicants for resident and those for non-resident domestic service. I am asking him what is the rule of the Department in distinguishing or dividing such applicants into one class or the other.Sir F. FLANNERY
: Is it the policy of the Government of India to buy cheaply or to assist in the employment of British workers?Sir FORTESCUE FLANNERY
: When will the Report of the Cabinet Committee on this question be issued?Sir F. FLANNERY
1901: I entirely agree with my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Inskip), but I venture very respectfully to say that he has led us a little astray from the point on which the Committee desire information. I want to associate myself entirely with the appeal for the withdrawal of the Vote. The Committee desire to get at the precise facts of this transaction. They would not, and I would not for a moment, desire to reduce this Vote if the Government have a reasonable explanation to give in answer to the legitimate question put to them by
1901Mr. MARRIOTT
4.  asked the Secretary of State for India if he can make any statement on the extent to which native traders are refusing to meet British liabilities at any rate of exchange except 10 rupees to the £; and whether the Government is taking any action or can take any action to relieve the existing tension arising therefrom in commercial circles?Mr. CLOUGH
17.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether in the instructions issued to the governors of Indian provinces or presidencies they are directed to safeguard all members of His Majesty's services in the legitimate exercise of their functions and in the enjoyment of all recognised rights and privileges, and to see that no order of the Local Provincial Council or of the Local Legislative Council shall be so framed that any of the diverse interests of, or arising from, race, religion, education, social condition, wealth, or any other circumstance may receive unfair advantage, or may unfairly be deprived of privileges or advantages which they have heretofore enjoyed; and whether he is responsible to Parliament to see that governors of provinces act in accordance with his instructions?Sir WILLIAM DAVISON
: I understand that this Parliament can ascertain facts which occur in these legislatures or with regard to the action of the governors without interfering with what actually takes place?Sir W. DAVISON
18.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether, seeing that in the preamble of the Government of India Act it is expressly stated that the Imperial Parliament, in considering the gradual development of self-governing institutions in India, must be guided by the co-operation received from those in whom new opportunities of service will be conferred and by the extent to which it is found that confidence can be reposed in their sense of responsibility, he will inform the House whether Members of Parliament will be able to ascertain from the Secretary of State from time to time as to the manner in which the various provincial councils are dealing with matters committed to them so that Parliament may be guided as to its future action regarding the conferring of further responsibilities on such provincial councils?Sir W. DAVISON
: In ascertaining whether the applicant is capable of performing the work, are the women questioned as to whether they have ever been in domestic service, or merely asked what their immediately preceding employmnt was?Sir W. DAVISON
: Could it not be considered whether training classes for women, such as are suggested in the question, could be instituted under Lord St. David's scheme?Viscount CURZON
38.  asked the Minister of Labour what steps are being taken by the Government to relieve unemployment amongst women; whether the institution by local authorities of training classes for unemployed women would come under the heads of works of public utility for the purposes of receiving public grants in aid; and whether Labour Exchanges, when dealing with unemployed men and women, have any system for notifying offers of employment in other areas than that for which the applicant is registered?Viscount CURZON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that I was requested to take a question off the Paper to-day which related solely to a question of fact and nothing else?Viscount CURZON
24.  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty whether he can say what will be the relative strength of America, Japan, and Great Britain in capital ships in 1924 and 1925 if the present building proposals are carried out, and if ships at present under construction are completed; and whether he can indicate how many ships in each case will embody the lessons learnt in the Great War?Viscount CURZON
21.  asked the First Lord of the Admiralty how much prize money has been paid to officers and men of the Royal Navy to date what is the total amount of the prize fund; how much of this fund will be available for distribution to the Royal Navy; and is it intended to issue a balance sheet at an Viscount CURZON
: Is it contemplated making a second distribution of prize money to officers and men of the Royal Navy?Viscount CURZON
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether these chassis were new ones or cars which had been used during the War?Captain Viscount CURZON
: In view of the vast importance of the question raised by the hon. Member and the distinguished position he fills in the economic world, will the right hon. Gentleman ask him for suggestions by which the money of the State can be saved?Earl WINTERTON
: In the cases to which my right hon. Friend has referred as being retained by the Ministry of Pensions, does the Treasury ask the Ministry of Pensions to give detailed reasons why they have retained those buildings after they said they were going to be given up?Earl WINTERTON
1892: I was referring to the disturbed area in Southern Ireland. I am sure the hon. Member, as much as anyone, would be willing to help ex-service men. Many of the constitutional Nationalist party have gone to personal risk in doing so. But I am not referring to the North but to a large portion of the disturbed area. Obviously, if you are going to give the ex-service man in Ireland a chance of earning his living by intensive training in civilian life anywhere, you must give it in all parts of Ireland. If you cannot train him in the South of Ireland, you must give him an opportunity of being trained in England. Having regard to the condition of the ex-service man in the South of Ireland, I think it is right that we should have a statement from the Minister of Labour as to the steps they have taken to deal with the situation and how far in their training schemes they have been able to meet that situation.1892Earl WINTERTON
1891: I should like to ask two questions on another point in these Votes. First of all with regard to Sub-head D. Furniture, fittings and utensils, increased cost of labour and materials for the Ministry of Labour and for the Ministry of Pensions. I presume this is due to the lack of hospitals. I am not sure how far it is legitimate on this Vote to inquire of the presentative of the Ministry of Labour the exact purpose which is served by these training centres. I suppose there is no one in the House on either side who does not wish to see the fullest possible opportunity given to ex-service men in any part of the United Kingdom to be fitted by intensive, specialist, or by general training to earn his living in civilian employment. But we are always coming up against this difficulty where the question of the spending of money in Ireland is concerned. How are these men to obtain employment when they have been trained? Can the bon. Member tell me, for example, in the disturbed part of Ireland of any ex-service men who have been trained at Government training centres who have been able to
1891Earl WINTERTON
1.  asked the Minister of Pensions how many cases there have been in which an ex-service man or his widow have claimed a pension which has been refused on the ground that the disability was not the result of war service; and whether he is aware of the dissatisfaction which some of these decisions are causing?Captain TERRELL
5.  asked the Minister of Pensions if he is aware of the dissatisfaction felt both by local pension committees and by ex-service men as regards the awards of disability pensions; and can he see his way to recommend the Government to so remodel the present system as to ensure a greater feeling of confidence in the public mind with the ultimate awards?Mr. TREVELYAN THOMSON
2.  asked the Minister of Pensions whether in all cases when the appeal of an ex-service man, as distinct from an officer, is under consideration, steps are taken to ensure that on the Appeal Tribunal there is always an ex-service man as a member of the deciding body?Captain TERRELL
: As the hon. and gallant Gentleman cannot answer, Why is not the Minister of Pensions here? Is he electioneering? Could he not choose another day for that? [HON. MEMBERS: "Penistone!"]Dr. MURRAY
: Will the right hon. Gentleman include in the list those soldiers or policemen who were murdered while unarmed?Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
26.  asked the Prime Minister whether, without detriment to the interests of the nations involved, he can give the House any information as to the strength and composition of the League of Nations force which is under orders to proceed to Poland to occupy Vilna; and will he say by whom the expenses of the force are being met and where it is located at present?Colonel NEWMAN
: With reference to the reply to my question, does not the right hon. Gentleman recall the definition of an Archdeacon as an ecclesiastical officer who performs Archidiaconal functions?Sir J. D. REES
33.  asked the Prime Minister if he is aware that great quantities of work are available in country districts; that those requiring work are prevented from taking this work owing to the inelasticity of the regulations of the Wages Board; and if he will direct that modifications be made in the regulations, with a view to removing this present cause of unemployment?Captain BROWN
28. 2005 asked the Prime Minister if events in Cilicia since the Armistice afford any justification for the contention that the Armenians have been
2005Sir J. D. REES
: Is it not a fact that all that the opposition want is a Constituent Assembly for Russia?Colonel NEWMAN
: I cannot add anything to what I have said.Mr. HARMSWORTH
 asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether His Majesty's Government are in receipt of any information with regard to a reported attempt to overthrow the Communist Government in Moscow and Petrograd?by Private NoticeColonel NEWMAN
: Reports similar to those which have appeared in the Press have reached H.M. representatives in the Baltic States to the effect that disorders have recently occurred in Moscow and Petrograd. It appears that in Moscow the trouble originated amongst the workmen, while in Petrograd it extended to the sailors and the soldiers of the Red Army. Later information tends to show that the revolts have for the present been suppressed by the military forces of the Soviet Government.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Would it not be sufficient to commandeer the motor-cars of people who have been convicted of offences against the Motor-Car Act.Dr. MURRAY
45.  asked the Prime Minister whether he could lay upon the Table of the House a paper showing the amount of German field guns, machine guns, rifles, aeroplanes, motor transport wagons, army horses, and ammunition actually surrendered to the Allies since the Armistice; whether during the period I of surrender of these instruments of war any post-war weapons have been constructed; and, if so, to what extent?Colonel C. LOWTHER
46.  asked the Prime Minister whether the disarmament of Germany, as stipulated by the Treaty of Versailles, has been duly carried out; whether he can state the number of German soldiers and sailors disbanded since the Armistice; if there is any late census return showing whether these masses of disbanded men have found industrial employment; and how many have drifted into bellicose bodies who, under the guise of police, reichswehr, cadetten corps, or Russian Reds, or other subtle misnomers, would, at a critical moment, form the nucleus of a redoubtable army?Colonel LOWTHER
47.  asked what steps have been taken by the Allies to curb the future military equipment of Germany, with a view to mitigating the danger of a German-Russian alliance?Colonel LOWTHER
48.  asked the Prime Minister on what date the Secretary of State for the Colonies proposes to leave this country for Egypt; what will be the composition of his staff; whether he proposes to meet Arab leaders with a view to consulting them; how long it will be necessary for him to remain in Egypt; what will be the approximate cost of the mission; what results are hoped for; and whether a full report will be presented to this House?Mr. A. T. DAVIES
: His Majesty's Government holds in the Anglo-Persian Oil Company 5,000,000 ordinary shares, 1,000 preferences shares, and 199,000 debentures. There is no market quotation for the ordinary shares. The Government has no intention of disposing of its holding.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Yes, Sir; I am told we have received dividends. I think we have reinvested some of them.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Is it not a fact that the recalcitrant attitude of the German delegates is largely due to the ex-Prime Minister having publicly stated at Penistone that Germany would not be able to pay more than £2,000,000,000 as the total amount of War indemnity?Colonel C. LOWTHER
2016 asked the Prime Minister whether he can make a statement as to the position
2016by Private NoticeMr. A. T. DAVIES
: I suppose "he" includes "she"?Colonel NEWMAN
2079: The Noble Lord opposite suggested that hon. Members who were not directly connected with labour might well express an opinion on this subject as representing the general public, and I propose to accept his invitation. It has been my privilege, for some months, to sit on a Labour Exchange Committee of Inquiry appointed by the right hon. Gentleman the Minister for Labour, and one of the facts which emerged from that inquiry was that a certain amount of suspicion existed on the side both of
2079Mr. TREVELYAN THOMSON
: This has been going on regularly every week since 1911, and the Labour Exchanges are charged with the responsibility of seeing that the duty is carried out conscientiously in the interests of the taxpayer.Mr. THOMSON
: If there is suitable work available no payment is made to an employé, and if he feels aggrieved he can appeal to the local committee and to the Court of Referees. No doubt this will take time, but if the decision of the Labour Exchange has in the first instance been against the insured person the benefit is suspended and he is not receiving any payment. There is another and further security, and that is in the trade unions themselves. In a large proportion of the insured trades the insurance is effected by the trade union as well as through the State scheme, and experience we have shows us that the administration of the trade unions is, if anything, more severe in watching that payment is not made without cause than it is on the part of the Labour Exchanges. Therefore we have a double security. I submit it would be inadvisable, after ten years' experience, to, at this critical time in our industrial history, seek to vary a practice which has worked soundly and well. The right hon. Baronet the Member for the City of London (Sir F. Banbury) said that, in the first instance, the remarks of the Minister of Labour appealed to him as suggesting that there was a contract with the insured parties with regard to the benefits to be administered, and that it would not be fair, therefore, to vary the conditions. But later the right hon. Baronet went on to say that as already the terms under which the unemployment benefit was granted had been varied there was no reason why there should not be a further change. That would be a perfectly sound argument if we were dealing with a new Bill and new conditions. But the administration of benefits to be paid as from to-morrow, if this Bill passes into law, will be in respect of contributions which have been made under the old conditions, and therefore we must keep faith with those who have insured on conditions laid down in the 1911 and 1920 Acts. We should be breaking faith with the insured people if we now sought to impose a further condition which was not laid down when the original Act was passed. Under these circumstances I hope we shall support the Minister in his resistance to the Lords Amendment.Mr. THOMSON
: I support the Government because I believe that to introduce the principle of Poor Law relief into unemployment insurance is wrong.Mr. DENNISS
: Of course I will not include the Noble Lord in the general waive of my hand, but hon. Members must remember that these increased benefits that are given to the unemployed are really to a large extent paid out of a pool to which they have contributed in the past, and therefore on that ground I support the action of the Government in asking that the Lords Amendment be rejected, more particularly for the reasons given by the Leader of the Labour party (Mr. Clynes), with which I entirely agree.Mr. DENNISS
2088: I never expected to hear the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Banbury) advocating a policy which would lead to immorality or the breaking
2088Major BARNES
2089: When I heard of this Amendment I noted on my Paper that it was a curious Amendment to come from people who were supporters of differentiation in the matter of the Income Tax. I do not know whether the argument I am submitting would or should lead me to become a supporter of the right hon. Baronet. I will consider it from that point of view, and if it appears to do so I will endeavour to face even that possibility. Then, certainly, it would lead to idleness, and it is rather curious to hear the right hon. Baronet speaking in the same breath about increased production and then proposing by this Amendment to penalise families in which both husband and wife go out to work. Normally, I do not believe in the wife going out to work. I think she can find a great deal more work inside the house than she is likely to find outside, but there are a number of cases where married people carry on separate occupations, and those are just the kind of people who are engaged in increasing production, which would be imperilled by the Amendment. Certainly, it would lead to waste, because this penalises not only people who are in receipt of wages, but who are in receipt of annuities or other income, and that is certainly a very surprising doctrine to come from the other side, that people who by the exercise of industry and thrift have secured some other income than that in which they are earning wages should by an Amendment of this sort be placed in a disadvantageous position as compared
2089Major BARNES
: I beg to move "That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Dr. MACNMARA
: This Amendment varies the conditions in the other direction. I draw attention to it as a privilege Amendment.Mr. DEPUTY - SPEAKER
2095: It is unfortunate that this Act should be curtailed in its benefits to the extent of even one year. The right hon. Gentleman has said that before the period elapses no doubt the whole question will be reconsidered, but, surely, a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush, and to give away something which is a certainty for something which may not materialise is a mistake. I regret that the Government should have sought to agree with the Lords on this point. I do not know whether it is a sop to them that, having rejected three material Amendments, they are going to accept one which is of some considerable substance. It is very
2095Mr. T. THOMSON
: After what the right hon. Gentleman has just said, I hope the Government will reconsider its decision.Mr. HOPKINSON
: I fear it is quite useless, although it is one's duty, to endeavour to put considerations before the House which may be of value. This particular Amendment of the Lords will have the effect of diminishing the period during which unemployment is rife. The whole point of the Amendment is that if a man has worked at a certain trade or branch of a trade, and he finds himself unable to get employment in that particular branch of his trade he shall be forced to accept a position in some other analogous or suitable branch of trade before he is allowed to come on the unemployed benefit. I am quite aware that the Amendment completely cuts across the whole policy of trade unions of the present day. That is the policy of limiting the form of work which any given man may take up. That policy is the basis of the dispute on demarcation which are giving rise to a very great amount of unemployment. I speak from some experience, for only last week I was building a cottage for myself, and I employed a bricklayer to do certain work on the outside of the house which the Plasterers' Union said was their work, and the plasterers came out on strike. This Amendment of the Lords will prevent a vast amount of unemployment which is due to demarcation disputes, and the Government's policy in objecting to the Amendment is simply a policy of helping these demarcation disputes to continue. It is the policy of subsidising by the taxpayers' money these absurd demarcation disputes. It is impossible to get consideration of these matters in the way that they deserve. When we have the Minister of Labour informing us quite bluntly that he adopts all these fallacies for which trade unions and the Labour party are notorious, it is quite hopeless for anyone who has studied the subject to some extent and who has had some practical experience to do anything in this House to relieve the present state of unemployment.Mr. HOPKINSON
2098: I hope that the Government will agree to the Lords Amendment. The Minister of Labour has drawn our attention to the case of a
2098Colonel NEWMAN
2099: Who was offered employment as a shipyard labourer. The right hon. Gentleman said it would be unreasonable to suggest that that was suitable employment for him. An hon. Member has pointed out that this is a most critical time in our industrial history. The Great War was a most critical time in our national history. In the Great War watchmakers and other people took jobs in the trenches which they did not think was suitable employment, for which they were physically fit. I do not believe that the average workman in the country to-day would approve of having this Act turned into a great system of doles for unemployed, and if he was told, "Here is a watchmaker who can have a job as a shipyard labourer; he is a perfectly fit and strong man," the ordinary British workman would say, "He—well ought to go."2099Colonel NEWMAN
: Harsh cases make bad law. The right hon. Gentleman instanced the undoubtedly hard case of the watchmaker who might be called upon to take up work as a shipyard labourer. By dwelling on that illustration the Minister of Labour would make bad law of this Bill. Representing, as I do, a constituency which is partly residential, partly industrial, I can confirm what was said by an hon. Member that there is a great deal of feeling at the present moment amongst the small residential class when they cannot obtain domestic servants. They only want one, or perhaps at the most, two, and they are willing to pay reasonable wages and to give a good home, but for some reason or other domestic service is unpopular, and domestic servants are not to be obtained. I suppose to some extent they feel that they are losing their freedom. They are perfectly entitled to do what they like, but it is hard that people who are prepared to employ these young women and to give them good wages should be compelled to contribute towards unemployment benefit because they will not accept that work. I wish the right hon. Gentleman could see his way to agree with the Lords Amendment, or at any rate, to introduce some words in substitution therefor. He has just said that his Department are going to issue all sorts of instructions to every committee, but I would rather see those instructions and regulations embodied in the Act, than have them left in the discretion of a body of Government officials.Colonel LAMBERT WARD
: I should like to have some explanation why the increase asked for is required. I can quite understand that with the great increase in the National Debt additional accommodation and staff must be required, but it does seem to me that before being asked to pass this Vote we might have a statement from some Minister responsible for it as to the nature of the increase and the particular direction in which the money that is being asked for is applied. So far as I am concerned, I should rather welcome some expenditure in this direction, if it resulted in the provision of some statistics which would, I think, be of a particularly illuminating character at the present time. For instance, I should like to know very much how the National Debt is held. I should like to know whether the additional amount for clerical assistance is to be devoted towards giving us some statistics, On this question of the National Debt, I think there is a great deal of interesting information which we ought to have, and which would have a very real bearing on the financial policy of the Government. I should also like to get information with regard to incomes—the number of people with an income of £100, of £1,000, and so on.Major BARNES
2117: I thought £10 was simply a sort of Token Vote in order to comply with some form of procedure. I see there is an amount of £250 for additional clerical assistance, and I wish to know the direction in which it has
2117Major BARNES
: I rise to support this Amendment. During the War there was an idea that everybody's salary should be doubled, and in many cases that was probably necessary, but surely the Government know that prices are now tumbling down, and are likely to continue falling for some considerable time to come unless, by anti-dumping Bills, you make the cost of living much higher. I wonder whether the Government by such proposals as this are making provision to meet the additional cost of commodities under their prospective protective legislation. Otherwise there is no justification for it. The right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir F. Banbury) tells us that you can get lots of perfectly capable men at the salary which a Comptroller-General is receiving, and why should he be paid £500 a year extra at this moment? If the Government are determined to keep up the price of commodities by their proposed legislation they ought to increase other salaries as well, and I am sure that I could make out a claim for increasing the salaries of Members of Parliament. There is no explanation as to why the broker's remuneration is to be increased.Dr. MURRAY
: I object to these big increases in the higher paid branches of the Service. I am advised, Mr. Chairman, by the authorities on procedure around me, that provision for the broker is provided for in item A, and therefore I think I was in order.Dr. MURRAY
2119: What I was saying applies with equal force to the broker because the proportion of increase is greater. No doubt the broker has to deal with much bigger sums of money. Probably he has the same number of hours to work, and I see no reason why these big
2119Dr. MURRAY
ebonâ fide2121: Without going further into the points which have been raised already, I do wish to protest against these increases being wrapped up in this Supplementary Vote of £10. It is really a Supplementary Vote for £2,200. I fail to see the reason or desirability of including this Appropriation-in-Aid for a matter hardly ancillary to the Vote on the Paper. I contend that this £2,190 which is used to reduce the Estimate ought really to be an excess expenditure which should go to other purposes at the end of the financial year. It seems to me that if these Supplementary Estimates are going to be cloaked by any windfalls which the Department can rake in for the purpose of hiding any further
ebonâ fide2121Mr. J. W. WILSON
: Can the right hon. Gentleman tell us whether in addition to the increase of salary that is to be given these bureaucrats have shared in the War bonus for which a sum of £6,100 was provided for this Department in the supplementary War bonus during the closing days of last year?Colonel L. WARD
: On the question of raising this gentleman's salary, the Committee is entitled to know how much money he is receiving from the public purse.Colonel L. WARD
: We cannot now discuss the general principle of war bonus.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Can the right, hon. Gentleman say whether the Member of the Civil Service who is to receive an increase of salary has been receiving war bonus during the current year, and, if so, how much?Colonel L. WARD
"One receives £100 per annum from Class IV (2) and £50 per annum from Brompton Cemetery Funds. Another stationed in China and Japan occupies an official residence and receives a foreign service allowance of £350 per annum."2143: The other day, when that glorious and interesting right hon. Gentleman, who is sometimes Secretary for the Air and is sometimes travelling in the Colonies, presented his Estimates, he compared his Air Estimate to a plum tree which produced plums. He did not tell us much about it. Possibly to-night it might be just as well to compare the right hon. Gentleman's Estimate to a plum tree, and
"One receives £100 per annum from Class IV (2) and £50 per annum from Brompton Cemetery Funds. Another stationed in China and Japan occupies an official residence and receives a foreign service allowance of £350 per annum."2143Lieut.-Commander WILLIAMS
: If it is for a new staff, it opens up a wider question, and, of course, the hon. and gallant Gentleman can use the original Estimates for a statement of facts in so far as they help the Committee to understand this, but he must not discuss anything which has been passed previously.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
2144: I thank you for your guidance, and I will endeavour merely to elicit from the right
2144Lieut. - Commander WILLIAMS
: I think that is getting too wide.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
2145: I will go back to the original Estimate, and perhaps I may be allowed to point out, as regards Section A, we not only have a considerable increase at the present time of something like £70,000, for which some small amount of explanation has been given, but early in the year there was an increase of over £170,000, making for the whole year a total increase of something in the neighbourhood of £240,000 for this one branch in salaries, wages and allowances for the year. In other words, you have very nearly doubled the amount which was expended in 1919 and 1920, and this at a time when the whole nation is absolutely burdened with taxation, and is groaning under the burden which is being imposed on it by a countless number of officials, who invariably interfere with almost every line of business at the present time. The right hon. Gentleman told us just now, as I understood him, that as regards Section A, the £26,000, there would be no bonus to these particular persons, who had an increase because of the additional rise in prices. As I understood his statement, these people come under rather a different scheme from the ordinary Civil Service. Will their salaries be lowered just as the ordinary Civil Service salaries are lowered, on a four months' basis, or will they be reduced immediately the cost of living goes down?2145Lieut.-Commander WILLIAMS
: I was endeavouring to find out what proportion of this additional Supplementary Estimate, if any, went to this particular individual.Lieut.-Commander WILLIAMS
: This is a Supplementary Estimate, and I understood the right hon. Gentleman himself to say that this was for an increased staff for an entirely new service.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Are we to understand that a technical staff of 532 is engaged in building some 3,000 odd houses?Mr. HOPKINSON
2163: I am not speaking from a personal point of view, but as a member of the Council of the Institute of British Architects. I feel I could not sit here and let that pass if I were to do my duty to my members
2163Major BARNES
: As an architect, I think it was most unworthy of the right hon. Gentleman to cast a slur on a very honourable profession by saying that for the planning of schemes they had to rely on great London architects and not on incompetent local architects.Major BARNES
41.  asked the Prime Minister whether any decision has been arrived at as to whether the protectorate of Aden is to remain under the India Office and the Government of India or whether, under the present changed circumstances, the Colonial Office will assume responsibility?Major GLYN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether, pending the decision of the Cabinet concerning the Aden protectorate, urgent matters may be referred direct to London and not to the Government of India?Major GLYN
7.  asked the Minister of Pensions whether he is aware that in the event of a dependant entering a rate-aided institution, for instance, a lunatic asylum, the pension to which such an individual is entitled is suspended during such period as the dependant remains an inmate of the institution; whether the ratepayers under these circumstances in fact have to shoulder a responsibility that is really the State's obligation; and whether, in such circumstances, he will consider the desirability of providing that, in lieu of suspension of the money to which the individual is entitled, it should be paid to the local authorities in relief of the rates until the inmate emerges from such an institution?Major GLYN
6.  asked the Minister of Pensions whether he is aware of the unrest and dissatisfaction which exists amongst widows, dependants, and disabled men in connection with the present rates of disability pensions, which do not allow them to live in comfort; and whether, seeing that the grant of supplementary allowances in certain cases amounts to an admission of the inadequacy of the present flat rate, he will consider the desirability of increasing the pension to men totally disabled and to the widows and children of men who fell in the War?Colonel Sir A. HOLBROOK
37.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware that men employed in the building trade on housing schemes in the neighbourhood of Andover are being attracted from their employment by offers of work at more remunerative rates in connection with the rehabilitation of the aerodrome at Weyhill; if the latter work can be postponed until the housing difficulty has been overcome; will he give instructions that ex-service men only shall be engaged on the work so that housing can proceed simultaneously; and if he will ascertain from the Disposal Board the loss incurred by the delay in disposing of the materials of the Weyhill Aerodrome camp, the greater portion of which has been rendered valueless owing to exposure for two years since demobilisation.Sir A. HOLBROOK
63. 2015 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the large
2015Major NALL
indicated dissent: Has not the right hon. Gentleman himself said that Germany and the other Powers stumbled into the War—[The PRIME MINISTER indicated dissentLieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: How many times has the Soviet Government fallen now?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: As the subsequent question will not be reached, will the right hon. Gentleman say that, if the facts are as stated in that question, the Government will deal with the matter very severely indeed, and how can we expect propaganda not to be engaged in in this country if we permit it ourselves abroad?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: By the mother.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
 asked the Chief Secretary whether he is aware that Mr. T. Healy, K.C., has not drawn up a series of questions to be put to Captain King, R.I.C., bearing on the Mallow inquiry, and has refused to accept such procedure; and whether he will now require Captain King to be produced as a witness?by Private NoticeLieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Will it not be possible to adjourn the Court to Scotland, or part of the Court, and give Mr. Healy a chance of examining the witness? It is in the interests of justice.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
 asked the Chief Secretary whether Dermot O'Sullivan, aged 17 years, has been sentenced to death in connection with the Drumcondra ambush on 21st January last; whether he is aware that the evidence against this youth is not conclusive; and whether it is intended to execute a youth of 17 years of age on such evidence?by Private NoticeLieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: May I ask the right hon. Gentleman if he himself has seen the evidence, and is he aware that there is some grave doubt about the matter in regard to the identification?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
12.  asked the Chief Secretary whether Mrs. James Ryan, wife of the hon. Member for South Wexford, who is in prison without charge, was arrested on 16th February last at Wexford for having refused to allow a martial law proclamation to be exhibited in the window of her private house and imprisoned in Water-ford gaol; whether she was taken away from an infant aged eight months; what steps have the authorities taken to see that the infant, now parentless, is provided for; and whether it is with his approval that the military power compels a lady in Mrs. Ryan's position to exhibit a martial law proclamation in her private house?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Are we to understand that Mrs. Ryan has paid the fine and been released, and is now at liberty?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Have you arrested the baby yet?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Does that mean that anyone in England can be arrested under the Restoration of Order in Ireland Act, and be taken over to Ireland to be tried there?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Does the Act apply here? May I have an answer? [HON. MEMBERS: "Be careful!"]Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Will the right hon. Gentleman write to the Member who puts the question and let him know?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: They do not like it.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Has this money been paid out already, before we vote the sum?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
2118: I wish to say a word or two in full support of what the hon. Baronet opposite has said. At the end of last Session the Financial Secretary to the Treasury brought forward a charge before this House of many millions for bonus to Civil servants, and although I considered that the lower paid ranks badly required this bonus, I protested against it being given to the officials in the higher ranks, and I voted against the Government. Here there is no talk of bonus, and it is simply an increase of salary. This £2,000 a year is the salary of an admiral who has spent his whole life in the service, and if this official gets £2,000 he is very well
2118Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
8. 1978 asked the Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland whether compensation will be paid, or has been paid, to the relatives of the late Mr. Crowley, murdered by cadet Hart, of the Auxiliary Police; who will find the money; whether he is aware that Mr. Brady, resident
1978Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Does the right hon. Gentleman think it just in a case of admitted murder by a policeman that the rates should be charged with the compensation to the relatives? Has he not enough humanity to award some compensation—[HON. MEMBERS: "Shame!"]—to the widow and seven children without their having to claim against the rates?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Was not something paid to Mrs. Quin and was her husband forced to appeal? Cannot the right hon. Gentleman exercise a little grace in these matters?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Was Mr. Brady's house raided?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
9.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he is aware that John O'Connor, of Gloundaeagh, Farranfore, Co. Kerry, was arrested on 15th December last whilst on his way to church, and driven away in a motor lorry; that he was beaten while in the lorry, thrown from the lorry into the road, fired on, and wounded; that civilians then carried him into the house of Thomas Brosnan, Threegneves, Currow, Farranfore, where he was tended by the Rev. J. J. O'Sullivan, of Killentierna, Farranfore; that four officers returned from Farranfore, to which place the lorry had proceeded, in a motor car, and, on ascertaining from the Rev. J. J. O'Sullivan where O'Connor lay wounded, entered Brosnan's house and murdered O'Connor by firing three revolver bullets into his head; whether he is aware that the Rev. J. J. O'Sullivan, Mr. Brosnan, and other eye witnesses are prepared to testify to the foregoing facts on oath; whether an inquiry has been held; whether these witnesses were called; what was the finding; what action, if any, has been taken; and whether any compensation is to be paid to the widow and seven children of the murdered man?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Is it not a fact that I drew the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to this case two months ago, and how is it that it takes nearly three months before a disgraceful episode of this sort is looked into?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Who refers a case to the referee? Is it the employer or the girl?Sir E. NICHOLL
: What sort of a watchmaker is he likely to be if he remains in idleness for a long period?Mr. E. WOOD
2100: I am surprised that my right hon. Friend did not devote more attention to this Amendment than he appeared to do. While I do not associate myself with every phrase which was used by the hon. and gallant Member opposite, I think that there is more substance in what he said than some hon. Gentlemen opposite appeared to think. I press this point on the ground of principle. The hon. Gentleman quoted the case of domestic servants. He had in mind, no doubt, that there has been a shortage of domestic servants, a demand for them, and at the same time a large measure of unemployment among the classes who might normally find a certain number of
2100Mr. E. WOOD
2133: I should like to protest against the increase of the salaries of civil servants. The Civil Service is becoming rather a privileged class. They are to a certain extent privileged, because the majority of them have pensions, and it is impossible to compare them with people in business who have no pensions and have all the worries of business, not knowing whether later in life they will be perfectly comfortable, as is the case of the civil servant who has a pension coming from the Government. That is the great dif-
2133Mr. E. HARMSWORTH
: I never suggested that.Mr. HARMSWORTH
2157: I desire to add my protest to the others which have been made against the formation of what seems to be an entirely new Department, and also to call attention to the piece of information given to the Committee by the hon. Member for Hampstead (Mr. Balfour). There have been erected in the course of the year 116 houses, while the amount of money that seems to have been spent on officials is close on £80,000. In other words, the money for building schemes seems to have been spent to a great extent on officials and not on houses. As to the temporary staff having £26,000 for increased cost of living, I should like also to protest. As we go through these Estimates, we pass enormous sums voted to officials for War bonus and increased cost of living, and, during the present time of financial crisis through which the country is passing, when we are all hoping that wages in some industries may fall, it does seem absurd that we have to vote these large sums to these officials. I should also like to protest against the large amount for travelling expenses, and to ask the right hon. Gentleman exactly what class these officials travel when they are travelling for the housing scheme. Do they travel first or third class? It is a very important point, because there is a feeling about that the officials in these Ministries continually travel first class. The other night there was a protest that only officials who receive over £1,200 a year should travel fist class, and it was admitted that officials earning between £400 and £600 did travel first class. Certainly no one outside the official class with an income of £400 to £600 can afford to travel first class. The
2157Mr. E. HARMSWORTH
: I am very sorry if the right hon. Gentleman objects to my saying that. [HON. MEMBERS: "Withdraw."] I will withdraw what I said, but I thought the right hon. Gentleman implied that the money would be got back, and did not say exactly in what way it would be got back. I do not think it really matters whether the money has to come from the taxpayer, which it would have to do in this case, or from the ratepayer. It comes from the same class of people more or less. The fact is that it has to come. I should like to add my protest against the Vote.Mr. HARMSWORTH
32.  asked the Prime Minister how many motor cars are at present in use by all the various Government Departments; and how many motor cars were in use by all the various Government Departments at this period of the year in 1914?Mr. E. HARMSWORTH
2002: Does the right hon. Gentleman see any reason why there should be such a great increase in the
2002Mr. HARMSWORTH
: The railway director gets £2,000 a year!Major WATTS MORGAN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that free men in this Realm are being charged 12½ groats for a noggin, and, further, is he aware that Magna Charta, dated 1215, laid down that "justice should be no longer delayed," whereas the Liquor Control Board was established in 1915, and will the right hon. Gentleman see that justice is no longer delayed in this respect.Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Is it not a fact that most of these murders and assassinations are carried out by youths who are Irish gunmen from America?Lieut.-Commander ASTBURY
: Will the right hon. Gentleman refrain from making declaration that everybody knows are fatal to any conference?Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
43.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the increase of murder, arson and looting in Ireland, and having regard to the fact that it has been shown that the use of force by the Government only leads to further murders and other violence, he will consider the advisability of holding a conference with the elected representatives of the Irish people, in order that their assistance and co-operation may be enlisted in securing the reign of law and order.Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
: Might I remind the right hon. Gentleman that the Irish leaders have lately made an announcement that they are willing to accept terms which this country could give and which are not in the least inconsistent with either the unity or the safety of this Empire or the supremacy of the Crown?Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
54.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he is aware that Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald, who was arrested on 16th February, was on 19th February placed in solitary confinement in a punishment cell in which there is not light enough at mid-day to read without candles; and that he has been deprived of the four hours' exercise in the open allowed to other prisoners, and is instead taken for 20 minutes' exercise in a corridor; and whether he will state by what authority special punishments are inflicted on untried and uncharged prisoners in gaol?Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
: Is not the right hon. Gentleman dishonouring the humanity of the British nation?Lord H. CAVENDISH-BENTINCK
: Does the right hon. Gentleman propose to take all the stages of the Coal Mines Decontrol Bill on Tuesday, or only the Second Reading?Lord R. CECIL
2124: I do not think the right hon. Gentleman quite grasped the criticism of my right hon. Friend the Member for Stourbridge (Mr. J. W. Wilson). It was not suggested that there was any intention to deceive the Committee in the way in which the Estimates were drawn. I should not associate myself with any such suggestion, and I am sure my right hon. Friend would not make it. But, whereas this appears to be only a Vote for £10, it is really a Vote for £2,200. That is the real point. I daresay it is in accordance with the ordinary practice, but it is quite an important item, for it is really an expenditure of £2,200 If the £2,200 had not been incurred it is evident that the appropriation in aid would have gone to a reduction of debt or some other purpose, and it would have been available for the relief of the taxpayer which it is not now. I want to say a word on what seems to be a general principle raised by my right hon. Friend. He said we paid Sir Thomas Heath on account of his great distinction, which I would be the last person to
2124Lord ROBERT CECIL
: Not what he was getting.Lord R. CECIL
2125: In point of fact it was an increase of salary on what he was getting at the Treasury. He said it was owing to the great desirability of getting Sir Thomas's services, and also to facilitate the re-organisation of the Treasury which was going on. He also told us in the same way about the broker, that it was a reasonable payment of £500 extra considering the immense addition of work. If we were in a pre-War period the Committee would have listened to this explanation with a great deal of sympathy; I should have for one. I think quite definitely that the Civil Service has been rather underpaid in this country, and if we were in a position to-day to do so, no one would be more in favour of raising the salaries of the civil servants than I should be. But we are not in the position of pre-War days. That is the essential thing for the Government to realise. We have not now got to be told that this is a desirable expenditure, but that it is an expenditure which could not have been avoided without very serious evils to the public service. It is a different atmosphere we are living in altogether. We have got to go much further than any casual criticism of Estimates, and you must lay down the principle of a definite sum which is not to be exceeded. That is the only way in which you will get back or rather reach a position which is comparable, which is suitable to the real facts of the existing situation. I do not doubt that it is in itself a desirable thing to give Sir Thomas Heath £2,500 a year. I do not doubt that he is a most desirable civil servant; I have always heard so. I do not doubt that the broker is not overpaid, but the question is, could we have avoided this expenditure without serious evils to the public service? I am not convinced that my right hon. Friend
2125Lord R. CECIL
: No, I think that is paid by the Treasury.Lord R. CECIL
indicated dissent. indicated dissent.Lord R. CECIL
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say what period is allowed between the confirmation and the carrying out of the sentence?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
: Is not this incident connected with the alleged looting of a bank at Strokestown, about which I asked the right hon. Gentleman in my speech on Tuesday, and as to which I have not yet had a reply?Mr. NEWBOULD
24.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he is aware that William J. Doherty was arrested in or near Strokestown, County Roscommon, on the 14th instant, and conveyed under military escort to Longford military barracks; whether Mr. Doherty is being kept in chains, and whether no one, not even the military chaplain, is allowed to see him; whether he is aware that Mr. Doherty's solicitor wrote to the officer in command asking for information as to the charge on which Mr. Doherty was being detained, and as to when and where it was proposed to try him; that although the solicitor requested an early reply for the purpose of preparing the defence no answer has been received; whether he will make inquiries into this matter; and whether he can now state the charge against Mr. Doherty and the date and place of his trial?Mr. WATERSON
14.  asked the Chief Secretary what precise degree of legal training is required of a Judge-Advocate at a court-martial?Mr. WATERSON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman prepared to make representations to the Cabinet on the lines suggested by the question of the hon. Member for the Falls Division of Belfast (Mr. Devlin)?Mr. WATERSON
3. 1976 asked the Minister of Pensions whether he is aware that many demobilised service men have died from various diseases which they had contracted during war service, the final stages only developing in civilian life; if he will state if anything can be done for the widows and children of such de-
1976Mr. WATERSON
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that many of these appeals that have gone to the Appeal Tribunal have been turned down, thereby inflicting great hardship on the widows, particularly when the doctor's certificate of death certifies that the disease was contracted during military service?Mr. WATERSON
: Not when prompted by the Government?Mr. WATERSON
2108: I think it desirable to correct the statement of the right hon. Baronet who has just sat down with regard to the Umpire's decision. The machinery of the Act is designed to keep the whole question of these decisions out of the hands of the Minister. Whether rightly or wrongly, the view taken at the time when the earlier Act was passed was that these questions of detail were judicial matters which could best be put in the hands of a person in a judicial position. The Umpire has a great many cases referred to him, and they are all test cases. Decisions are given, and they become in effect a series of decisions on important points. It is true that these decisions may not be binding in law, but
2108The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of LABOUR (Sir Montague Barlow)
: My right hon. Friend has asked me to reply to this question and at the same time I will reply to Question number 114. I would refer the hon. Members to the replies already given to which there is nothing to add.Sir A. WILLIAMSON (Parliamentary Secretary, War Office)
: If the hon. Member will put down a question, I will ascertain.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: One registration is provided for under the Motor Car Act, but not the registration required by the War Office. The whole matter is receiving consideration, as I have already informed the House.Sir A. WILLIAMSON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that a great many businesses are using motor cars for the purpose of economy?Mr. HAILW00D
: The press of work at the Mint arises from the demand for copper coin and for War medals, as well as from the recoinage of silver. Additional difficulty arises from the fact that steel of the quality required for dies seems to be less easy to procure. I think it is very desirable that the re-coinage, which will in any case take several years, should proceed expeditiously.The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER (Mr. Chamberlain)
: I hope that the right hon. Gentleman will repeat himself.Mr. A. HOPKINSON
: I did not say doles, I said Poor Law relief.Mr. HOPKINSON
: I think the fallacy of what the right hon. Gentleman has just said lies in this, that he starts, like the Labour Minister, from the supposition that the insured person is paying the premiums and is therefore entitled to the benefits quite apart from any conditions of this sort. If the insured person were paying all the benefits that argument would be perfectly valid, but actually other people are paying a very considerable proportion of these premiums and therefore the benefit under the Insurance Act is exactly analogous to Poor Law relief. It is compelling the majority of the people of this country to supply benefits to those who have fallen into misfortune by Act of Parliament, which is exactly analogous to Poor Law relief. In questions of Poor Law relief consideration is taken of the family income invariably, and therefore, what the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Banbury) has submitted is a perfectly fair and just argument and probably much more correct than what the Labour Minister or the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Clynes) said. In cases like this of forcible charity, that is of Poor Law relief and nothing else, it is quite logical and quite justifiable to take into consideration the family income, and, therefore, to my mind, the arguments, both of the Labour Minister himself and the right hon. Gentleman, fall to the ground entirely.Mr. A. HOPKINSON
: That is all I expect next week.Mr. B0NAR LAW
: That question has often been raised, but I think it has always been disapproved by the House. In addition, I do not see how it is possible for Members who are on Committees, or those who have definite work to do in the morning, to attend the House at 12 noon.Mr. BONAR LAW
: The Motion I propose to move to-morrow is simply to assist getting the business done, and I do not make any complaint as to the discussion which has taken place to date. I believe myself that the House will find the suspension of the Eleven o'clock Rule will enable them, by sitting an hour longer occasionally, to save half a day's discussion. With regard to to-morrow, I think it is only right that notice should be given of such a change, and I do not propose that it should take effect to-morrow.Mr. B0NAR LAW
: On Monday-Supplementary Estimates, beginning with Irish Supplementaries, in the following order: Constabulary, Chief Secretary's salary, Prisons, etc.Mr. B0NAR LAW
: Does my hon. and gallant Friend mean that beer is to be the same price as in 1215?Mr. BONAR LAW
: I have not had an opportunity of verifying my hon. Friend's quotation, but in any case I am advised that there is later legislation. An opportunity of considering this subject will arise in connection with the Bill, introduced by the hon. and gallant Member for Barkston Ash, which is now before the House.Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
35.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware that printing is the one nourishing trade under communism in Russia; and what steps he proposes to take to prevent the dumping of plays and novels by popular British authors which have paid no royalties to the writers?Commander BELLAIRS
36.  asked the Prime Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the announcement in the Bolshevist Press in Russia that the Soviet Government has now abolished the rights to all private ownership in books; and whether he has any information as to why this paricular branch of private enterprise was hitherto spared.Commander BELLAIRS
: In the event of the Foreign Office finding out that the information published in the Bolshevist newspapers is correct that they have suppressed the rights of private ownership in books, will the Government look after the interests of Comrade Bernard Shaw?Commander BELLAIRS
: His Majesty's Government have no information about this particular decree of the Soviet Government.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
: Why were you briefed, you traitor?Mr. STANTON
: By whom were you briefed?Mr. STANTON
: We are never doing anything else. We live with it.Mr. IRVING
: Yes. I propose to make a statement after questions.The PRIME MINISTER
: My right hon. Friend has already started. He is accompanied by six or seven officials from Middle East Department, Financial Branch of the War Office and Air Ministry. He does not expect to meet any Arab leaders. He hopes to remain only about ten days in Egypt and a few days in Palestine, and then to return to lay proposals before the Cabinet. The policy of the Government will then be declared to the House after Easter. The expenses will be regulated according to the usual scale for such missions.The PRIME MINISTER
: In the view of His Majesty's Government, ample safeguards have been taken by the Allies in the Treaty of Versailles and by provision of Article 213 of the Treaty.The PRIME MINISTER
: With regard to the first part of the question, I would refer my hon. and gallant Friend to previous replies upon this subject. The estimated strength of the German Army at the date of the Armistice was 5,000,000; its present strength is approximately 100,000, and the number of sailors disbanded is about 156,000.The PRIME MINISTER
: As the answer to this question is long and detailed I will, with the permission of the House, circulate it in the OFFICIAL REPORT. It will not, therefore, be necessary to lay a paper upon the Table, as my hon. Friend suggests.The PRIME MINISTER
: I only know the decision of the Cabinet. Perhaps no reply had been received from the Government of India. I was not aware of that.The PRIME MINISTER
: No information on this subject has been received beyond what has appeared in the public Press.The PRIME MINISTER
: It is under the Colonial Office.The PRIME MINISTER
: I would refer my hon. and gallant Friend to the answer given on Monday last to a question by my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Stafford.The PRIME MINISTER
(c) A line of Custom houses to be temporarily established on the Rhine and at the boundary of the Têtes de Ponts occupied by the Allied troops; the tariff to be levied on this line, both on the entry and export of goods, to be determined by the Allied High Commission of the Rhine territory in conformity with the instructions of the Allied Governments.b(ba(3) (a
(c) A line of Custom houses to be temporarily established on the Rhine and at the boundary of the Têtes de Ponts occupied by the Allied troops; the tariff to be levied on this line, both on the entry and export of goods, to be determined by the Allied High Commission of the Rhine territory in conformity with the instructions of the Allied Governments.b(ba(3) (a2017(That is in respect of goods purchased either in this country or in any other Allied country from Germany.)(2) To obtain powers from their respective Parliaments requiring their nationals to pay a certain proportion of all payments due to Germany on German goods to their several Governments, such proportion to be retained on account of reparations.(1) To occupy the towns of Duisburg, Ruhrort, and Düsseldorf, on the right bank of the Rhine.
(2) To obtain powers from their respective Parliaments requiring their nationals to pay a certain proportion of all payments due to Germany on German goods to their several Governments, such proportion to be retained on account of reparations.(1) To occupy the towns of Duisburg, Ruhrort, and Düsseldorf, on the right bank of the Rhine.: The Allied delegations were unanimously of opinion that Dr. Simons' proposals did not afford any basis for examination or discussion, and that they fell so far short of the German obligations under the Treaty as to constitute a mockery of its provisions.(c) A line of Custom houses to be temporarily established on the Rhine and at the boundary of the Têtes de Ponts occupied by the Allied troops; the tariff to be levied on this line, both on the entry and export of goods, to be determined by the Allied High Commission of the Rhine territory in conformity with the instructions of the Allied Governments.b(ba(3) (a
(c) A line of Custom houses to be temporarily established on the Rhine and at the boundary of the Têtes de Ponts occupied by the Allied troops; the tariff to be levied on this line, both on the entry and export of goods, to be determined by the Allied High Commission of the Rhine territory in conformity with the instructions of the Allied Governments.b(ba(3) (a2017(That is in respect of goods purchased either in this country or in any other Allied country from Germany.)(2) To obtain powers from their respective Parliaments requiring their nationals to pay a certain proportion of all payments due to Germany on German goods to their several Governments, such proportion to be retained on account of reparations.(1) To occupy the towns of Duisburg, Ruhrort, and Düsseldorf, on the right bank of the Rhine.
(2) To obtain powers from their respective Parliaments requiring their nationals to pay a certain proportion of all payments due to Germany on German goods to their several Governments, such proportion to be retained on account of reparations.(1) To occupy the towns of Duisburg, Ruhrort, and Düsseldorf, on the right bank of the Rhine.The PRIME MINISTER
: I have often stated that the demands made on Germany must be limited by her capacity to pay. The proposals of Dr. von Simons fall, in our judgment, far short, lamentably short, and I should say absurdly short of Germany's capacity to pay. She has not, as I have pointed out in the statement which will probably be in the Press to-morrow, taxed herself up to the limit of the taxation of France and Great Britain, and we cannot possibly allow the burdens of the victors to be heavier than those of the vanquished.The PRIME MINISTER
: I can add nothing to the reply which was given yesterday by my right hon. Friend the Leader of the House on this subject to a Private Notice Question by my hon. Friend the Member for Nottingham East.The PRIME MINISTER
: Really it is an insult to the Government of South Africa to suggest that there is any comparison between men who fought openly in the field and men who patrol the streets as civilians under the protection of the law and turn round and shoot their guardians.The PRIME MINISTER
1996: I do not know the particular declaration to which the Noble Lord refers. If he means the
1996The PRIME MINISTER
: Certainly, and I stated so in the statement which I made in the House before separating. We should be perfectly willing to give every facility for the elected representatives of the Irish people to meet in order to make any proposals to the Government, or to arrange a deputation to meet the Government, and again it is no fault of ours that that has not been done.The PRIME MINISTER
: No. That was in reference to the question of a truce. In the matter of a truce we regard the laying down of arms as essential. It is a totally different matter when it is a question of conferring with the elected representatives of the Irish people who have been elected to this House by constitutional means at the last General Election.The PRIME MINISTER
: My hon. Friend knows the statement which I made in that respect. There are certain people, whose names I have promised to give, whom we cannot allow to meet. They are suspected on good grounds of having taken part directly in murder. We could not possibly assent to their meeting. There is no distinction between Irish Members and any other Members in this respect. Any Member reasonably suspected of crime of that character would be liable to arrest. With the exception of those men—and they are very few—we would certainly give every facility for their meeting.The PRIME MINISTER
: The answer to both parts of the question is in the negative.The PRIME MINISTER
: The answer will be circulated. There certainly is no public money involved.The PRIME MINISTER
: The reply to each of the three parts of the question is in the negative. My right hon. Friend the Home Secretary is dealing with the matter in more detail in reply to the other question on the subject which the hon. Member has put down.The PRIME MINISTER
2008: With regard to the first part of the question, I am informed that only the approved trade union building rates obtain at the
2008The PRIME MINISTER
: I am not prepared to adopt my hon. Friend's suggestion. The Government are fully alive to the importance of this matter and are giving full consideration to it.The PRIME MINISTER
: I agree it is a very urgent question, and when I was Chancellor of the Exchequer there was a Debate on the Address on it and two or three Debates in the course of the Session. But I think the hon. Member is wrong in saying that was the last enquiry. I appointed a Select Committee I think it was—a very able body of men. That could not have been 20 years ago. I agree that it has always been urgent, and it is much more urgent now becuse of the very heavy burden of the rates.The PRIME MINISTER
: I have always stated that I should be perfectly ready to confer with the responsible Irish leaders upon that basis. It is no fault of ours that a conference has not taken place.The PRIME MINISTER
: I have repeatedly expressed my readiness to confer on the problem of Irish Government with any person or body of persons who can legitimately claim a right to speak on behalf of the Irish people.The PRIME MINISTER
: That is not in a martial law area. There are other parts of Ireland that are not under martial law.The PRIME MINISTER
1994: That is undoubtedly so, and the same thing applies now, though not quite in the same proportion. Anyone who looks at the figures will realise that we cannot possibly allow murder to go unpunished. The only suggestion my hon. Friend put forward was that there should be an appeal, but he now goes very much further, and practically suggests that we should not punish the murderer at all. That, I think, is something which will not commend itself to his more mature reflection. With regard to finding any other methods of pacification I should be only too glad to do so. There is another question put by the Noble Lord above the Gangway (Lord H. Cavendish-Bentinck) which I
1994The PRIME MINISTER
1995: My right hon. Friend is quite wrong. I never said that when martial law was proclaimed it would require further authority from this House. If he will only refer to the statement which I made on the Friday, when I announced martial law, he will see that I stated most distinctly that unless deadly weapons were surrendered by a certain date, every man found in possession of them would have the death penalty inflicted. James Allen had in his possession not only a revolver, but three dumdum bullets. What did he have those bullets for? If murder is to be stopped in Ireland, very exemplary punishment must be inflicted upon those who, in defiance of an order of the Government,
1995The PRIME MINISTER
: No evidence! What more evidence do you want than the fact that a man, after an order has been given that weapons must be surrendered, had in his possession a revolver and three dum-dum bullets?The PRIME MINISTER
: I do not accept that statement.The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
: The Irish policy of the Government was constantly under consideration by the Government during the time named in the question, and has been frequently explained in Debate in this House.The PRIME MINISTER
: Statements have been made in this House repeatedly by the Leader of the House, the Chief Secretary and myself as to the policy of the Government and by those we stand.The PRIME MINISTER
: I can add nothing to what I have said.The PRIME MINISTER
1993: We considered very carefully before, we ever set
1993The PRIME MINISTER
49.  asked the Lord Privy Seal if he is aware that by Magna Charta it was conceded to all free men of this realm that there be one measure of wine throughout the whole realm, and one measure of beer, and one measure of corn, and that it should be so regarding weights as regarding measures; whether he is aware that a great diversity of measures is in use for corn whereby many free men of the realm are often sorely perplexed and greatly hindered in their business; and whether the Government will take steps to ensure to the free men of the realm this ancient right of one measure for corn to which they are entitled under Magna Charta?Mr. DENNIS HERBERT
: May I ask the Leader of the House what business he proposes to take next week?Sir D. MACLEAN
: May I ask whether, in regard to the suspension of the Eleven o'clock Rule, the right hon. Gentleman has any ground of complaint in regard to the Opposition, or any other Members of this House, as to undue discussion of the financial proposals before the House, and if this proposal comes on to-morrow and is carried, will he undertake not to proceed to-morrow beyond five o'clock, as a very large number of Members have made arrangements for the week-end, and I can assure him, as we have done in the past, that there will be no unnecessary discussion on anything proposed.Sir D. MACLEAN
: Does the Prime Minister recollect that when the Restoration of Order in Ireland Bill was passing through this House he stated that the infliction of the death penalty would require some further authority from this House, and, secondly, in such a case as that of the man James Allen, who was shot for being in possession of a revolver and a military book, where there is no evidence of complicity to murder but simply the possession of arms—[HON. MEMBERS: "Oh!"] May I be allowed to put my question?Sir D. MACLEAN
: Hon. Members opposite seem to resent the putting of a most serious question. [HON. MEMBERS: "Speech."] I will repeat the question: Whether the Prime Minister recollects that when the Restoration of Order in Ireland Bill was going through this House, he stated that the infliction of the death penalty would require further authority from this House, and, in the second place, in such a case as that of the man James Allen, who was shot the other day for being in possession of a revolver and a military book, whether he will see that there is an appeal allowed to the highest military authority from the Court which passes the death sentence?Sir D. MACLEAN
: In Sub-head (A)."Sir D. MACLEAN
: There were at least two questions of public interest which I hope my right hon. Friend will answer.Sir D. MACLEAN
quâ: My right hon. Friend the Member for the City of London (Sir F. Banbury) has withdrawn his opposition to this Vote, as far as the broker is concerned, and that was due probably to the operation of that human kindness of which he is so distinguished an exponent, for he was dealing with what is called a "comrade in arms" in the City, and, naturally, he did not feel inclined to do anything against a gentleman with whom no doubt he has had close business relations in the past. But I would point this out to the right hon. Gentleman, that he and the Secretary to the Treasury both agree that quâSir D. MACLEAN
"Amount of fees expected to be received by the Pensions Computation Board in excess of the amount anticipated at the date of presentation of the original Estimate.""A further sum of £6,100 has been provided in the Supplementary Votes for War Bonus (H.C. 148 & 219) in respect of charges falling on this Vote."2128: The post of Government broker is not unlike the position of a great physician or surgeon at one of our hospitals. The work is undertaken
"Amount of fees expected to be received by the Pensions Computation Board in excess of the amount anticipated at the date of presentation of the original Estimate.""A further sum of £6,100 has been provided in the Supplementary Votes for War Bonus (H.C. 148 & 219) in respect of charges falling on this Vote."2128Sir D. MACLEAN
: I hope that my right hon. Friend in the re-organisation of the Estimates will take into consideration the views that have been expressed in all parts of the Committee on this question of Appropriations-in-Aid.Sir D. MACLEAN
2130: There was another point on which I wanted my right hon. Friend to give us some information. He stated that the reasons which mainly moved the Treasury to the increase of the Comptroller-General's salary were, firstly, the special qualifications of the post, under the new and exacting conditions, and, secondly, that it had been only fair to promise him that, when he left the Treasury, he should not suffer any financial loss during the remaining portion of his official career. Those, I agree, were reasons which, under pre-War conditions, would find almost general support, but we are not now in pre-War conditions. The conditions under which we are living to-day demand from us all the most exacting economy—certainly that is so in my own case—and the Treasury ought to set a good example to the private citizen. Then there is another point upon which I should like further information. As I understand it, the rule is that, when the head of a Department has his salary raised, proportionate increases are granted to his subordinates who are in what I
2130Sir D. MACLEAN
: What the hon. Member is asking, and what I wish to ask, is how much bonus is this gentleman receiving? If my hon. Friend cannot tell me, that is an end of the matter, but if he can, the Committee would like to know.Sir D. MACLEAN
: I beg to move "that the Vote be reduced by £20,000."Sir D. MACLEAN
: I should like to know whether the whole of this increase of £70,000 is for men who received no share whatever of the war bonus.Sir D. MACLEAN
: The difference between £26,000 and £70,000, namely, £44,000, therefore goes to officials who received two plums in the course of the present year from two separate Supplementary Estimates. My right hon. Friend comes to us to-day and asks us to grant to these an extra £26,000. That is four increases. First of all, last year compared with 1919–20, then the two increases given in these supplementary bonus gifts, and now this last one. What justification is there for it? The cost of living, we are delighted to know, is declining, and whatever may be said for those who have not received their share of the bonus does not apply to those who have.Sir D. MACLEAN
"Provision for increased technical and clerical staff for work in connection with the erection of houses by the Office of Works as agents for various local authorities proceeding with housing schemes approved by the Ministry of Health.": But those who are coming in as new officials are started on this elevated basis. On this Vote we cannot go into the general policy of my right hon. Friend's Department on the question of building houses, but the issue here is whether these officials are sufficiently paid or not. Passing from that, I would like to draw the attention of the Committee to Sub-head A:
"Provision for increased technical and clerical staff for work in connection with the erection of houses by the Office of Works as agents for various local authorities proceeding with housing schemes approved by the Ministry of Health."Sir D. MACLEAN
21422141"Additional sum required to meet the increased cost of railway fares, and subsistence allowances, and for travelling in connection with the erection of houses for local authorities.": Here is some revelation, under Sub-head A, of what it is going to cost. Now I come to Sub-head B, "Travelling Expenses," and I think I must read that to the Committee again. It says:
21422141"Additional sum required to meet the increased cost of railway fares, and subsistence allowances, and for travelling in connection with the erection of houses for local authorities."Sir D. MACLEAN
: He would save first-class railway travelling from London, at any rate.Sir D. MACLEAN
: That depends on what he has done.Mr. SHORTT
: I have been asked to reply to this question and question No. 53. Mr. McGrath was arrested at 182, Shaftesbury Avenue to give effect to an Order for his internment in Ireland issued under No. 14B of the Regulations made under the Restoration of Order in Ireland Act. He did not ask to communicate with his wife, but the police did, in fact, inform her of his arrest and whereabouts. He was not refused permission to consult his solicitor, but he did not ask to see him until 7 p.m., and it was not found possible to arrange an interview before McGrath's departure for Ireland early the next day. The solicitor was, however, offered and accepted an interview at police headquarters, where he was given a copy of the Internment Order and other particulars. Mr. McGrath is interned as a person who is suspected of acting, having acted or being about to act in a manner prejudicial to the restoration and maintenance of order in Ireland, and is at present in Ballykinlar internment camp.The SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Mr. Shortt)
: That has all been done.Mr. SHORTT
: The Prime Minister has asked me to reply to this question. I would refer the hon. and gallant Member to the answers which I gave on Tuesday on this subject.Mr. SHORTT
20832082: I desire to say one word as to the responsibility of the Government in the matter. The hon. Member for Middlesbrough said that if the Amendment were accepted it would introduce new conditions. Unfortunately there are new conditions to-day which we have to face. We are in the new condition of being a poor country instead of a rich one and having an unprecedented situation throughout the land. The
20832082Mr. PRETYMAN
: I want to carry the question which I asked the right hon. Gentleman a little further upon that definite particular point. When the right hon. Gentleman was answering me, he used the expression that when the matter was at all in doubt then the manager would suspend. Is that perfectly clear? It makes a very considerable difference. If the manager is simply to use his own judgment, and if he gives a lax decision, and there is no appeal against that decision, it would be almost necessary for us to divide on the Lords Amendment. What we want is fair play. The right hon. Gentleman told me, in answer to my question, quite frankly—and it was quite obvious he was right—that it was almost impossible to devise any machinery by which any person could have the right, when an official gives a decision considered to be lax, to call that decision into question. This is bad from all points of view, because we see that the only action that can be taken by people who think that lax decisions are given is general criticism and letters to the Press, which bring the whole system into disrepute. If my right hon. Friend will make it perfectly clear that where there is any doubt the matter will be put in suspense or refused, and if he will insist upon it going before a tribunal and coming to an umpire, who will only grant a claim where in his opinion—it must be his opinion, of course—there is no doubt whatever that the claimant has not been offered work which is in any way suitable, then we shall be able to accept the situation. If not I shall feel it my duty to Divide the House, because we shall have no sufficient safeguard, by leaving the words as they are, and leaving their interpretation to an officer who may be too lax—and there have been such instances—without any appeal to the Minister.Mr. PRETYMAN
: That satisfies me.Mr. PRETYMAN
2104locus standi: Is it the case that if a decision is given by a manager, and it is regarded as a harsh decision, there is an appeal, but if there is a decision which I might call a lax decision, as to which there is some complaint—a decision that unemployment pay can be drawn although many people would think it ought not to be drawn—is there anybody who has a 2104locus standiMr. PRETYMAN
11.  asked the Chief Secretary how many inquests have been held on non-combatant men, women, and children during the last three months; and how many of the deaths have been attributed to forces of the Crown?Mr. BRIANT
: Did the hon. and gallant Gentleman support me when I wished to differentiate in the incidence of the Income Tax, which compels a man and wife to join their incomes together?Sir F. BANBURY
20862085: Before the House decides to disagree with this Amendment, I should like to say one or two words in support of it. May I point out to my hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Bartley Denniss) that we did amend the Act of 1911 by the Act passed in October, 1920, and we again amended it last December. We are now amending it yet again. If it is possible to amend it three times in certain directions, it certainly is possible to amend it in other directions. I do not think my hon. Friend can say that it can be amended in one direction and in one direction only. I regret very much, for the reasons, more or less, which I gave before, that the Government do not accept this Amendment. Here is a person whose wife or husband, resident in the same house, is in receipt of an income of 40s. a week. Why on earth should they receive a further donation? Surely the whole object of this Bill was to save people from starvation; it was not intended to give them a kind of pension and make life easy for them. If they are in receipt of an income, from no matter what source, amounting to 40s. a week, how can it be contended when it is in the interest of the country as a whole, or of the workers, that they should be able to claim an additional sum of 20s.? That 20s. is made up not only from their own contributions, but from two other sources, namely, the contributions from the employer and the contributions from the State. My experience, as far as regards the workpeople in the two or three indus-
20862085Sir F. BANBURY
: May I point out to the hon. Member that never in my life have I advocated the breaking of a contract. Any contract made by the workman is just as sacred as a contract made by anybody else.Sir F. BANBURY
: I took the figure of 40s. because that has been very often used for certain purposes by hon. Members opposite, but it might have been 50s. or even £5 or even, what the miners get, £700 a year. It would be all the same thing.Sir F. BANBURY
: May I say that it must not be forgotten that this will lead to a very large increase in the number of people receiving this out-of-work donation and will eventually cause the fund to become bankrupt.Sir F. BANBURY
: I said the wages were 40s. a week, not the benefit.Sir F. BANBURY
2067: I remember one or two occasions when the House has waived its privilege, notwithstanding that the Lords had put in an Amendment which is a privileged Amendment. This House has consented to accept such an Amend-
2067Sir F. BANBURY
2068: Quite so, and the right hon. Gentleman went on to say that it would not be fair to put in such conditions as are proposed in the Amendment. At first I thought there was something in that argument, but on thinking it over I came to the conclusion that with all due deference to the right hon. Gentleman there was really nothing in it at all. The right hon. Gentleman himself said that, in the event of a man being out of employment, and being offered sitable employment and declining such employment, he could not obtain benefit. Therefore, the right hon. Gentleman himself has put in conditions, and if those conditions have once been put in the argument of the right hon. Gentleman, that it is a right which cannot be denied to the people who had subscribed, falls to the ground.2068Sir F. BANBURY
: Or would have obtained?Sir F. BANBURY
2069: Then, as I understand it, there is a little safeguard, but
2069Sir F. BANBURY
: May I put it to you, Mr. Speaker, whether a privilege Amendment is out of order if that Amendment does not increase the charge?Sir F. BANBURY
: I want to get this quite clear, because it may be necessary for us to divide in favour of the Lords Amendment on this point. The right hon. Gentleman has read out to us certain instructions which have been given by an Umpire in regard to out-of-work donation.Sir F. BANBURY
: He says those decisions would apply to this particular Act. How is that? It is not in the Act. Is it because he has the power under Regulations to apply those decisions?Sir F. BANBURY
: Then let the House see what may happen. These decisions, which seem to me to be very reasonable, are not in the Act.Sir F. BANBURY
: Then put this Amendment in. Otherwise, supposing the right hon. Gentleman opposite succeeds him, he will apply different decisions.Sir F. BANBURY
: I beg to move, "That Item A (Salaries, Wages, and Allowances) be reduced by £550."Sir F. BANBURY
: I am afraid I have not made myself clear. I understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that these very decisions which he read out would go a long way towards meeting this Amendment.Sir F. BANBURY
: I understood that there was no necessity for this particular Amendment because of what the right hon. Gentleman has just said. If that is so, I point out that if there is a new Labour Minister, the whole thing is changed, or may be changed. The result of not putting in an Amendment of this sort is that anything which may be done in the right direction by the present Minister may be changed if another Minister comes into office. Under these circumstances, I hope the House will divide in favour of the Lords Amendment.Sir F. BANBURY
2147: The hon. Member for Spen Valley said it was quite possible that these various items were quite excessive, but he did not care about that, because he was in favour of the programme which these items were to carry out. The hon. Member said the country would save money because he was sure these schemes would cost less than if they had been done by private enterprise. That is a very doubtful statement, because, as the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down stated, very few of these houses have been completed. We will admit that a few have been completed,
2147Sir F. BANBURY
: Now I feel sertain that the hon. Member for Spen Valley will vote for the reduction, because he is looking forward to new houses. We know now that out of this £10,000 there is only £4,000 going to new services and therefore, he will be consistent and will vote against the other £6,000, which is not being spent upon the object so dear to the hon. Member's heart. I want to know what the other £26,000 is going to be spent upon. Is there going to be any more voyages to Egypt or to the Pyramids?Sir F. BANBURY
2149: Nothing of the sort. An hon. Member opposite said that railway fares have not doubled. It is true that they have not doubled last year, although they increased 25 per cent. last year, but the increase has been 75 per cent. altogether. How is it that the right hon Gentleman's Department spends £26,000 on travelling round the country? The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean) alluded to an additional sum which is required for these increased rates of pay of the temporary technical staff owing to the increased cost of living. What does this staff cost? It seems to be going to get £26,000 plus an unknown sum owing to the increased cost of living. I was under the impression that a Government Department regulated its statistics to show what the cost of living was. I do not think they show it, but they purport to. Now the cost of living is coming down, so what under the circumstances is the necessity of adding £26,000 to this temporary staff in addition to a sum which they have been receiving before? What are this temporary technical staff? The Member for Peebles alluded to discussions which we had last Friday in which the right hon. Gentleman informed us that it was necessary to spend £5,000 on a building in order to put in a technical staff to carry out investigations so that the new houses they were going to build were not going to fall down in ten years.2149Sir F. BANBURY
: So that they do not tumble down in ten years.Sir F. BANBURY
: The addition is £500 a year.Sir F. BANBURY
: No, I think not.Sir F. BANBURY
: That is not so, then. I understood from my hon. Friend that owing to Sir Thomas Heath's age he would not be very long in the service, that he was near 60, or something like that. Personally, I should think that the increase to the broker was necessary. There is more work to do, and the pay is small, but I do not see any necessity for the increase to the Controller-General from £2,000 to £2,500.Sir F. BANBURY
2126: The broker has to find a very considerable sum for clerical assistance, and I should be inclined to think that instead of there being any profit there might be a loss. It has been with them for eighty or ninety years, and they have always taken an extraordinary low price, and I suppose they do not like to break the connection that has lasted for so long. I really do not see what is the necessity, on this question of £2,500, for picking out a particularly expert civil servant and putting him in this position. He has nothing very much to do; it is merely ordinary routine work. He has not got any very great decisions to come to, and he is assisted by a Committee of very eminent bankers and others in the City who work for nothing. If the Controller-General is assisted by some of the most eminent bankers and financiers in the City, what on earth is the necessity for appointing a super-man and losing
2126Sir F. BANBURY
: May I say in response to what my Noble Friend has said that with regard to the brokerage I must say my right hon. Friend the Financial Secretary is right. I do not think the Committee understands what really occurs. The brokers receive no commission at all. I did not quite gather the figures which my right hon. Friend mentioned, but I should say that if he had received a half brokerage, not full brokerage, the brokerage would amount to something like £20,000 a year, if not more, and that is to be remembered when you are considering the position as to whether or not he is to be paid £1,500 or £2,000. It must be remembered that the broker has to pay expenses out of this sum, and there are very considerable clerical expenses arising.Sir F. BANBURY
: Seventy-five per cent. altogether.Sir F. BANBURY
: The hon. Member has made a statement which is quite inaccurate. I never pleaded for the £21,000,000. The Vote was brought in by the Government, and it was brought in in order to carry out a bargain they had made. The Government took over the property of the railway companies, and told them how to run the railways and how much to pay the men. It did not matter to us in the least.Sir F. BANBURY
2152: The hon. Member for Spen Valley (Mr. Myers), if I understood him correctly, supported this Vote on two grounds, first, because it was for the provision of houses—for the working-classes chiefly, and, secondly, because these houses would be more cheaply built in this way than they would be by private enterprise. What are the facts? I happen to have interested myself in this matter, and it so happens I asked the right hon. Gentleman one or two questions regarding the number of houses during the last few days, and by accident
2152Mr. G. BALFOUR
: Am I right in saying that this item of £4,000 for travelling expenses is an additional sum entirely for housing for the current year? There are 116 houses completed. Is that a reasonable travelling allowance for the houses completed during the current financial year?Mr. G. BALFOUR
: The whole difficulty which the right hon. Gentleman has dealt with is what is suitable employment. The right hon. Gentleman has pointed out that it might be necessary to employ a great many more inspectors, and if that were necessary to ensure that no injustice was done, of course, we should all agree. [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh!"] We must either agree to the additional inspectors or that these words lead to such results that injustice would be done, and I suggest that the Amendment proposed is a reasonable standard by which to judge whether a man should take a job or be considered an unemployed person. Surely it is wide enough. No man would object to be judged by that standard, and it would overcome all the difficulty of determining what is or what is not suitable employment. If the House divide upon it, I shall certainly support the Lords Amendment.Mr. G. BALFOUR
: My question is, how long will it take to find out whether or not the work is suitable?Mr. BALFOUR
: But how long will it take to find out whether the work is suitable or unsuitable?Mr. G. BALFOUR
: I should like to ask you, Mr. Speaker, if the same ruling you have given, applies to the other Lords Amendment on the Paper substituting the words "employment on reasonable terms for which he is physically and otherwise fit."Mr. G. BALFOUR
2072: I understand that unless we resolve to waive the question of privilege we can come to no other determination other than that of rejecting the Amendment. In my view the Lords have taken a right and proper action to assist in the solution in the present pressing unemployment problem. It is owing to the fact that at the present moment the unemployment benefit, added to that received from trade unions that probably such a sum of money is being received that we find a great many men, particularly young men from 18 to 22, have a sufficient sum not only for maintenance but for pleasure, and so long as that condition of things con-
2072Mr. BALFOUR
2131: I have listened to a good many Debates in the last fortnight, and the great cry in the House has been for reductions in wages. We have had a Debate on unemployment, and we have been told that heavy taxation is one of the causes of unemployment. This may be a very eminent civil servant—he may have all the abilities that are necessary, and every honour and dignity, but he is already in receipt of an income of £38 a week, and we have the cool proposal that his salary should be increased by £10 per week. This proposal is made at a time when we have a million men unemployed. If it is good economy to reduce wages, this economy must be general in its application. I think there is a limit to the reduction of wages, and there should also be a limit to the increase of salaries. There can really be no personal necessity for an increase of this servant's salary,
2131Mr. G. BARKER
: These Appeal Tribunals consist of one doctor, one lawyer and an ex-service man.Colonel GIBBS
: The Appeal Tribunals have heard and decided 1,978 appeals lodged by widows against decisions by the Ministry that the disease from which the husband died was not contracted in or aggravated by his service. Of those appeals, 523 were allowed and 1,253 rejected. The decisions of the Tribunals are declared by the War Pensions (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1919, to be final.Colonel GIBBS
: I have to refer my hon. and gallant Friend to the answer which my right hon. Friend gave to the hon. Member for Smethwick on the 28th February, of which I am sending him a copy. The supplementary allowances which my hon. and gallant Friend has in mind are no doubt those made by the Special Grants Committee, which are intended to provide for exceptional cases of hardship.Colonel GIBBS
: The answer is in the affirmative. The constitution of the Tribunals is regulated by Statute, which provides that in such cases one of the members of the Tribunal shall be a disabled ex-service man.Colonel GIBBS
: I am not aware of any grounds for dissatisfaction with the present system under which pensions are awarded in accordance with the amount of disablement due to service, the man having the right of appeal to a Medical Appeal Board on the question of assessment and to an independent tribunal on the question of attributability.Colonel GIBBS
: I will forward the suggestion to the proper quarter.Colonel GIBBS
: My right hon. Friend the Minister of Pensions (Mr. Macpherson) is not able to be here to-day and has asked me to reply to his questions.Colonel GIBBS
: The facts are substantially as stated in the first part of the question. The matter is at present under consideration.Colonel GIBBS
: I must ask the hon. Member to put any question down.Colonel GIBBS
: Special rates of pension are payable under the warrant in respect of all motherless children, whether in the care of relatives or of strangers. Under the War Pensions (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1918, children of deceased soldiers who are suffering from neglect are placed under the care of the Minister, and in order that he may be able to give them the medical or other special attention that they need, and at the same time secure suitable foster-parents for them, certain supplementary grants are made available for their benefit under regulations administered by the Special Grants Committee. It is not possible to extend these regulations to motherless children generally, for whom the special rates of pension payable under the warrant are considered to be adequate.Colonel GIBBS
: These decisions are to be published to give the opinions of certain qualified Umpires in order to help others in arriving at a decision, but they are in no way bound to accept these decisions?Mr. FRANCE
: We have had the illustration of the watchmaker who is asked to take up heavy manual work in a shipyard, and the principal reason given why that work would not be suitable was that the watchmaker would not be physically fit to undertake it and probably would not be physically fit, in another sense, to return to his own work after having undertaken it. I hold no brief for the Lords Amendment, but there is in fact something to be said for these words "physical suitability." It is on that point that the House wants to be quite sure. We want to be certain that there are not social gradations to be considered in the matter, which would prevent some people from doing work they disliked doing. The right hon. Gentleman said that these rules were the rules adopted under the old system of unemployment benefit or dole, against which I have heard stronger words used by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Clynes) than by any other Member of the House. We are, therefore, agreed that they may have harmful effects Is it certain that there will be the same interpretation put upon these rules under a system for which there is a contribution made by the insured person, or may not the argument be used by the manager that because the man or woman contributes he or she is in a different position and ought to have more consideration? Would not such a man or woman, perhaps, be allowed to make a choice which it is not in the interests of the country that he or she should make?Mr. FRANCE
: I assume that Members in all sections of the House are anxious that under this scheme there is no abuse of the Act, no power given to secure some other and different purpose from that which we have in view. Where does the power rest with regard to the decision of "suitability"? The right hon. Gentleman gave us an example. The manager is to decide the point of suitability, but under certain varying conditions, or according as the Act is amended, the Committee is to be brought in. Does the Committee come in and deal with cases except under appeal or only when an appeal is made? Does the first decision come from the manager?Mr. FRANCE
: Then there may be different decisions given throughout the country according to the opinions of the various managers?Mr. FRANCE
: Will the Government consider the advisability of getting a register of these cars and commandeering them when they are wanted, instead of going to the whole expense of a Government subsidy?Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
38.  asked the Prime Minister whether it has now been decided to proceed no further with the War Office scheme of subsidising motor lorries in the event of their being required for purposes of war?Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
39.  asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware that practically all agricultural societies and organisations are opposed to the proposed continuance of the Daylight Saving Act for this year; and whether, even if he cannot consider the abolition of the Act, he will favourably consider a proposal to shorten its operation to the period frm 1st May to 31st August?Major WHELER
: These allegations refer to the Martial Law area. I have called for but have not yet received a report with reference to them. I will furnish the hon. Member with the desired information as soon as I am in a position to do so.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: This question appeared in the paper yesterday, and I have directed immediate inquiry to be made into this matter.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I do not think I can add anything usefully to what I have already said.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: It is the case that Dermot O'Sullivan with four other civilians have been sentenced to death by a general court-martial. As regards the remainder of the question, I can only repeat what I have already stated in reply to similar questions put by hon. Members in other recent cases, that I must decline to discuss in this House either the evidence on which the court based their finding, or the advice which it may be my duty to tender to the Lord Lieutenant. The House may be assured that every relevant consideration will be carefully weighed in this, as in every other case, before a final decision is taken.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I see no reason for making an exception in this case.Sir H. GREENWOOD
1999: Yes, Sir. It is, I believe, a fact that Mr. Healy has refused to accept the procedure which had beein suggested in this case. County-Inspector King who, the House will remember, was badly wounded in the foot on the occasion of the brutal murder of his wife at Mallow, is at present in Scotland under medical care. It is thought probable that he will have to undergo an operation. I have specially sent an officer to interview him and to arrange for his attendance at the Inquiry if his doctors permit him to travel. If he is unable, on purely medical
1999Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I regret that I am not yet in a position to give this information. I will do my best.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have said so; she is released.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am informed that Mrs. Ryan was arrested on 16th February, by the direction of the competent military authority, for refusing to exhibit a martial law proclamation in the window of her house. She was tried by Summary Court on 26th February, fined £15, and released. Previous to her arrest arrangements were made for her children to be cared for by her sister.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have directed inquiry to be made into this case. If the hon. Member will be good enough to repeat his question next Thursday, I will endeavour to furnish him with the information that he desires.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I remember the speech of the hon. Member with great pleasure, but I must have notice of that question.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I received notice of this question only yesterday. I at once gave direction for the most searching inquiry to be made into these allegations.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Judge Advocates at courts-martial in Ireland are persons approved by the Judge Advocate General as having a sufficient degree of legal training and experience. In addition, when the trial is on a capital charge under the Restoration of Order in Ireland Act, the Court must include as member a person certified by the Lord Chancellor of Ireland or the Lord Chief Justice of England to be a person of legal knowledge and experience.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The earlier reports which reached me with regard to this matter seemed to indicate that such bombs had been used, but this was not confirmed by later information. No incendiary bombs have at any time been issued to any of the Crown Forces in Ireland.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I thought that that was always done.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I received a full report concerning the occurrences at Balbriggan on the night of the 21st September last, many days before the 9th October. I have at no time, however, received a report to the effect that the deaths of two women and four children resulted from the disturbances on the night in question. I am informed that there is no truth in this allegation.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The Commander-in-Chief informs me that he has not been able to identify the incident referred to from the particulars contained in the hon. Member's question, which do not include either the substance of the complaint or the date of the occurrence of which he complains. He has, however, asked the Officer Commanding at Thurles to furnish a report. Perhaps the hon. Member will kindly repeat his question one day next week.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I must answer a question in the way that I think will give the greatest information to the Member who asks it and to the whole House. I cannot pledge myself to issue in full all the reports I receive.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have been asked to reply.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The Prime Minister has asked me to answer it, and I am going to do it. The Restoration of Order in Ireland Act, 1920, passed only last August in circumstances familiar to this House, contains no provision for an appeal to any civil court from the courts-martial to which jurisdiction is given under that Act. The procedure of these courts follows the law and practice relating to courts-martial held under the Army Act, for which a sufficient and suitable system of review is in force, and from which any appeal to a civil court would be entirely inappropriate. The proceedings of these, as of all other courts-martial, are reviewed by the Judge Advocate-General before confirmation of sentence. The accused can also avail himself of his right to petition the Commander-in-Chief and the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland. It is not proposed to take any such action as is suggested.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Three persons have been arrested and are awaiting trial for this murder. It would, therefore, in my view be improper for me to make any statement at present in regard to the facts of the case.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: As I stated, in reply to a question by the hon. Member for the Harrow Division on Tuesday, I have directed full inquiry to be made into this matter. I must necessarily await the receipt of that report before making any further statement in regard to this matter.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The provisions of Part II of the Schedule referred to are essential for the purpose of securing that due allowance is made for increases of pre-war pension already granted through improvement in pensions scale or increase in pensionable emoluments since the 4th August, 1914. The suggestion of my hon. and learned Friend is, therefore, not practicable.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I know that many ex-members of the Royal Irish Constabulary are in very hard circumstances, but it is for this House to decide whether their pensions shall be increased, and not for me.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The position of the Royal Irish Constabulary pensioners was very fully considered when the Pensioners (Increase) Act was passing through this House. I cannot, therefore, hold out any hope amending legislation on this subject.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have asked the Treasury, and they have referred me to the House of Commons.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: It is open to the relatives of the late Mr. Crowley to claim compensation in the ordinary way under the Criminal Injuries Act. Such compensation would be payable from the local rates. In regard to the remainder of the question, a written statement by Mr. Brady, setting out in full the circumstances of the murder, was fully considered in the course of the official investigation into the conduct of the cadets who were witnesses of the occurrence. As a result of this investigation it was decided that these cadets were in no way responsible for the crime, and that no action was called for in their case.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: I must ask for notice of that.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I hope I have as much humanity as any hon. Member. Many very, very grievous cases come to me every day. I cannot alter the law, and my answer must remain that the relatives of Mr. Crowley can claim compensation in the ordinary way under the Criminal Injuries Act.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: And if an hon. Member asks me a question on a specific event or incident, I am bound to refer to the authorities in Ireland for an official answer.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: If an outrage has taken place inquiry is automatically made into it; but, unless it is raised by an hon. Member of this House, I do not personally ask for a report of every alleged outrage in Ireland.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Certainly, in the usual way, if I call for a report of a specific case; but not all reports on alleged outrages in Ireland are forwarded to me.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I should require notice of that question. I send my request to both authorities for a report from both—the Commander-in-Chief and the Chief of the Police.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Perhaps I may answer that question in addition to what was said in Debate the other night. In the martial law area all the police and military are under General Strickland. In the rest of Ireland the police and military work in co-operation, but the police are under their police head, and the military under the Commander-in-Chief.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: General Tudor.Sir H. GREENWOOD
1984: I have made careful inquiry into this matter and am informed that Mr. Dorrins was admitted to the Jervis Street Hospital, Dublin, about midnight on the 3rd ultimo, suffering from shock as the result of being immersed in water, and was detained as a patient for a week, but that the police have been unable to obtain any information as to the persons by whom he was
1984Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Without prejudging the facts of the case, it is a matter for the Commander-in-Chief. The area is under martial law, and I must, naturally, await the result of his inquiry.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The answer is in the affirmative.Sir H. GREENWOOD
1982: I have called for a report with reference to these allegations. If the hon. Member will kindly repeat one day next week this question,
1982Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Reports come to me in the usual way, but I cannot accept reports in the Press as accurate—Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am informed by the Commander-in-Chief that the inquiry directed by him to be made into the circumstances attending the death of this man is still proceeding. It will be the duty of the court to obtain and weigh all the available evidence, and I am requesting the Commander-in-Chief to furnish me with the result of the proceedings at the earliest possible date.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Any question as to future legislation I must ask to have notice of.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Like every other hon. Member of this House, I am bound by the law passed by this House. I cannot alter it. As it now stands, anyone who sustains malicious injuries has a legal remedy, and it is impossible for me, with the best wishes in the world, to go outside the law.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have never said that. I have said that in hard cases I will consider the matter, but while Ireland is in a state of rebellion it is impossible to give a definite decision on isolated cases, however hard.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Chief of Police.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I wish to put a further question to the right hon. Gentleman to clear up a matter which was raised by my right hon. Friend at my side (Mr. Pretyman). The Minister has told us that the decisions of these managers of exchanges may be appealed against in the sense that the person who is applying for benefit has the right to appeal if the decision goes against him, but what is the position if a large number of people differ locally from a decision given in favour of an applicant? The Minister has told us that that case comes up to him. Does the Minister himself claim the right to review any decision that may be given, because if not, once a case has been decided by the local official in favour of an applicant, it would seem that nothing further can be done, however many people locally may object to the decision. I think the House should know that.Mr. WILSON-FOX
: Has not the right hon. Gentleman declared at that box that when the Crown Forces are found guilty of destruction or killing the Treasury will bear the expense and not the county?Mr. LAWSON
: Does the Tribunal consider the man's medical sheet during his service, and is due weight given to the local doctor's opinion?Mr. LAWSON
: The hon. Member has had his answer.Mr. SPEAKER
: That cannot arise on the Supplementary Vote for £10. It is a matter for the main Estimates and general administration.The CHAIRMAN
: May I make that clear. There is a separate Vote for the Civil Service bonus, I notice, and therefore the discussion on that must arise on that Vote, but it is, of course, quite pertinent to ask for information whether these increases are in substitution of, or in addition to, any scale of that kind.The CHAIRMAN
: I beg pardon.The CHAIRMAN
: We are not on that item now.The CHAIRMAN
col.who asked Question No.: Mr. Pennefather [col.who asked Question No.Mr. SPEAKER
: According to the precedents the Lords are not entitled, where a sum of public money is involved, to alter the conditions (either by way of limiting them or by way of increasing them) under which such moneys become payable to those who are entitled to receive them. It is open of course to the House to waive its privilege if it is so desired, at all events the Amendment is open for discussion.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member had better exhibit that in the Lobby.Mr. SPEAKER
: No. I do not propose to treat that as a privileged Amendment. My view is that the Amendment made is merely a definition of what is "suitable employment."Mr. SPEAKER
: This Amendment appears to me to be a privileged Amendment as it alters the statutory conditions for receiving unemployment benefit. The question is, "That this House doth disagree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Mr. SPEAKER
: Does the right hon. Gentleman not think that such cases are due to the fact that, although the dock labourer may be idle four days a week, he is only entitled to draw one day at the end of the week, and then there is some difficulty in getting it? It is owing to the unfortunate conditions under which they have to apply under the Unemployment Insurance Act.Mr. SEXTON
22.  asked the Chief Secretary if he is aware that a complaint was made to the officer commanding troops, Thurles, by a woman as to the conduct of two soldiers; whether an inquiry was held; and, if so, what was the result of the inquiry?Mr. WIGNALL
: That is not true.Mr. WIGNALL
2077: I am rather inclined to think the discussion has rather broadened out, and one must answer some of the statements that have been made. The right hon. Baronet the Member for the City of London has forgotten one essential fact in connection with the Unemployment Insurance Act, and that is if men fail to agree with their employers and a dispute follows—I am not talking about the individual man and his 35s. or 40s. a week, I am talking about trades and large bodies of people; if they fail to agree, and if it should result in a strike or even in a lock-out, the right hon. Member ought to know that no person is entitled to unemployment benefit during the period of that dispute, so that knocks his argument all to bits.
2077Mr. WIGNALL
2071: The sum of 40s. was a figure which I had in mind in relation to the benefit to be paid. That is what I understand the right hon. Baronet to say. It may be that his argument that wages will have to come down is correct; I hope not. But still, if eventually there is a variation, I suggest that any variation in remuneration or any reduction in wages should come as a result of mutual agreement and as a result of compromise and the acceptance of overwhelming facts. I hope wages will not have to be reduced, but if there is to be a change it should not be brought about by the process which the right hon. Gentleman has advocated, that is, by compelling a workman out of a job to take less wages than he has been accustomed to work for, or, if he refuses, to force him to take less because you deprive him of his unemployment benefit. That is exerting an inhuman pressure upon him if he does not consent to accept the lower rate of pay. That is a process which is not likely to benefit industry or create a better feeling between employers and employed. I ask the House particularly to go back to the central argument used by the right hon. Gentleman who explained the purpose of this Amendment and its meaning. I think the case he made out is sufficient to secure for it unanimous acceptance. It is that no variation by Amendment in the insurance law should be made in order to completely upset existing customs and trade conditions in regard to wage questions.2071Mr. CLYNES
: I understood the right hon. Baronet to say that the benefit was 40s. a week.Mr. CLYNES
: I take exception to the right hon. Baronet's suggestion that to disagree with this Amendment will cause more trouble and more unemployment. The right hon. Gentleman has preferred to state the cases of men receiving unemployment benefit of 40s. per week. That is rather an exaggeration, because the actual benefit is not 40s. a week.Mr. CLYNES
: I hope that the House will support the right hon. Gentleman the Minister for Labour in his proposal to disagree with the Amendment. With all respect, I take leave to say that the right hon. Baronet the Member for the City of London (Sir F. Banbury) has not on this occasion revealed his usual knowledge either of human nature or of industry in the case which he has presented in support of his attitude.Mr. CLYNES
2087: Personally I do not join in any reproach which has been directed against the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir F. Banbury) with regard to his attitude during this discussion. He is quite consistent in the line that he is following, and he is following the line which I quite expected him to follow. I think, however, that he is not exhibiting anything like a fair attitude of mind as between one class and another in the support which he is giving to this Amendment. I do not think that he would support the principle of this Amendment in relation to any other than a working class family. Let me give my reason for that conclusion. The right hon. Baronet is a very strong and consistent defender of the rights of the individual, as he sees those rights. What is the situation here? Two persons, man and wife, both contribute to the insurance fund. They may do it reluctantly, but they are compelled by law to do it. They have both thereby secured a certain legal right, namely, the right to benefit during a state of unemployment. This Amendment proposes that, should it happen in this working-class household that one of the workers is compulsorily unemployed and entitled to benefit, he or she shall not get that benefit if the other worker happens to be earning wages amounting to 40s. a week. I say that that is depriving one of the two individuals of the amount to which he or she is legally entitled by the contributions which the law compels them to make. Let us see how easy it would be to evade the effect of this Amendment if it were passed. The man is out of work, but the law says that he is not to have his benefit because his wife is in employment. How easy it is for the wife to put herself in a state of unemployment, so that both might receive a total sum of £2 a week. This Amendment would abrogate the personal rights of the insured individual, and even the right hon. Baronet himself ought not to be found supporting it. I object to it most of all on the ground that it embodies the principle of fixing a maximum household income for a working-class family in a manner in which no one would think of fixing a maximum income in the case of any other family. If we are to avoid class legislation and the class view, no
2087Mr. CLYNES
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that all the responsible leaders of Irish opinion have been put in prison?Mr. CLYNES
2114: I take advantage of this Motion to address questions on two general points to my right hon. Friend opposite. One is with regard to what I understand is the increasing degree of complaint on the part of many of the associations, due to the very serious delay in sending the authority to pay the benefits to which the persons are entitled. I have recently seen evidence of delay in sending this authority extending to six and seven weeks, and it is really very hard that men should have to wait so long for their pay. I want to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman will take some steps to have some special inquiry made into these cases, provided, of course, we supply him with some definite instances which may guide him as to the causes of delay, which is a ground of real soreness, naturally, to trade unions and the men themselves. The other point is with reference to a statement made by the right hon. Gentleman at the beginning of the Debate this afternoon. I understood him to say that he intended to issue through the proper quarter—the various Employment Exchanges—some instruction with regard to women or other persons who might have exhausted their benefit, but who might desire to claim the extended benefit accruing under this amending Bill. I understand he has in mind the case of persons, mostly women, whose condition in life has so altered that they do not intend in the future to seek any ordinary wage-earning occupation, and I believe it is the intention to prevent the payment of the benefits in those cases. What I want to ask is, what precisely are the steps which he intends to take? I should hope he would avoid anything in the nature of offensive or objectionable domestic inquisition, and that some step will be taken to have a proper authority to decide whether those persons have a proper claim or not. I think it would be re-assuring to the particular individuals
2114Mr. CLYNES
: I do not share the fears of my hon. Friend (Mr. Thomson) regarding the effect of the Amendment, and as a matter of choice I should prefer that the shorter date be in the Bill. It will give us an earlier opportunity of reviewing the circumstances and conditions which at the moment we cannot estimate. If the period was left as the end of 1924 it would mean that a Government might be unwilling to return to this topic until the Act had expired, and that would deprive us of an opportunity of reviewing this problem in the light of circumstances which may develop in the course of the next 12 or 18 months. From the standpoint of the usefulness of the Bill this Amendment is quite harmless, but the balance of advantage so far as the workers are concerned lies in the acceptance of the Lords Amendment.Mr. CLYNES
: The Orders of the Agricultural Wages Board relate only to employment in agriculture as denned by the Corn Production Act. The amount of ordinary agricultural work available is not larger than usual at this time of year, but it is understood that in certain parts of the country the reclamation or improvement of land has been undertaken with the view of providing additional employment. Whether any such operations come within the statutory definition of employment in agriculture can only be decided by reference to the circumstances of the case, and if my hon. Friend will supply me with particulars of any case which he has in mind, I shall be glad to submit the facts to the Agricultural Wages Board for their consideration. As my hon. Friend is aware, exemption from the operation of the minimum rates of wages can only be given in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 (3) of the Corn Production Act, and does not rest in the discretion of the Minister or of the Agricultural Wages Board.Lieut.-Colonel Sir J. GILMOUR
2146in toto: I am very much surprised that a new Department is starting at this time when everybody is looking forward to Departments being scrapped. I have listened to the Debate so far as it has gone, and I am simply appalled at the idea of this sort of camouflage which has been used with regard to the recovery of this amount. It reminds me of a snake eating its own tail. All the money is supposed to be got back from the local authorities. But what are the local authorities responsible for? All that they are responsible for is a penny rate per annum and the whole excess beyond that comes from the Treasury. Therefore, you are charging us something here which is in the nature of a snake eating its own tail. I understand we are not entitled to go into the principle or the policy that enables the Office of Works to start on a Department which is nationalising building by a back door, to which I very strongly object. I object to it 2146in totoMr. LORDEN
2109: References have been made to the Labour Exchanges, and I would suggest that hon. Members who are interested in their work should at least attend an occasional meeting of an unemployment committee. Then I am certain there are Members of the House who would come down to the realities of the case. In the first place the managers of the Labour Exchanges are the very last persons in the world to be favourable to the men—[HON. MEMBERS: "No, no!]—because, in the last resort, their promotion depends entirely upon their efficiency as viewed from the central office, and it certainly would not be viewed in any favourable light if their decisions were of the character suggested by hon. Members. With regard to the Lords Amendment under discussion, it is, after all, a breach of contract. You have men who have subscribed towards unemployment insurance, under the impression that there is a certain wording in the Act, and here you deliberately alter it. In a Debate on the question of unemployment I raised the point as to what should be reasonable remuneration for work done, but obviously that comes up against the whole principles of this Act. The men on the unemployment committees, the representatives of employers and employed, do not allow the managers of the Labour Exchanges to have any power in the matter. The manager attends largely as a spectator, and may be called on to give his advice occasionally, but he is never there as an autocrat or even as a benevolent autocrat.2109Mr. MILLS
18.  asked the Chief Secretary on what grounds Mr. Sean McGrath, residing at 23, Rochester Place, Kentish Town, was taken from the office of the Irish Self-Determination League, 182, Shaftesbury Avenue, was refused permission to consult a solicitor, or to communicate with his wife; and where he is now detained and upon what charge?Mr. MILLS
: Would not the chosen representatives of the Irish people be the proper persons with whom to negotiate a settlement?Mr. SWAN
13.  asked the Chief Secretary whether at the court-martial which convicted Conway and Potter of the murder of Lieutenant Angliss 15 witnesses were brought to prove an alibi for Conway and seven to prove that Potter was in bed at the time?Mr. SWAN
2084: There is no need for a Motion to waive the privilege
2084Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: This Amendment falls under the same ruling of Mr. Speaker in regard to the matter of privilege.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: No. The question was, "That this House doth disagree with the Lords in said Amendment." Had the Motion been to agree with the Amendment, an entry would be made in the Journal that the privilege was waived.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER (Mr. Whitley)
: No such general economic considerations are relevant on this occasion. I must again ask the hon. Member to direct himself to the Amendment.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: This is introducing matter which is irrelevant to the question before the House. On these Lords Amendments we keep with special care to the actual matter of the Amendment.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: This is an Amendment which may possibly vary the benefits. Therefore I ought to draw attention to it as a privilege Amendment.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
resumed the Chair. resumed the Chair.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: Does anyone receive dividends on anything?Mr. DEVLIN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether this declaration is to be universally applied in Ireland, and whether he is aware of the fact that persons found guilty of carrying revolvers and ammunition in Ulster have been fined 40s. and costs?Mr. DEVLIN
: You have no evidence of that.Mr. DEVLIN
: May I ask the Prime Minister whether in view of the fact that a universal feeling prevails in the country that many innocent men are being executed—[HON. MEMBERS: "No!"]—I know and you do not—he will consider the desirability of setting up some non-military tribunal for the purpose of having all the evidence investigated before the sentence is carried out?Mr. DEVLIN
: I want the Prime Minister to answer it.Mr. DEVLIN
: May I ask the right hon. Gentleman a question which I know he will treat sympathetically, whether he is aware that really the major portion of all the evils which have sprung up in Ireland during the last four years were due to the executions in 1916, and whether, in view of the crop of troubles which have been consequent on those executions and the great feeling of horror created in the country, he will consider the desirability of trying to do something to stop this thing and try to approach the question in some other way, and not continue a policy which is bound to poison all future relations between this country and Ireland?Mr. DEVLIN
34.  asked the Prime Minister whether any provision exists for an appeal from a death sentence passed by the military courts set up in Ireland under the Restoration of Order Act, 1920, and other Acts; and, if not, whether, in view of the large number of death sentences inflicted by these courts, he will make immediate provision for appeals to the civil courts from such military courts?Mr. DEVLIN
: In the rebellion there were a number of people killed as well.Mr. DEVLIN
: Have there been too many cases of looting for the right hon. Gentleman to remember that one?Mr. DEVLIN
: How many women are in prison in Ireland for such offences?Mr. DEVLIN
: May I repeat a question which I put to the right hon. Gentleman the other day, namely, whether, when questions are put to him and he is not in possession of full information, and is calling for a report, he will be good enough to convey the report which he has received to the Member who put the question, without his having to put down a special question in regard to it?Mr. DEVLIN
1990: Would the right hon. Gentleman, in order to clear up this and
1990Mr. DEVLIN
rose roseMr. DEVLIN
59.  asked the Chief Secretary whether his attention has been called to the burning of 20 houses in the town of Ballylongford, County Kerry, on Tuesday, 22nd February, by the forces of the Crown; whether seven lorries of these forces visited the town, and raided and looted houses, before finally setting them on fire; whether, amongst other buildings raided, was the local post office, from which over £30 worth in cash and stamps was stolen; whether the lorries afterwards drove back to Tralee laden with loot; and what steps he proposes to take in the matter?Mr. DEVLIN
: Were any reservations of this character made when the representatives of the British Government met the representatives of the Boers in South Africa? Could not some of the things done by these representatives be described as the right hon. Gentleman has described some of the things done in Ireland? And is there any possibility of a conference ever taking place if the right hon. Gentleman insists upon getting men to admit that they are murderers when they are not?Mr. DEVLIN
1997: Are we to understand that there has been an offer that the representatives of the people, all of them unreservedly, are to be permitted to meet for the purpose of considering any proposals and that they and the representa-
1997Mr. DEVLIN
2000: Does the right hon. Gentleman not think it very undesirable to have a boy of 17 years executed, apart
2000Mr. DEVLIN
60.  asked the Chief Secretary whether his attention has been called to the action of the Crown forces at Cahirvoneen, near Kinvarra, County Galway; whether these forces stripped naked six young farmers, and put them lying face down on the ground with heavy stones over them; whether, after burning their clothes, they forced these young men to carry from the farmhouse of Mrs. Quinn fowl, bacon, flour, and other things to a lorry which was waiting, after which they mercilessly beat these young men and dismissed them; and whether he will take any action to have the guilty parties punished?Mr. DEVLIN
: When an incident of this character takes place, when it is notorious that it has taken place, and when the fact that it has taken place has been published in the Press, does not the right hon. Gentleman himself inquire into the truth or otherwise of the allegations made?Mr. DEVLIN
1980: If the right hon. Gentleman's interpretation of the law is correct—that he has no power to grant compensation—how can he consider special cases? Will he introduce a short Bill into the House of Commons to so change the law as to enable him to pay compensation to these horribly treated people, the wives
1980Mr. DEVLIN
: May I ask—Mr. DEVLIN
: What is his precise position?Mr. DEVLIN
: Who really is the head of the police in Ireland?Mr. DEVLIN
: When an inquiry has automatically taken place, is the right hon. Gentleman informed of the result of that inquiry?Mr. DEVLIN
: When charges and allegations of so serious a character as these are made against the uniformed officers of the Crown, and when these facts are notorious and are published in the Press, does not the right hon. Gentleman, in the interests of his own administration, call for reports at the time in order to gather whether they are accurate or not? It is now five weeks since this outrage took place, and since it was published in the Press that it had taken place.Mr. DEVLIN
: May I press for an answer to my question? The Government cannot bring this man's life back, they cannot return him to his widow and little children. What does the right hon. Gentleman propose to do for the victims of one of the cruellest murders ever committed?Mr. DEVLIN
1979: The husband of this poor woman was murdered by one of the uniformed officers of the Crown, who was
1979Mr. DEVLIN
57.  asked the Chief Secretary how many members of the forces of the Crown formed the escort in charge of James Murphy on the evening of the 9th February last when James Murphy was murdered?Mr. MOSLEY
: Cannot the right hon. Gentleman state whether there were only three persons on this lorry or whether there were more?Mr. MOSLEY
: He dare not!Mr. MOSLEY
: May I ask the Prime Minister why he was not acquainted with events which took place nearly a fortnight before he went to Carnarvon on 3rd October and delivered a speech on the Irish situation which, according to this information, entirely misrepresented the facts of the case?Mr. MOSLEY
30.  asked the Prime Minister whether he had received, before the 9th October, any information concerning the sacking of Balbriggan by forces of the Crown on 21st September, 1920, resulting in the death of two women and four children; and, if so, what is the character of that information?Mr. MOSLEY
: Does the right hon. Gentleman admit official sanction?Mr. MOSLEY
: May I ask for a definite answer from the right hon. Gentleman? Has any official sanction ever been extended to the policy of reprisals? That question has never been answered. Will he answer it now?Mr. MOSLEY
: Does the right hon. Gentleman definitely state that no official sanction whatsoever has ever been extended to the policy of reprisals, at any rate, beyond that which has been supplied in his early speeches?Mr. MOSLEY
31.  asked the Prime Minister whether between the months of June and October last, inclusive, any proposals for the initiation or continuance of the policy of reprisals in Ireland were laid before the Cabinet or any section of the Cabinet; whether such proposals were discussed; and whether any decision upon the subject was given or any form of sanction extended to such a policy?Mr. MOSLEY
2132: I rise to add my protest to those already advanced against this increase in the salary of two civil servants. It really reflects a most remarkable state of mind on the part of the Government at this juncture in our affairs to be in the habit of coming to the House to request increases of the salaries of bureaucrats. The argument has been advanced that these two gentlemen could command larger salaries in business than they do in the Civil Service. That is no argument at all. Once the Civil Service begins to compete in terms of money with business for the best brains in the country, the competition is never ended and we cannot possibly compete successfully with business. There are other factors surely which attract a man to Government service beyond merely mercenary conditions. The power and the prestige which attach to a Civil Service appointment will always attract the best brains of the country to the Civil Service, always providing the salaries are adequate to provide a man with a sufficient sum for the proper maintenance of his family and the education of his children. It is seriously contended that salaries respectively of £2,000 a year and £1,500 are not sufficient inducement to persuade men to remain in the Civil Service, and that they may be tempted away to business. Does anyone seriously contend that men cannot adequately support families on incomes of this amount, cannot educate their children and maintain a position in life commensurate with the dignity of their position? At this moment when it is suggested in many quarters that an all-round reduction in wages may be necessary and in some quarters it is
2132Mr. MOSLEY
: No.Mr. MOSLEY
: It is true that a Civil servant has a pension, but if he had not a pension he would very likely be getting a bigger salary. It means that he is working for less money than he would otherwise have in private enterprise, and the remarks of the hon. Member were very uncalled for. I think, however, that the Minister ought to give a further explanation. Unless a satisfactory reason is given we are right in going to a Division.Mr. McLAREN
: I do not think we have had a satisfactory reply as to the reason for these proposed increases of salary. I must, however, take strong exception to the remarks of the last speaker with respect to Civil servants. He seems to think that the Civil servant because he is entitled to a pension is not as good a man as he might otherwise be.Mr. R. McLAREN
: The hon. Member for Hull used the term, "two bureaucrats." There is only one bureaucrat, and one-Government broker concerned. The hon. Member (Colonel L. Ward) was not in the House in the early part of the Debate when I said that one of the increases is an increase for the Government broker.Mr. BALDWIN
ad hoc2134: My right hon. Friend need not be anxious about the point he raised in regard to the increase of the salaries of subordinate officers as a consequence of the proposed increase of the salary of the Comptroller-General, because I understand that in this case the
ad hoc2134Mr. BALDWIN
assented. assented.Mr. BALDWIN
: Because he left the Treasury during re-organisation, so that he would not lose by the change.Mr. BALDWIN
: I said the salary he would have been getting if he were at the Treasury now.Mr. BALDWIN
: I beg the hon. Member's pardon. They certainly are not on this Vote. The increase for the Controller-General is a purely personal increase, and arises out of circumstances I have tried to describe. The increase to the broker must be of course permanent until such time as there comes a reduction of business which would warrant a reduction of salary.Mr. BALDWIN
: I did my best to make myself plain. What my hon. Friend wants to know now is what is being done in the higher Civil Service salaries? That question can be raised when we come to the question of bonus. It does not arise on this Estimate, nor is the instance of the rise here attributable to any general rise such as he suggests.Mr. BALDWIN
: The right hon. Baronet is quite correct. Clerical assistance is only in the National Debt office. The brokers only get this sum.Mr. BALDWIN
: I would not like to commit myself without reference, but I think about £500 a year.Mr. BALDWIN
2135: I do not think that that arises on this Vote, but I think it almost certain that he is receiving war bonus, because war bonus is being gener-
2135Mr. BALDWIN
: I shall do my best to deal with the points which have been raised. The first question on which most Members expressed their view is the amount of salary given to the Controller-General. I may say at once that this is a personal salary confined to the present holder of the office, and is not an increase which will be given in the case of his successor.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Baldwin)
2122: Yes, as regards the present holder, and the reason he has been given £2,500 is this: The present holder is Sir Thomas Heath, a very distinguished Civil servant, who was a Joint Permanent Secretary to the Treasury throughout the period of the War. At this juncture we considered it of great importance to have a man of his eminence in the Civil Service at the head of this office when it is being re-organised, and during a few years when undoubtedly the responsibilities of that office are a great deal heavier than they have been in years past. In sending him from the Treasury to this very distinguished post we undertook that he should not have less remuneration than he would have had had he remained at the Treasury. In the natural course of events, Sir Thomas Heath's tenure cannot be a long one, because of his age, and I do not think that any Member of this Committee acquainted with him and with the work that he has done would grudge him as a personal salary the salary which we have put down in this Estimate.2122Mr. BALDWIN
422
422—1-2
—1-2none1Ministry of Munitions
none1Ministry of Munitions11G.P.O
11G.P.OCivil Departments—
Civil Departments——3-20
—3-20none5Air Ministry
none5Air Ministry310War Office
310War Officenone5Admiralty
none5Admiralty1914.1921.—
1914.1921.—
422
422—1-2
—1-2none1Ministry of Munitions
none1Ministry of Munitions11G.P.O
11G.P.OCivil Departments—
Civil Departments——3-20
—3-20none5Air Ministry
none5Air Ministry310War Office
310War Officenone5Admiralty
none5Admiralty1914.1921.—
1914.1921.—: The number of motor cars in use in London by Government Departments is:
422
422—1-2
—1-2none1Ministry of Munitions
none1Ministry of Munitions11G.P.O
11G.P.OCivil Departments—
Civil Departments——3-20
—3-20none5Air Ministry
none5Air Ministry310War Office
310War Officenone5Admiralty
none5Admiralty1914.1921.—
1914.1921.—
422
422—1-2
—1-2none1Ministry of Munitions
none1Ministry of Munitions11G.P.O
11G.P.OCivil Departments—
Civil Departments——3-20
—3-20none5Air Ministry
none5Air Ministry310War Office
310War Officenone5Admiralty
none5Admiralty1914.1921.—
1914.1921.—The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Baldwin)
(3) Cheaper printing through competition of northern and southern printers due to the elimination of double handling of paper.(2) Cheaper distribution to the centres of population in the northern area.(1) Cheaper transit from paper-mill to the warehouse.
(3) Cheaper printing through competition of northern and southern printers due to the elimination of double handling of paper.(2) Cheaper distribution to the centres of population in the northern area.(1) Cheaper transit from paper-mill to the warehouse.: No new stocks of paper or printed forms have been created by the transfer of the Northern Area branch of the Stationery Office from Manchester to Hollinwood. The Stationery Office in Manchester has been in existence since 1916, when the work of supplying paper, stationery, office requisites, office machinery, and of distributing printed forms and books to Government offices (now some 20,000) in the northern area of England and in Wales, was transferred from London to Manchester. The stocks of paper, forms, books and office supplies held at Hollinwood at the present moment are estimated at 5,000 tons, comprising a variety of over 41,000 articles. The number of requisitions received is about 300,000 a year. In comparison with similar work required for the northern area when formerly executed in London, the following main grounds of economy were anticipated and have been realized:
(3) Cheaper printing through competition of northern and southern printers due to the elimination of double handling of paper.(2) Cheaper distribution to the centres of population in the northern area.(1) Cheaper transit from paper-mill to the warehouse.
(3) Cheaper printing through competition of northern and southern printers due to the elimination of double handling of paper.(2) Cheaper distribution to the centres of population in the northern area.(1) Cheaper transit from paper-mill to the warehouse.Mr. BALDWIN
: Did not the right hon. Gentleman impose the condition that the Irish should lay down their arms?Mr. T. GRIFFITHS
23.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he is aware that on the 30th January a body of auxiliaries, accompanied by two sergeants of the Elphin Royal Irish Constabulary, surrounded Creeve Catholic Church, while Mass was in progress, and planted a machine gun in a field commanding the sacred edifice; that as the congregation left the church they were all, including women and children, searched, and a number of men were beaten with rifles, etc., in the course of an attempt to extort from them information as to persons on the run; that, in the act of striking a young man with a rifle, one of the auxiliaries missed his aim and smashed a church window; that the officiating priest was subjected to search, during the progress of which he was compelled to keep the sacred Host, which was in his custody at the time, in his outstretched hand in order to prevent desecration; that the church and sacristy were thoroughly searched, the priest being forced to open the tabernacle on the high altar; that even an empty ciborium, used for the custody of the sacred communion wafers, was peered into; that a tabernacle on a side altar, for which the priest had no key, was broken open; and whether, in view of the enormity, in the eyes of the people, of this sacrilege, he will have inquiries made into the matter, and give instructions that such acts shall not be repeated?Mr. GRIFFITHS
55.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he is now in a position to state the result of his inquiry into the case of Mr. E. Dorrins, a member of the United Operative Plumbers and Domestic Engineers' Association, who was taken from his bed at his own home in Dublin at 12.30 a.m. on 3rd February by Crown forces, and after ill-treatment by them was conveyed in a motor lorry through the city and was asked by the officer in charge whether he would like to be drowned or shot, and was taken to Capel Street bridge where three members of the Crown forces flung him into the river; and what action he proposes to take in the matter?Mr. T. GRIFFITHS
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware of the disastrous prolongation of the harvest in the Western Counties of Scotland owing to the operation of the Daylight Saving Act, and will he make inquiries of the farming interest in Galloway and the adjoining counties as to the effects of that Act?Mr. INSKIP
: If they had twenty weeks' employment to their credit during 1920 they would be entitled by reason of that qualification to sixteen weeks' benefit up to the end of October, and by the same qualification to another sixteen weeks up to the end of June, 1921.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move, "That this House doth disagree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Dr. MACNAMARA
"That he is capable of and available for work, but unable to obtain employment on reasonable terms for which he is physically and otherwise fit."20622061"or so as to render it necessary for the Minister at any time before the third day of November, nineteen hundred and twenty-one, to require any association to make for the purposes of proviso (a) to Sub-section (1) of Section seventeen of the principal Act any greater or further provision for unemployment benefit than would have been required to be made for those purposes if this Act had not passed.""(2) In the application of this Act to Ireland references to a court of referees 6hall be substituted for references to a local employment committee."20602059: How happy I should be with either of my hon. Friends. The next Amendment—in Clause 3, Sub-section (3), after the word "Section" ["no person shall be entitled to benefit under this Section"] to insert the words "whose wife or husband resident in the same house is in receipt of wages, annuity, or other income amounting to more than double unemployment benefit at the full rate, or"—again is a very serious Amendment to put in an Amending Insurance Bill. The effect would be that when a man and his wife, both insured persons, were living in the same house, and one was in receipt of an income of over 40s. a week, the other, though unemployed, would be disqualified from benefit. It must be remembered that this is an Insurance Bill guaranteeing a personal benefit for a personal contribution, and, of course, the contributions have been paid for years on that basis. I venture to suggest that to impose this disqualification in respect of persons who, though married, are both operatives and intend to continue operatives, would be dangerously near a breach of faith, and, even if you could do so, it is only proposed in
"That he is capable of and available for work, but unable to obtain employment on reasonable terms for which he is physically and otherwise fit."20622061"or so as to render it necessary for the Minister at any time before the third day of November, nineteen hundred and twenty-one, to require any association to make for the purposes of proviso (a) to Sub-section (1) of Section seventeen of the principal Act any greater or further provision for unemployment benefit than would have been required to be made for those purposes if this Act had not passed.""(2) In the application of this Act to Ireland references to a court of referees 6hall be substituted for references to a local employment committee."20602059Dr. MACNAMARA
2063: Yes, certainly; in this association anyhow. The last Amendment is a verbal Amendment. I have now gone through the Lords Amendments, and I will take care, as they arise, not to repeat anything I have said. I just want to make one broad comment on the whole matter. In this Bill, largely by drawing on the accumulated Insurance Fund in order to meet a time of grave unemployment, we are substantially increasing benefit, both as regards amounts and periods for which it may be drawn, and during the emergency period we are
2063Dr. MACNAMARA
: I will take care not to repeat anything that I have said.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I am entirely in the hands of the House. I thought that I should less meet the convenience of the House if I explained them one by one, but each of them will have to be put from the Chair.Dr. MACNAMARA
2058c"(c2057b(2057bb2056: Perhaps I may be allowed to express my thanks to the Members of the other House for the immediate consideration which they have given to the Unemployment Insurance Act Amendment Bill, which passed its Third Reading in this House on Thursday. Like my hon. Friends and colleagues in this House, the Noble Lords recognise the extreme urgency of the problem, and are anxious that the alleviations contained in the Bill shall be immediately available for those who need it, and are qualified to obtain it. Most of the Amendments which we are now asked to consider are either drafting Amendments or are designed to express the intentions of the Bill more clearly than its text did when it left us. I shall ask the House to agree to those Amendments. They were, indeed, accepted in another place on the suggestion of the Noble Lord in charge of the Bill on behalf of the Government. There are two or three other Amendments of substance to which, again, I shall ask the House to agree. There are, however, three Amendments which substantially affect the practice and policy of industrial unemployment insurance as we have conceived it and followed it since 1911. To those I shall be compelled to ask the House to disagree. With this preamble, let me take the Amendments seriatim.2058c"(c2057b(2057bb2056The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
: I explained the effect of the Amendment earlier.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move, "That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Dr. MACNAMARA
: Yes. We agree.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move as an Amendment to the Lords Amendment to leave out the word "sixth" and to insert instead thereof the word "first."Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move "That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Dr. MACNAMARA
: With great respect there has been no Motion, so far as I am concerned, to waive the privilege. I understood Mr. Speaker to say that this was a question of privilege, but that the Debate might continue.Dr. MACNAMARA
: On a point of Order. Is it not necessary to move to waive the question of privilege?Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move, "That this House doth disagree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Dr. MACNAMARA
: Had he continued to be so employed.Dr. MACNAMARA
: "Or would have obtained;"—that is the last part.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I said, "If the person had satisfied the conditions of the Act."Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have been asked to reply. I am aware of the representations referred to in the earlier parts of the question. As regards the late Ministry of Reconstruction, the efforts of that body appear to have been limited to asking for particulars as to works which might be undertaken on the conclusion of the War. A good deal of this work has been put in hand during the last year or two, and in so far as this has not been done already, I trust that local authorities will be encouraged to take advantage of the assistance which may be received from the Unemployment Grants Committee. The Government's contribution towards the relief of unemployment takes the substantial form provided by the Unemployment Insurance Act which is now being extended; large grants for the construction of arterial roads; the assistance which is given, through the Unemployment Grants Committee; alternative work and short time in Government establishments; and the expediting of the lay-out of roads and sewers on approved housing schemes.The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
: Perhaps the hon. Member will discuss the matter with me.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The West Ham Guardians have received a reply to their petition that an Exchequer grant should be made in relief of local rates that this cannot be granted.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have taken up by telegram the question of whether any men last Friday failed to receive any Out-of Work Donation due to them. If so, that shall at once be remedied. It may be, however, that the men in question exhausted last week what was due to them under the fourth extension of Out-of-Work Donation, or the amended Unemployment Insurance Act of last December. The Bill, which we shall immediately receive back from another place, is designed to render assistance by extending the period of benefit. And if, as I hope, it becomes law to-day, every effort will be made to commence payment at the earliest possible date.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I cannot say offhand whether there is a regulation which says to the manager: "If there is any doubt about that case, do not grant benefit, but suspend." If there is no such regulation, I will give an undertaking that there shall be. I wish to deal fairly and squarely, and I will give this undertaking to my hon. Friend.Dr. MACNAMARA
2106: Let us take the case where a too favourable decision has been given. If a manager is in doubt
2106Dr. MACNAMARA
: I said the administration of the new Unemployment Insurance Act would follow the administration of the out-of-work donation, to which that decision which I have read did apply.Dr. MACNAMARA
2115: I am very much obliged to my right hon. Friend for his comments, and I, too, am much obliged to all parties of the House for the way I have been helped in bringing this Bill to a final conclusion under the urgent circumstances with which we are confronted. With regard to the right hon. Gentleman's two questions. The first point is that associations under Section 17 of the main Act find that they cannot get reimbursed with sufficient quickness for money paid out, or cannot get authority from us to pay out money as agents under the main Act. Every case brought before me I have done my best to hasten. All sorts of checks are necessary for the proper expenditure of public money, and in some cases the local branch secretary of the trade union has not supplied sufficient detail, or the precise information which we want. But I can assure my right hon. Friend that it has been before me constantly ever since the fall of the year, and anything I can do, or the officials can do, to expedite the payment of money due, we will do, and any case he brings to my notice I will take up personally forthwith. With regard to the second point, a woman has been insured and she marries. There are certain contributions to her credit. She is no longer going to be in the industrial world; her necessities do not
2115Dr. MACNAMARA
2112: I want to go further. I did not refer to the inspectors until the second time that I tried to ex-
2112Dr. MACNAMARA
: Certainly.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The manager is instructed by the Ministry of Labour. These Regulations place upon him the necessity to look closely into the conditions under which persons may receive benefit. When this Act is passed the manager will again be instructed by a series of Regulations which I am going to send out. If he says to an applicant, "Well, I am doubtful whether you are entitled to refuse this job, and I will therefore suspend your benefit or donation," then the Insurance Officer comes into play, and he says whether the suspension is right or wrong. If he confirms it the applicant is entitled to have the mater reviewed by appeal to the Court of Referees.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have read a decision in a case referred by the referees to the Umpire. How can I put such decisions in the Act? There are probably hundreds of them, but I read one case which referred to suitability.Dr. MACNAMARA
: How can they be?Dr. MACNAMARA
: Yes.Dr. MACNAMARA
: No, a decision.Dr. MACNAMARA
: That is exactly why these decisions are being issued so that there may be a general uniformity.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Yes.Dr. MACNAMARA
2102"A girl who is suitable for resident domestic service is not entitled to remain indefinitely on donation because she is registered for daily work. She must be offered a resident job, and, if the offer is declined, the
2102"An applicant without special skill and experience is not entitled to any period of grace in which to look for the class of work he would prefer. He must accept any appropriate vacancy for which he is reasonably well qualified.""As a general rule applicants with special skill and experience who have no prospect of re-engagement in their normal occupation should be offered appropriate alternative work, if available, after the lapse of not more than four weeks.": He cannot help his idleness. He is going to be a better watchmaker to the extent of £1 a week insurance benefit. I have here a summary of Umpires' decisions. It is a series of findings on "Suitability," and I propose to call the attention to them of all those who have to administer this Act. They show the specific conditions under which persons are eligible for benefit and the specific conditions under which they will forfeit benefit if they improperly refuse employment. This is one of the decisions:
2102"A girl who is suitable for resident domestic service is not entitled to remain indefinitely on donation because she is registered for daily work. She must be offered a resident job, and, if the offer is declined, the
2102"An applicant without special skill and experience is not entitled to any period of grace in which to look for the class of work he would prefer. He must accept any appropriate vacancy for which he is reasonably well qualified.""As a general rule applicants with special skill and experience who have no prospect of re-engagement in their normal occupation should be offered appropriate alternative work, if available, after the lapse of not more than four weeks."Dr. MACNAMARA
: The manager of the Exchange may say, "I am doubtful whether you should refuse." He will refer the case to the Insurance Officer and suspend payment in any case of doubt, or in a case where a person improperly declines work. The Insurance Officer could confirm the suspension and withhold payment of benefit, or he could say, "I think benefit ought to be paid." It would be open to the applicant to make application to the Court of Referees. Finally there will be an appeal to the Umpire.Dr. MACNAMARA
2101"is capable of and available for work, but unable to obtain employment on reasonable terms for which he is physically and otherwise fit,""must be capable of and available for work, but unable to obtain suitable employment.": I have dealt with the matter already, but I think that I had better respond to the invitation of my hon. Friend and refer to it again. Section 7 of the main Act says that the person
2101"is capable of and available for work, but unable to obtain employment on reasonable terms for which he is physically and otherwise fit,""must be capable of and available for work, but unable to obtain suitable employment."Dr. MACNAMARA
: No, I said as a shipyard labourer.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move, "That this House doth disagree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Dr. MACNAMARA
: The hon. Member made the remark that by way of a sop to those in another place we have done something to limit the benefit provided by this Act. It is nothing of the kind. The emergency period stands. Under the Bill as it stood we were compelled to review matters at the end of 1924; but by this Amendment we shall be compelled to haveDr. MACNAMARA
: I am not at all impressed by the indignation of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. In looking over this Vote, and having regard to the fact that I am going to support it, I express no opinion as to whether the travelling expenses to these particular sites where houses have been erected are reasonable or unreasonable, or whether the officials of the Department make three journeys where they ought to make two, or travel first-class when they ought to travel third. I agree that these considerations are real in this Vote, but they are quite minor ones in comparison with the general structure of the items we have under consideration. Neither do I follow the right hon. Gentleman in his remarks about the cost to the local authorities, because if the local authorities have to erect these houses they have either to pay the money over to private individuals or to the Department over which the right hon. Gentleman (Sir A. Mond) presides. It is a remarkable fact, but it is true, that these schemes which he is conducting all over the country will carry all those expenses included in this Vote, and that he can carry out a cheaper job than if the same work had been done by private enterprise. [HON. MEMBERS: "Question!"] All the evidence and facts available have proved that beyond question. [HON. MEMBERS: "No!"] Oh, yes, and much of this criticism from whichever side of the Committee it comes is directed, not against the working of the Department, but against its success. However exorbitant these charges may be, when they are all put together and imposed on the local authorities for the work done, those authorities will get much more relief than if the same work were carried out by private builders in the country.Mr. MYERS
42.  asked the Prime Minister whether it was with his cognisance and approval that assistance was given last autumn by certain Government Departments to certain Russians in the preparation of imitations of a Moscow newspaper for use in propaganda in Russia against the Government of the Russian Soviet Republic; whether he knew at the time of his conversations with M. Kameneff that British officials were being employed and British public money expended on such propaganda; and whether the conduct of such propaganda is still part of the policy of the Government?Mr. MYERS
53. 1988 asked the Chief Secretary whether Mr. Sean McGrath, secretary of the Irish Self-Determination League, has been arrested in London and
1988Mr. MYERS
: I am suggesting that 40s. a week, which is proposed as the point at which claims can be made for unemployed benefit, is an altogether inadequate and arbitrary figure and I am comparing it with the fact that the right hon. Baronet may take the opposite view because his experience comes close up with the facts I have indicated. Also I think the argument used by the hon. Member (Mr. Hopkinson) is one that ought not to enter into a discussion of this character. I believe the term "doles" has been used in days gone by as a sort of stigma.Mr. MYERS
2090: On numerous occasions during the last few days we have heard it argued that the continued payment of unemployment benefit is uneconomic in its effect, and on that point we agree with the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Banbury). We have asserted in season and out of season that it would be far better to utilise national expenditure in reproductive work than to apply it to the payment of what have been termed "doles." But when we present that point of view we run up against the hostility of the right hon. Baronet from another point of view. If we urge that the State should put into operation work of a reproductive character, and organise labour on that work, we are at once met with the opposition of the right hon. Baronet and his friends that we are encroaching upon the preserves of private enterprise in a direction which we ought not to. While we are very definite upon this attitude, and say reproductive work should be instituted, we claim that so long as that is not done the employed workman has a claim upon the community, and the contribution that he makes is the basis of the claim that he has upon the Unemployment Insurance Fund, and to limit his income to 40s. a week, and if it exceeds that amount to put a person out of benefit on that account, is an altogether unfair position to take up, because in these days 40s. a week income in an ordinary working-class family is not very far removed from the poverty line, and to put an arbitrary sum of that character will not enable the working-class population to maintain themselves in that standard of efficiency that they are entitled to. I can quite understand the right hon. hon. Baronet considering that 40s. is quite sufficient in these days. It is notorious that the industrial connection with which he is associated up to a year or two ago was one of the lowest paid industries in the country. There were scores of thousands of people working on the railways at somewhere in the neighbourhood of 17s.
2090Mr. MYERS
: While Mr. Speaker was in the Chair we had the philosophy of the Noble Lord (Earl Winterton) and the economics of the hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Oman), and I can quite see that if the House accepts a combination of those two things, hon. Members opposite may well go astray, and we will take no responsibility for their going astray if they do, but blame the economics of the hon. Member (Mr. Hopkinson) and the philosophy of the Noble Lord (Earl Winterton). I shall oppose the Amendment on the ground that it attempts to express a tendency which finds favour in this House and in another place that the one line of attack which is to be made in this exceptional crisis of our country's history is always upon the worker and his standard of subsistence.Mr. MYERS
: I will accept the correction. The expression "doles" has been used to indicate the taking of this benefit and the term "dole," or Poor Law relief, is used for the express purpose of conveying a stigma upon the individual who holds his hand out for this benefit. But the ordinary worker contributes the larger proportion of this sum and it is a mutual arrangement between him and the employer. It hardly comes within the category of what is expressed by the hon. Member. It has, I know, upset the feeling of some hon. Members that we are ready to accept the declaration that is put upon us by hon. Members, and the fact that we are willing to give expression ourselves to the same term has rather unsettled those who wanted to apply that scheme to the industrial workers. The whole discussion surrounding this matter is an indication of the temper of the House upon these matters which are moving in the direction of bringing wages down. What does it matter to the workers what the wages are if they bring an adequate standard of life? Therefore while the tendency is for wages to come down, those organisations which are working in the direction of artificially maintaining prices—Mr. MYERS
56. 1998 asked the Chief Secretary the number of hackney motor licences in the Aughnacloy police district which have been refused renewal by the competent military authority owing to the district inspector's carelessness in making his reports on same; is he aware that great hardship has been caused by this carelessness, many families being deprived for weeks of their means of subsistence;
1998Mr. W. COOTE
27.  asked the Prime Minister whether he will appoint a Select Committee to examine and report upon the great inequalities of the incidence of local rates, with power to make such recommendations as may seem desirable in the basis, method of assessment, and collection of local taxation as well as the reallocation of rating areas?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman in giving consideration to this matter take into account that the last Royal Commission on this subject is 20 years old and that local authorities are getting more and more restive now owing to the gross inequalities of rates and rateable value in the various areas, and in view of the tremendous rise in rates this year it is really a very urgent question from the point of view of local authorities generally?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Did not the Secretary of State for India inform me yesterday that the Government of India had not assented to the transfer to the Colonial Office, and that the matter was still under consideration at Delhi?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: Has the time not yet arrived when the right hon. Gentleman can definitely inform the House under what control this irregular body of auxiliaries are—whether they are under the military or the police, or any control?Captain REDMOND
: May I ask who are the authorities in this case—whether this body of auxiliaries are under the control of the military or of the police authorities?Captain REDMOND
: Is the Prime Minister going to make a statement some time to-day with regard to the conference which is now taking place?Mr. W. THORNE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman consider the desirability of meeting at 12 mid-day, instead of suspending the Eleven o'clock Rule.Mr. W. THORNE
: May I ask the Minister of Labour one question. Assuming a man or woman was insured under the old Act, when they have exhausted the ninety days, will they be entitled to another eight weeks between then and July, and then another six weeks between July and June, 1921?Mr. W. THORNE
2004: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that a large number of men and women cannot find work and are not entitled to benefit under the Unemployed Workers Act, and is he aware that boards of guardians in many parts of the country are absolutely compelled to give relief in moneys and in kind for the purpose of keeping these people alive?
2004Mr. W. THORNE
40. 2003 asked the Prime Minister if he is aware that the West Ham Board of Guardians have protested against the neglect of the Government to provide for the unemployed, in conse-
2003Mr. W. THORNE
61.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the press of work at the Mint, which he declares to be the cause of the defective execution of the new silver coinage, is caused by an attempt to produce that coinage in haste; and whether there is any economic necessity for that haste since the fall in the value of silver to its present low figure?Sir C. OMAN
: Does the absence of good steel for the dies—which in many cases have cracked, and give an impression on only part of the new coins—have any effect on the other fault of this new coinage, which is owing to the want od skill in the gentleman who compose the base alloy? The surface flakes off in large patches. I have in my hand at the present moment a half-crown—Sir C. OMAN
: An inch of fact is worth an ell of theory and a mile of rhetoric. I just want to keep the House for two minutes to give an example of what this fetish of nobody accepting wages smaller than the highest he has had in the War means in a certain industry with which I am acquainted. For many years the 25 colleges of Oxford bound all their foreign books, thousands of them. The result was a great many binders were employed. During the War the price of binding, but still more, the wages of the binders, went up to a high pitch. The point was reached when the colleges, which are no better off than they were before the War—indeed, they are worse off, because their members are still paid on the scale reached in 1880, with no bonus or addition since that time—found themselves absolutely unable to continue the practice of binding their foreign books. Appeals have been made to the bookbinding fraternity, but they say wages cannot come down. The result is that at the present moment books are going unbound on to the shelves which at any time during the last 50 years would have been bound. The result is that bookbinders are beginning to be discharged. We are very sorry for it, but it is not our fault. Is there any possible way out of this little deadlock except a reduction of wages? I see no other way. I feel I must vote with the right hon. Baronet the Member for the City of London on the general theory that this fetish of maintaining the highest wage paid during the War cannot be defended.Sir C. OMAN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman give us the number of his staff on the housing question compared with the number of workmen employed on the same houses?Mr. A. L. PARKINSON
2162: I have not got the number of workmen employed on the houses, and I do not know that it would be a very good comparison, because while you are working out and laying out schemes and negotiating with local authorities preparing sites, you are employing relatively more people on your staff and technical side than you do when your scheme is fully settled and organised and the job is going on. I can get the infor-
2162Sir A. MOND
: None of this staff has anything at all to do with the houses, which form a very small part of the Department's work. This staff is connected with the other work of the Department, largely engineering work, which is very considerable. The cost of living is coming down, but these people have had this money paid to them during the time that the cost of living has been rising. This is not future money but past, and therefore this money is equivalent to the rises which have been given by every employer in the country, owing to the increased cost of living. I do not think the Government Departments are as good employers on the whole as the best private employers, and this amount here is much lower than what I should call an adequate scale, but it is an attempt to meet the great hardship on the lower scale officials owing to the rise in the cost of living.Sir A. MOND
: No. It was my last wish to say anything derogatory to local architects. I said there might be cases in which the local authorities could not get a local architect and had to employ one from London.Sir A. MOND
2160: The amount is £4,000. These 116 houses are only the completed ones, but there are 3,736 houses in the schemes of which 1,335 are commenced, so the £4,000 must not be spread over the 116 houses. The 116 houses are at Camberwell and the travelling expenses from my office to Camberwell do not amount to £4,000 or 4,000 shillings. But we have got schemes going all over the country. We have got to negotiate with local authorities. But the number of houses concerned is double the figure mentioned. There are 3,700 houses actually settled and there are 3,700 houses in negotiation. Surely somebody must go see the sites and make all the necessary arrangements as to supervision. It is a large organisation. The hon. Gentleman asked whether all the officials travelled first-class. Certainly not. The question what class an official travels is not settled by me. The point if it is to be raised should not be raised on this Vote, because it is a general matter. The £4,000 is for last year and is spread over all these houses. The right hon. Gentleman
2160Sir A. MOND
: The right hon. Gentleman ought not to make an observation of that kind. Supposing some corporation or other local authority in the country has the sense to employ a great architect from London instead of an incompetent local person. That corporation would have to pay the expenses of the London architect and it would save a lot of money in the end.Sir A. MOND
: I thought that there had been two increases in the period. One hon. Gentleman has objected to the £17,000. That £17,000 will come off the £44,000 and the money will automatically come back because I refuse to do any building unless I am certain that the money is coming back. My right hon. Friend seems to fear that nearly every local authority in the country is going to be bankrupt. I will not undertake any work for a local authority which is going to be bankrupt. My money is coming back. Then my right hon. Friend has drawn a gloomy picture of the bankruptcy of these local authorities he is connected with. So far as payment is concerned, I am going to see and I have seen up to now that this money will return. The whole point on this Vote is very simple, but nobody has tackled it. It is not whether or not it is necessary to have a staff. Obviously a staff is necessary. It is whether, with the staff which I have got, the amount of money which I propose to spend upon particular schemes on overhead charges is an unreasonable amount. It is no use hon. Members coming here and saying, "I have pldged myself to my constituents that I will vote against the Government on all possible occasions when an Estimate is brought up." That is, of course, a phrase which sounds nice on a platform.Sir A. MOND
2159: It was because of the increased burdens thrown upon my Department. All sorts of additional work was put upon us, including the equipment of factories, training centres for the Ministry of Labour for ex-service men, the building of cottages for the Ministry of Agriculture's settlements for ex-soldiers, and so on. These and a very large number of services have been thrown on my Department since the War, so that in reality our work has gone up and not down, and that we have had to estimate for. This question of housing, so far as we are concerned, was only settled last autumn, and all this work had to be done and the staff had to be created. I have said that this is a recoverable service and it is
2159Sir A. MOND
2161: If you sanction schemes you must sanction the payment of people to carry out those schemes. Nothing is more undesirable than an unnecessary bureaucracy. I am not pleading for an unnecessary staff, but for a staff—I am certain of my facts—which is smaller than that required for the work, a staff which is now overworked. If I were to produce
2161Sir A. MOND
2158: My chief difficulty in replying to the criticisms which have been made, is that hon. Members did not recognise the Vote they were discussing. All kinds of figures, which I have not been able to connect with anything on the Paper, have been produced, and all kinds of statements have been made, which showed that my first explanation appeared to be either not understood or incomprehensible. After I had carefully explained that Sub-head B, £26,000 arising out of the cost of living, technical staff, had nothing to do with housing, the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Banbury) tried to fix it on to 116 houses which happen to be completed. I really have given up endeavouring ever to explain Estimates again. These Estimates are not really as difficult as hon. Members seem to think. There is no great complication about them. They are divided into two items. One is £44,000 for housing. This House passed a larger Vote for my Department to undertake housing schemes. Housing schemes cannot be undertaken without staff; one is the logical consequence of the other. It would be an absurd waste of money to carry on housing schemes with the aid of an inefficient staff. When my Department was asked by the Cabinet to undertake this work I stipulated that I should be allowed a staff sufficient and efficient for the work. I have had enough to do with large industrial concerns to know perfectly well that if I am asked to carry out such complicated work as housing by direct labour
2158Sir A. MOND
: I do not think the hon. Member ought to say that.Sir A. MOND
: On a point of Order. We are surely not discussing the main Estimates.Sir A. MOND
: I hope the right hon. Gentleman does not suggest that my journeys there were paid for out of public funds.Sir A. MOND
: Only £4,000 out of the £10,000 is for the new service, and the other is for the old service.Sir A. MOND
: Not a new service, but a new staff.Sir A. MOND
: I would not like to be definite, but I think the money has been authorised by the Treasury and has been paid. The Civil Service bonus was agreed to and has been paid during the past year. It is really an accidental technical point in my Department that this class of officer did not come under the war bonus award of the Civil Service generally. The only other item to which I will draw attention relates to railway travelling. Having a large number of building schemes in progress in different parts of the country a very considerable amount of travelling is involved. £6,000 of the £10,000 represents the increased cost of railway fares and subsistence allowance for the general office staff. It arises as a Supplementary Estimate because railway fares were increased during the year, and we could not anticipate that increase when the original Estimate was framed.Sir A. MOND
2138: It will perhaps be for the convenience of the Committee if I explain how this Supplementary Estimate comes to be put forward. Hon. Members will observe that the Estimate is divided into two parts. There is a sum of £44,000 which becomes necessary to provide the staff consequent upon the housing schemes which my Department is undertaking for local authorities. I wish to make it quite clear that although the sum appears to be chargeable to the taxpayer, it is in reality recoverable. The whole of this expenditure is being charged to the schemes which we are carrying out, and as the schemes are completed the whole of the amount will be returned as appropriations-in-aid, and hardly any charge at all will fall upon the Imperial taxes. If hon. Members will look at the foot of page 16, par. D, they will see that we are taking for this financial year £17,000 as an appropriation-in-aid on this Account. The reason why this amount is not the full amount is that in the preliminary stages of the carrying out of these schemes a large amount of work of a technical character is required, and it becomes chargeable only as the schemes go on. It is really in the nature of an overhead charge on the various schemes. The second sum under Sub-head A, namely, £26,000, arises, owing to the increased cost of living, and owing to the fact that a very considerable proportion of the temporary technical staff in my Department do not share in the war bonus which is paid to Civil ser-
2138The FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (Sir Alfred Mond)
: I am sure the right hon. Gentleman does not want to misrepresent the position, but the £44,000 is for new services and new staff.Sir A. MOND
: £26,000 is for people who received no share of the bonus.Sir A. MOND
: They were war bonuses.Sir A. M0ND
2153: The right hon. Baronet the Member for the City of London (Sir F. Banbury) is generally a consistent economist, but he has lost his reputation this week. Only a night or two ago we heard him pleading for £21,000,000 to be paid to the railway companies, of one of which he is chairman, while to-day he is condemning us for supporting a Vote of this sort. His consistency; to my mind, has fallen to the ground. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Peebles (Sir D. MacLean) has been inquiring where this money is
2153Mr. CHARLES EDWARDS
: I am quite aware of that. I know the Government brought in the Vote. There was opposition to it, as there is to this Vote, and the right hon. Baronet supported the Government, and did a bit of special pleading in order to induce the Opposition to agree with his point of view. As far as travelling expenses are concerned, we want them kept down to the lowest possible limits. We have no interest in spending more than ought to be spent, either on travelling or on subsistence allowances, because it is our own people who suffer in the long run. The money has eventually to come out of their pockets, and therefore we hold that there should be the strictest supervision over all this expenditure. The real point of this attack, however, is to be found in the fact that the Office of Works are carrying through these undertakings, and that some private contractor is not getting any profit out of them. We heard a few weeks ago a very important speech by the Minister who brought in this Vote, and he gave certain figures and comparisons which told badly against the private contractor. It is for that reason we support this Vote. We believe the work can be better done in this way. Our experience indeed tells us it can be better done by these means than by private contractors. The latter are really fighting for their existence, and, as far as members of this House are concerned, they occupy no doubt the stronger position. I repeat, we support this Vote, holding at the same time that travelling and other expenses should be kept within the lowest possible limits. I believe that building can be done better by direct labour, by the guild system or any other system, than it can by private, enterprise.Mr. EDWARDS
2127: The right hon. Baronet who has just spoken has the reputation of being the greatest economist in the House, but I am afraid his armour is not exactly proof, and we have instances where there are limitations to his economical principles or proclivities. We had it the other day when it came to a question of payments to the railways, under their claims, and we have it now as soon as he realises that the broker is a city man who perhaps comes within the ambit of his particular associations in the city. I am sorry he can make any exceptions at all, and I would be much more pleased if he had held to his original speech and moved a reduction in both items. I am all in favour of paying men an adequate wage, but I object to this piecemeal and individualistic way of paying certain salaries. I presume, in addition to his salary, this gentleman would receive a war bonus. If there is any ground of hardship, on account of the cost of living, that would be compensated for by means of a bonus. Why should this salary be increased for this particular individual, if his predecessor was supposed to be sufficiently remunerated by a salary he then received? There are innumerable cases of inadequate salary. We have a scandalous instance in the case of High Court Judges, and a still more scandalous instance in the case of Members of Parliament, and these injus-
2127Major ENTWISTLE
2081: This proposed change absolutely destroys the
2081Mr. BARTLEY DENNISS
2092: I should not have intervened if it had not been for the phrase used by the hon. Member (Mr. Hopkinson) that this payment which had to be made was in the nature of Poor Law relief. The whole object of the Act has been to remove the payment from any stigma of the Poor Law. It is a contributory insurance. It is a payment which is enforced by law. It is true that the contributions come from three sources, but it is obligatory upon all three. Therefore it is entirely removed from the nature of Poor Law relief. I cannot imagine the common sense of the argument that such a term can reasonably be used at all. The argument put forward by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Clynes) seemed to me to be absolutely unanswerable. Here you have a case which is really a case of contract. Here is a man who has made his payment, with the help of the employer and the State, and has contracted to receive, when he is out of employment, that which the Act entitled him to have, and I am surprised when I find the right hon. Baronet, the invariable and effective champion of the rights of contract, can be found to suggest that in a case of this kind a man is not entitled to that which he has contracted to have by the payment which he has made. I
2092Sir E. HUME-WILLIAMS
21512150: The Committee is showing a wise instinct in looking into this matter carefully, even if it be true that the money or some of it is to be, recovered from the ratepayers, because we should be as jealous of burdens put upon us as ratepayers as of those put upon us as taxpayers. The view taken by an hon. Member is the right one, that these burdens will come back in a few years on the taxpayers directly, and therefore it is our business, although it is going to be recovered in the first instance by charges on local authorities. I am rather surprised at the callousness of a hon. Friend of mine behind me for one of the Divisions of Monmouthshire as to the effect of these figures on the ratepayers. He said, as a shot, without referring to the documents, that he would hazard that the increase in rates from his county, comparing now and 1913–14, was about 95 per cent. I have had the opportunity of looking it up, and I find that the average of the urban districts in Monmouthshire is actually 125 per cent., so my hon. Friend gravely understated it
21512150Mr. ACLAND
: If that be so, why were there very large increases made in this Estimate?Mr. ACLAND
: Will a copy of this Act be laid on the Table?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: I have a question down. May I press for an answer? Surely registration is just as efficacious as a subsidy.Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Have the Government yet received any dividends on these shares?Sir H. BRITTAIN
114.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether, seeing that a register of motor lorries would be as effective and far more economical than the subsidy as at present proposed, he will reconsider the matter?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Who is in command of this force?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Would it not be possible to put a little more humanity into the replies of this Department? There is something very curt and heartless about an official negative.Sir H. BRITTAIN
21562155versus: We have just listened to a very interesting speech, but we all know that the bed rock that underlies it is the principle of general collectivism 21562155versusSir H. NIELD
: The right hon. Gentleman has perverted my statement. I said I was pledged to vote against the increase of bureaucracy. I do not care what bureaucracy it is. I have never opposed an Estimate where it was a genuine expenditure which could not be prevented, but I am, and always will be, the deadly foe of an increase of bureaucrats or an increase of their remuneration.Sir H. NIELD
2110: It is strange that I should find myself in agreement with the hon. Member who has just sat down. I think we are suffering from the sins of the past generation, from want of consideration, sympathy and of a proper appreciation that, after all, those who help use in our households are our fellow-creatures. Those of us who know how to treat our maids have the privilege of being able to keep them for long periods of years, and that is the very best illustration of the manner in which they are treated. There are, however, other things that militate against them. I know of a case where very great struggles were made by the parents to educate the elder girl as a teacher. This has operated on the other members of the family, because of the standard of comfort as a pupil
2110Sir H. NIELD
: I am much obliged, and I shall reserve my general observations on that point. It has been a subject of questions from time to time, to which I have had very unsatisfactory answers. I protest vigorously against the salaries of the higher civil servants being advanced at this time by such large sums as these. It seems to me that these gentlemen really have been protected all through the War from suffering the common burdens. I speak on behalf of a very large community of pensioned civil servants who have returned to this country, particularly from India, who have limited pensions governed by the value of the rupee, who are suffering from all the increases in the cost of living, and who are obliged to keep up a certain standard of comfort as best they can, and I am sure that the stories that I could tell the House of the deprivations that these people undergo would form as harrowing a tale as anything told during the last week in relation to unemployment. They are suffering in silence, and I protest on their behalf against these increases. And not only these, but increases extending to other services throughout the country, the municipal service and even non-municipal bodies, who have been egged on to adopt certain provisions. I say it is wrong that this House should permit at this time, while taxation is so severe, increases of this sort without the strongest possible case being made out in support of them. I have always done my best to support the Government, but I will not support them in these increases which are removing burdens from a certain class of the community and putting them on those least able to bear them.Sir H. NIELD
: I would like to join in that appeal. I am not at all sure how far we would be in order in discussing the question of the Civil Service bonus.Sir H. NIELD
: Or war bonus.Sir H. NIELD
bonâ fide: I think the point raised by the right hon. Member for Chelmsford (Mr. Pretyman) is an exceedingly important one in the interests of the taxpayer. Supposing we have a manager who, by inadvertence or otherwise, constantly decides in favour of the applicant and gives him unemployment insurance pay when the man is not really entitled to it. There is no appeal provided for by the Act in that case. Supposing a private individual hears that a man who was in his employment and who has left of his own accord has got unemployment pay, and he makes representations to the manager that the man ought not to receive the pay, the manager may say, "I know better, and I will pay no attention to your view." In that case has the Minister any real power or not? Suppose the case is brought to the attention of the Minister and the right hon. Gentleman thinks it is a bonâ fideSir J. BUTCHER
: Am I right in supposing that in the rebellion of 1916 some 300 of our soldiers were murdered, and only 15 executions at most?Sir J. BUTCHER
10. 1985 asked the Chief Secretary whether his attention has been called to the fact that, owing to the operation of Part II of the Schedule to the Pensions (Increase) Act, 1920, many pensioners of the Royal Irish Constabulary with small pensions are being deprived of the increase of pension which they would otherwise receive under that Act; whether, for instance, he is aware that a Royal Irish Constabulary man who retired on account of physical infirmity in 1917
1985Sir JOHN BUTCHER
: Will my right hon. Friend then bring in a Bill?Sir J. BUTCHER
: May I call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the extremely hard cases that have arisen under the operation of this Act, and especially Part 2 of the Schedule; and will he ask the Treasury to provide the money or bring in a Bill to amend that Act?Sir J. BUTCHER
51.  asked the Chief Secretary whether, in view of the small pensions and very straitened circumstances of many pensioners of the Royal Irish Constabulary and the difficulty they have in getting employment of any sort, he will, as soon as possible, introduce a Bill to amend the Pensions Increase Act, 1920, on the lines urged on him by a deputation of these pensioners on 8th July, 1920; whether such Amendments will include the abolition of the age limit of 60 years, the elimination of earned and unearned income, and a reasonable increase of pension; and whether he has urged the Treasury to agree to such Amendments, and with what result?Sir J. BUTCHER
: Does not the right hon. Gentleman realise that many of these faithful servants of the Crown are in a state of extreme penury—worse, many of them, than those who are in receipt of unemployment pay in this country?Sir J. BUTCHER
2076: I do not think anyone could possibly have listened to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman for Miles Platting (Mr. Clynes) without a very great deal of sympathy. I, at any rate, listened to it with the greatest possible respect, as I always do listen to his speeches. I entirely appreciate his point of view, and I think he put forward an exceedingly strong case in support of it, but, while I have said that I wish also to say that I do very much hope that the Government will lend an ear to those who desire to support the Lords Amendment on this point, and for this reason: I also speak as one who is in no sense a large employer of labour, but I feel that in this Amendment the Lords hare gone to the very heart and root of the economic and industrial situation by which we are confronted at the present moment. The views put forward by the right hon. Member for Miles Platting were theoretical views with which one cannot possibly disagree in theory, but the Lords, on the other hand, have put forward the practical views of the industrial situation. What is the heart of the industrial situation? My right hon. Friend the Member for Miles Platting spoke of influences which are making for a reduction of wages. These influences are really irresistible. They are quite irrespective of any opinion of the Members of the other House, or, as a matter of fact, of the opinion of any of the Members of this House. The influences which at the present moment are primarily making for a reduction of wages, or rather of the cost of labour—for I draw a very clear
2076Mr. MARRIOTT
: I do not suggest they ever do anything else, but I would beg them to reconsider this very seriously from the point of view of the realities of the economic situation. My belief is that if they will look at it from that point of view, and not from the theoretical point of view, they will be the first to give support to this Amendment.Mr. MARRIOTT
: Yes, that is another point. It was also a question last night whether these are intended to be permanent increases of salary or whether they are intended to be in the nature of a bonus. But in either case, I desire at this stage very strongly to protest against them. I think it is mere hypocrisy on the part of Member of this House to say what we have been saying at an early part of the afternoon unless we are prepared to carry out the principle as far as public servants are concerned. I do not know whether it is the case or not that these salaries form part of a general increase, but I can assure the Financial Secretary that if he would be good enough to give an answer to the question which I vainly put last night, and which I put again to-night, he would save a good deal of time as far as subsequent Supplementary Estimates are concerned.Mr. MARRIOTT
: I merely wish to repeat a question to which I did not get, as far as I know, an answer last night. I observe that in the Vote we are now considering there are increases of salary of a very considerable amount to two relatively highly placed officials in the National Debt Office. What I want to know is this, whether these increases of £500 a year to the Controller-General and to the broker are isolated cases, or whether they are parts of a general increase of salaries all round the higher divisions of the Civil Service.Mr. MARRIOTT
2123: Before the right hon. Gentleman sits down might I ask him whether he will deal with the point I
2123Mr. MARRIOTT
: It is permanent as regards the present holder?Mr. MARRIOTT
: What I wanted to ascertain was this. Whether this increase, although a personal one to the Controller, is part of a general increase in the salaries of Civil servants all round England, or whether it is peculiar to the Vote which we are discussing to-night?Mr. MARRIOTT
44.  asked the Prime Minister if his attention has been, drawn to an appeal by the American Federation of Labour to organised labour in this and other countries to unite against the ruthless persecution and slaughter of labour unionists in Russia; and will he await the result of this appeal before committing this country to any course which would imply recognition of the Soviet Government, against which organised labour in Russia is in revolt, so far as is possible under the circumstances which exist there?Mr. PENNEFATHER
 asked the Minister of Labour whether his attention has been drawn to the hard case of many Liverpool dock labourers, who have been reduced to a state of semi-starvation through the postponement of out-of-work pay due on Friday last, and, if so, will he take immediate steps to alleviate this distress, and to ensure that no similar delays occur in future?by Private NoticeMr. PENNEFATHER
: I have been asked to reply. I am aware that there has been activity in the printing trade in Russia. As regards the second part of the question, the remedies afforded by Section 6, 11 and 14 of the Copyright Act, 1911, are thought to be sufficient to prevent the dumping of such plays and novels in the United Kingdom.The PRESIDENT of the BOARD of TRADE (Sir Robert Horne)
4.  asked the Minister of Pensions whether, under the regulations of the Special Grants Committee, supplementary pensions and allowances can only be granted to non-relatives in charge of orphans or neglected children of deceased ex-service men; and, if so, whether the regulations can be amended in order that the same benefits may also be granted to relatives in cases where the Local War Pensions Committees consider it would be in the interest of the children that this should be done?Sir ROBERT NEWMAN
17.  asked the Chief Secretary whether there was any evidence of the use of incendiary bombs in connection with the burning of Cork; and whether any such bombs are issued to, or are in the possession of any, Forces of the Crown in Ireland?Captain Viscount CURZON
62.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer how many shares the British Government now holds in the Anglo-Persian Oil Company; what is the-present value of the shares; for how long the Government will retain this holding in shares; if it is the intention of the Government to dispose of the shares in any way; and, if so, what action they propose to take?Viscount CURZON
: Is not registration already provided for under the Motor Car Act?Viscount CURZON
: Might I point out the inconvenience of the course which the right hon. Gentleman is taking. He is explaining each Amendment now, instead of giving us an opportunity of debating them on their merits as they come on? It means a much longer debate in explaining them twice over.Earl WINTERTON
: I quite understand that, but it means the right hon. Gentleman speaking again.Earl WINTERTON
20752074: The Members of the Labour party are rather inclined to get indignant when anything is said contrary to their views. I am not attacking the hon. Member opposite, but the statement has been made here and outside, and it is important that there ought to be some Commission to inquire into the question whether it is a fact that there are young people who are willing to foster the continuance of trade depression caused in many cases by the high rate of wages, because personally they are contented with what they can get out of the State in unemployment benefit. I am sure Members of the Labour party would be the first to recognise the seriousness of that statement, and if it is true it must mean the complete end of the supremacy of British industries. A statement of that nature is so disturbing that I want to press unon the Government the necessity of having the question investigated. That is just the principle of this Amendment.20752074Earl WINTERTON
2073: There is no doubt whatever that this is a most important matter, and I am rather glad that there has been an opportunity of discussing it. We have had a most interesting speech from the Leader of the Labour Party (Mr. Clynes), and we have had a most sincere and carefully thought-out speech from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the City of London (Sir F. Banbury). Speaking as one who does not happen to be a large employer, I wish to protest against any suggestion that these matters can be settled solely as between employers of labour and labour and those who represent them in this House. The public as a whole has a right to interest themselves in this case. I hope more of those who are neither employers of labour nor direct representatives of organised labour will take part in this Debate, because the people of the country as a whole are just as much interested as labour.2073Earl WINTERTON
: The hon. Gentleman waived his hand in my direction. I suppose therefore he includes me. May I say that is the very reason I supported the Government.Earl WINTERTON
: At any rate I did not ignore that principle, on the contrary, I agree with it, and that is why I am supporting the Government.Earl WINTERTON
: Remember Woolwich, and do not try to bully us.Earl WINTERTON
: I have accepted the only Amendment that has been put forward, to add words at the end of the Question, and I cannot now go back.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
2176: If I had not been a Member of this House for 16 years, I should feel inclined to vote for the Amendment, but I know that if you make a limit of time, whether you make
2176Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
"has been that whilst our wages bill for 1913 amounted to some £120,000, for last year the amount paid was nearly half a million. It may be interesting perhaps to have a few instances given to you showing how far-reaching these changes have been. We estimate that the eight-hours days alone has cost us some £70,000 per annum. A signal box which cost us 21s. per week to work in 1914 now costs us 134s. 6d. per week. Another signal box which cost 17s. per week now costs 133s. per week. At another station wages amounting to 73s. per week have risen to 311s. 6d. per week.""The result to us"—2168"I say it is simply not true. If that is the explanation, why was not that said?"—
2168"A signal box man who earned 21s. in 1914, now obtained 134s. 6d. per week, and in another case a man who earned 17s. a week, now received 133s. a week.": I desire to make a personal statement with reference to a speech made by my right hon. Friend the Member for Derby (Mr. Thomas) in Monday's Debate on Supply, when, owing to a long-standing engagement in my constituency, I was unable to be present. My right hon. Friend, as reported in the OFFICIAL REPORT, said that in a speech at the annual meeting of the Cambrian Railway Company I informed the shareholders that
"has been that whilst our wages bill for 1913 amounted to some £120,000, for last year the amount paid was nearly half a million. It may be interesting perhaps to have a few instances given to you showing how far-reaching these changes have been. We estimate that the eight-hours days alone has cost us some £70,000 per annum. A signal box which cost us 21s. per week to work in 1914 now costs us 134s. 6d. per week. Another signal box which cost 17s. per week now costs 133s. per week. At another station wages amounting to 73s. per week have risen to 311s. 6d. per week.""The result to us"—2168"I say it is simply not true. If that is the explanation, why was not that said?"—
2168"A signal box man who earned 21s. in 1914, now obtained 134s. 6d. per week, and in another case a man who earned 17s. a week, now received 133s. a week."Major DAVID DAVIES
2177: If this Motion does not prevent the Irish Members from moving an Adjournment every day on a "definite matter of urgent public importance," and they can get every day from 8.15 to 11 o'clock, I think that the Resolution is not sufficiently stringent. When a discussion on a Supplementary Estimate has lasted for about an hour there is no reason for continuing the discussion. It is not worth a pail full of cold water. It is mere party tactics on one side or the other and of no real benefit to the nation. If, therefore, the Resolution is so drafted that these extraneous matters can be moved day after day the whole object of the Resolution is defeated. You will be obliged to have all-night Sittings if you are to discuss your Supplementary Estimates at all. In reference to the suggestion of the hon. Member for West Ham, my experience is that we have more often got home at something like 9 or 10 when it has been understood that the whole time is at the disposal of the Government. We have been able to many hours at home which otherwise we should not have got through such Motions as this. This is a Motion for shortening the working day of Parliament, and if matters
2177Lieut.-Colonel WARD
: Does the hon. Member ask me that question?Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: The House could no doubt cut short its Debate on the ordinary business, if such matter arose, and then there would be the time up to 11.30 p.m.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
2196"The extent of these claims may be enormous. It is evident that these claims of the railway companies will be increased or diminished according as the measures taken by Parliament in the next Session prove to be more or less adequate for our needs. Therefore, the claims will not be formulated until the nature and effect of those measures is fully known."219521942193219221912190: When the Debate took place on the Supplementary Estimates, on which this Bill is founded, the Leader of the House made an appeal to one of my hon. Friends on this side that the discussion might be closed, as there would be two further opportunities of discussing this Bill—one on the Report stage, and one on the Consolidated Fund Bill. The Report stage, I think, was taken rather unexpectedly, and the Consolidated Fund Bill was introduced without a word. There was some misunderstanding between myself and the right hon. Gentleman, and I did not anticipate he was going to speak with such brevity that he was not going to speak at all, and the Bill passed the Second Reading without any comment. This is the last opportunity, therefore, of raising one or two very substantial points on a Bill affecting a very substantial sum. We are passing a Bill this afternoon which takes a sum of £21,000,000 out of funds raised by a levy upon the general body of taxpayers in this country, and we are doing that for the purpose of passing it over to a comparatively small number of persons who are the owners of the railways in this country. A transaction of that kind must always, and very properly, meet with comment and with consideration in this House, and there is no body of opinion in this House which is more critical of anything in the nature of a subsidy or a dole than the hon. Members who form the body of supporters of this Government. So I am quite sure they will not feel I am in any way departing from what is their normal practice by directing the attention of the House on this, the last possible opportunity, to what is taking place.2196"The extent of these claims may be enormous. It is evident that these claims of the railway companies will be increased or diminished according as the measures taken by Parliament in the next Session prove to be more or less adequate for our needs. Therefore, the claims will not be formulated until the nature and effect of those measures is fully known."219521942193219221912190Major BARNES
: The hon. Member is now going on to discuss legislation. We are only concerned now with a Supplementary Estimate.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I would be glad if the right hon. Gentleman would explain what is meant by Prize Cases. I would like an explanation of the technical position, as I am not quite certain what these cases are.Lieut. - Commander WILLIAMS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say what are the Prize cases?Lieut.-Commander WILLIAMS
: Why is it that in some cases you can put the costs of the proceedings in these Prize Courts on the enemy firm, and in other cases, apparently, you take it out—Lieut.-Commander WILLIAMS
: This is getting too technical. The hon. and gallant Gentleman is dealing with the procedure of the Law Courts now.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: In this Estimate there is the usual note about war bonus amounting to over £20,000 on a salary estimate of £83,800. You recollect that when we discussed Vote 2 (A), page 10, the salary of a Minister without Portfolio, I raised the question then about this war bonus. In that case it amounted to £3,700 on an estimated salary of £34,000, and further you pointed out to us that we were able to discuss the Vote for war bonus on page 36, "Unclassified Services, 20," where there is a war bonus on £12,650,000. When we come to discuss the war bonus, shall we be able to go right back and discuss its allocation on all these Votes? I cannot understand how it is that in this particular Vote the bonus comes out at a very big figure, £20,000, nearly a fourth of the whole, whereas the unfortunate people under the Minister without Portfolio get only about one-eighth. How does that come about, and who is to answer the question? Is it to be deferred until we get the war bonus Vote, and, if it is, shall I be entitled to go right back and ask the various Departments if they have been diligent in getting their seven-twenty-sixths?Colonel NEWMAN
: I may not be in the Chair when the Vote in the unclassified services dealing with the war bonus comes under consideration, but I take it that when that matter is under discussion the only question will be whether the Committee will grant the Supplementary Estimate. If it does, the Treasury will have the money to deal with, and, if it does not, the Treasury will not have the money. It would not be in order to go back to the Votes passed, and discuss the allocation of the money. Nor is it in order, as I said yesterday, upon each of these Supplementary Estimates to discuss the policy of the war bonus, though the amounts are given for the information of Members.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
"Provision for further increase from 1st March, 1921, of 2/26th (making 7/26ths in all) in the rate of bonus payable from 1st March, 1920, in accordance with the scheme approved for the Civil Service, subject for payment of rates of bonus fluctuating with increases and decreases in the cost of living.": Might I definitely ask this question? Why is the War bonus in the case of the Land Registry officials so much higher than in the case of the officials of the Minister without Portfolio? In going through the different Votes, I find the same discrepancy, though apparently the bonus is given in a systematic way. The Vote for the bonus says:
"Provision for further increase from 1st March, 1921, of 2/26th (making 7/26ths in all) in the rate of bonus payable from 1st March, 1920, in accordance with the scheme approved for the Civil Service, subject for payment of rates of bonus fluctuating with increases and decreases in the cost of living."Colonel NEWMAN
: I do not know what the right hon. and gallant Gentleman is reading.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Page 36.Colonel NEWMAN
: We are not on page 36; we are only on page 19.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Can I have the information?Colonel NEWMAN
: As I understand it, a Supplementary Estimate may be asked for an increase of £200 on a salary of £1,000, making it £1,200, and at the same time the same official may receive £200 war bonus, making the total £1,400. That seems to me proper and essential information for the Committee to have without discussing the policy of the war bonus. Without knowing that £200 war bonus is paid, the Committee would not have all the facts. When we come to the unclassified services the question of the war bonus will be open for discussion, but I do not think the Committee can discuss the bonus piecemeal simply because of the fact that it is brought to its notice that certain sums for war bonus are included in the different Votes.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: No, but the fact that war bonus is being paid is material information now.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: The Noble Lord is correct. We are talking only about Supplementary Estimates, and when I said we could discuss the war bonus when we came to Page 36 I was referring, of course, to the Supplementary Estimates, and the same Rules of Debate will apply to the discussion of the Unclassified Services as apply to the other Supplementary Estimates, and hon. Members will only be able to discuss the point in so far as any addition is asked for in the Supplementary Estimate.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: That point can be answered when we reach those Votes. The present discussion cannot be carried any further.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
2228: I think we ought to have a little more information in regard to this Estimate. Item A refers to "provision for additional staff, etc., necessitated by increased business and the re-organisation of and additions to the Map Department staff." The sum put down for that is £1,850, but if we look back at the original Estimate for the Map Department, we find a footnote to the effect that the numbers of the subordinate staff in that Department have not yet been finally settled. Apparently this Department is still increasing in size, and I should like to know clearly whether a definite point has yet been reached in regard to that matter, or whether further
2228Lieut.-Commander WILLIAMS
: It would not be in order to have a discussion with reference to the police strike which occurred some time ago, nor would it be in order for the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary to reply. We are now only concerned with a Supplementary Estimate of £440,000 on an original Vote of £6,175,000, and it would not be in order to discuss the general administration of the police of England and Wales.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: We cannot discuss that now.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: As I understand it, a supplementary sum of £440,000 is being asked for, and that is the only question before the Committee. If there is any item of expenditure in this £440,000 for payment to any of the ex-police officers with whom the hon. Member desires to deal, he would be in order in asking for information or discussing any money involved in their case. If, however, there is no such money included, it does not come before the Committee now. I understand that the question of the ex-police officers who were on strike does not come into this figure. If it does, then, in so far as it comes in, it will be in order, but at present, as I understand, it is not included.The DEPUTY - CHAIRMAN
: As I understand it, that does not arise on this Vote.The DEPUTY - CHAIRMAN
: I rather agree with the right hon. Gentleman.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
2241: I should like to ask the Home Secretary whether any and, if so, how much of this additional sum of £440,000 is incurred on account of the women police in London, because if any portion of it is devoted to that object, I feel it my duty to say that I believe the whole of that money was wasted, and the not inconsiderable sum spent on the travesty on police uniforms of these women police, who have no powers and duties but to perambulate the parks and streets, is a most regrettable expenditure of public money at the present time, when, Heaven knows, there is little enough of it
2241Sir J. D. REES
2242: Then I hope it will not reach the judges of the High Court, not for any criticism of them, but because I think the bonus system is being very largely developed, as this Vote testifies. What is the grant in aid of the Police Federation? I am no doubt exposing an ignorance which is not shared by any other Member of the Committee, but I do not know. As regards the Home Secretary's remarks on the necessity for efficiency, I submit that neither he nor any other official, nor any Department, can insist upon efficiency irrespective of cost. It is entirely a question of cost, of how much efficiency the taxpayer and the ratepayer can afford, and it is even better, I submit, to stop short of a very high mark of efficiency and have a few pennies left in one's pocket than to have an exceedingly efficient police force and not have a copper left to pay for a bus ride. As to the representatives on the Committee, of which the right hon. Gentleman spoke, everybody repudiates representatives who do not recommend exactly what they want. Every House of Commons is unrepresentative of those who were defeated at the polls, and I think very little of that. I look to the Home Secretary to exercise a stern and rigid economy, and I hope he will begin to do it by ceasing to spend any more money on clothes and salaries for the policewomen in London. I am not speaking without having made some inquiry. I have made it my business to inquire. I have asked all over
2242Sir J. D. REES
: I do not know whether the Supplementary Estimate provides any money for these particular duties to which the Noble Lord is going to refer. If not, it would not be in order to discuss them now.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: It is not in order on these Supplementary Estimates to discuss the policy and duties of the police. The only question now under discussion is whether this Supplementary Estimate should be granted for these additional expenses. It is never in order on the Supplementary Estimates to discuss the main policy.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: He was out of order if he introduced it.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
"e""e": Are we not discussing the expenditure under "e""e"Colonel NEWMAN
2246: No, not the whole administration of the force throughout the country. It is obvious that is not the matter before the Committee. It is quite clear that has been sanctioned by Parliament to the extent of £6,175,000. The only question to be discussed now is whether an additional
2246The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Certainly, if directed in that way, it would be in order. I could not disallow it.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
2247: I have already told the hon. Member it is not, but he has continued to disregard my ruling. The general administration of the police force is not under discussion
2247The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Well, I may be wrong, I shall be glad if I am, but I understood from the Chair that even then we shall only be entitled to discuss any addition made by the Supplementary Estimate, but not the policy of the war bonus at all. I think we ought to be absolutely clear as to where we stand in this matter, and whether we shall be able to raise the question of principle or policy of the war bonus on the Unclassified Services.Lord R. CECIL
: There is no advantage to be gained by carrying on our discussion under a misapprehension. I understand that when we get to the Unclassified Services we shall not be entitled to discuss the policy of the war bonus at all.Lord ROBERT CECIL
: I do not think so When he told us definitely at the end of last year that he must go at the end of August, I said to him, "I venture to think you are making a great mistake; and if you are not careful, you will soon be one of the most popular men in the House of Commons." There is no disagreement between him and the Government. In my sincere view he has rendered a great service to the country. People who like myself are more or less professional politicians have a right to expect to be attacked and do not much mind it, but I have always felt it was a little hard that men who were not doing the work for any motive of ambition, but with a desire to the best of their ability to serve their country should be attacked. My right hon. Friend has done that, and I think the House of Commons will realise that he has done it.Mr. BONAR LAW
: First of all, with regard to what my right hon. Friend has said as to the railway dispute, I can give him a definite assurance. I quite agree with the view he has expressed, that it is not in the interest either of the State or of the railway companies that the dispute should be prolonged. Like myself, my right hon. Friend has been a Member of the House of Commons for a considerable time. In the old days, whatever Government was in power, I used to think there was an inclination to treat the railway companies not quite fairly in regard to private Bills. Everyone knows that railway conditions in this country are vital to our trade and industry. I can assure the House that, so far as the Government is concerned—I have not gone into this question on its merits—while we must safeguard the interest of the taxpayers, it will certainly be our desire to deal fairly with the railway companies on any question which arises. If negotiations take place, as I hope they will, my right hon. Friend will understand, of course, that it will be the duty of the Minister of Transport to keep the House in touch, as far as possible, with everything done. But it must be obvious that while negotiations are going on, we cannot publish what is happening. I can give this undertaking that the Government will commit themselves to nothing which the House has not the power to revise. I find a little difficulty in answering the last question put by the right hon. Gentleman, because it is to a certain extent personal. I have read with great surprise myself the statements which have appeared in some newspapers to the effect not only is my right hon. Friend giving up office, but that he is giving it up because the Government will not let him have his way in regard to railway policy. There is not a word of truth in those statements.Mr. BONAR LAW
2200: My hon. Friend really raises a very big question on which I should have thought all parties in the House, and even hon. Members on the Labour Benches, would have taken the same view. We have to consider in connection with the expenditure of money, not merely whether it will be of advantage to the country, but also what is the state of our finances at the time, and I do not see how such a matter as this can be pressed now, the financial condition of the country being what it is. As regards the other question my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport has been working for two years on this railway problem. It is a very big problem. What has happened during the War, while the railways have been under control has had this result, that it can safely be said you cannot hand the railways back to the companies without an attempt being made to arrive at some method of dealing with them which will be good for the railways and good for the country. If you were to hand them back without doing this, I believe the Government would fail in its duty. I believe we must face it. My right hon. Friend has submitted his proposals to the Cabinet. A Cabinet Committee is now examining them, and I have no reason whatever to believe that we shall not be able to agree upon some plan which we shall submit to the House of Commons.2200Mr. BONAR LAW
2178: This Motion does not interfere with the Motion for Adjournment. If the House should not desire such a Motion, then if a sufficient number of Members keep their seats the Adjournment is not given. In addition we can rely on Mr. Speaker not to give it unless there are reasonable grounds. If such contingencies as my hon. Friend suggests arise, then the House would have to consider a change in reference to Motions for Adjournment, and would find some other way of dealing with the matter. My right hon. Friend referred to the introduction of Bills up to the end of the financial year. No Bill will be introduced or pushed forward in which there is the smallest controversy, unless in the ease of the coal emergency, which has to be dealt with before Easter. I can give that promise definitely. I was charmed by the compliments paid by the hon. Member for Wood Green (Mr. G. Locker-Lampson), but I would have appreciated them more did they not take the form of wishing to alter our proposal. I am willing, for the sake of argument, to admit his contention that it is our fault business is not more advanced, but that does not alter the fact that we are in this position, and that the business has to be done before the end of the financial year. The time is limited. The suggestion of the hon. Member as to the hours seems a reasonable one, and I should be disappointed if we have to sit beyond the hours which he indicates. There has been no obstruction on the Estimates. But we cannot be certain that something may not cause a certain appearance of ill-temper in one section or the other which might produce obstruction and, suppose coming near the end of the financial year we found that business could not be got through except by giving a longer time, then if we accept such an Amendment it would drive the Government to ask the House to pass a Resolution to get rid of the whole business.2178Mr. BONAR LAW
: I say at once that any arrangement of that kind will be gladly welcomed by the Government, and we shall do everything we can to facilitate it. I do not mean an arrangement merely with the official Opposition, but with the whole House.Mr. BONAR LAW
2170"That, until the end of the financial year, Government Business be not interrupted under the provisions of any Standing Order relating to the Sittings of the House, and may be entered upon at any hour, although opposed.": I beg to move,
2170"That, until the end of the financial year, Government Business be not interrupted under the provisions of any Standing Order relating to the Sittings of the House, and may be entered upon at any hour, although opposed."Mr. BONAR LAW (Leader of the House)
: The Motion for Adjournment remains.Mr. BONAR LAW
: I do not remember it.Mr. BONAR LAW
2171: I am very glad that my right hon. Friend, with his usual fairness and courtesy, has admitted that the discussions which have taken place hitherto since the Session began have not been even tinged with any degree of obstruction. My right hon. Friend claims that, whatever may be the faults of the past with regard to the management of Government business, it is no use discussing that now, but that we must make the best of things as they are. That is quite a practical position to take, but at the same time I think I am justified in pointing out that the real reason for the Motion now before the House is the number of Supplementary Estimates, namely, 35. I do not suppose that my right hon. Friend is responsible for that, although I suppose he is responsible for most things that happen here. The real responsibility rests with the chiefs of the various Departments and their Parliamentary representatives here. I think that the House is entitled to say, as I certainly do on behalf of those who act with me, that there has been this gross miscalculation of the financial expenditure of the year. There are a number of most important Supplementary Estimates yet to be dealt with. We have dealt with ten of them, and one is being withdrawn, but I do not suppose that that involves any real loss of time, because, no doubt,
2171Sir D. MACLEAN
: I would like to make a suggestion. I think it is quite possible, by an arrangement between what are called the Front Benches, to provide that Members who are interested in any particular Supplementary Estimate should meet, and those of us who are called the usual channels would know what they really desire to discuss. If we have that information I am sure that the Labour party and ourselves can arrange with the Leader of the House and the Patronage Secretary that those Estimates shall come on first and that the Estimates which are not of very great importance—there are some which do not raise any point of vital consequence—shall be taken without unnecessary discussion. I think that could be done by a system of grouping and then it would be quite certain that none of the important Estimates would come on after 12 o'clock at night. That is rather a change from the usual party procedure, but I suggest it in the interests of business and economy. Certainly all on this side of the House will do all they can to facilitate the working of such art arrangement.Sir D. MACLEAN
: He has always been that.Sir D. MACLEAN
21982197: I desire to assure hon. Members who may wish to take part in this Debate that I only propose to intervene for a few minutes. I wished to ask the Leader of the House a question if he were here. But meanwhile I would like to say this with regard to what my hon. Friend (Major Barnes) has just indicated in his concluding remarks. It is not a matter of hope or request that this House shall have the last word in these matters. The House must have the last word, and whatever arrangements are made by the Minister of Transport, or any other official, the right and duty of Parliament to see that everything relevant comes under its review and receives its final sanction is undoubted. That I am certain will be duly carried out. I do not presume to offer advice, but I should like to say one thing to the railway managers and chairmen, and if my right hon. Friend the Minister of Transport will allow me to tender him also a word of advice I will include him in it. I wish to point out to them all that they will never have a better opportunity than this Session affords of arriving at a final con-
21982197Sir D. MACLEAN
: We quite understand that any meticulous particularity with regard to what is happening with regard to my right hon. Friend and the railways would not only be detrimental to the public interest, but would be a waste of time. Perhaps my right hon. Friend might have it in his mind that the House would like as far as possible a monthly statement as to what progress has been made in this matter and what sums are being paid out.Sir D. MACLEAN
22222221"That the Vote be reduced by £1,530.": I beg to move,
22222221"That the Vote be reduced by £1,530."Sir D. MACLEAN
: On a point of Order. This large sum of £330,000 is being asked for additional pay for police, and I suggest, with much respect, that it is open to my hon. Friend to put his case before the Home Secretary, and ask whether, with regard to this additional sum, the men referred to are entitled, as my hon. Friend suggests, to favourable consideration.Sir D. MACLEAN
2235: On that point of Order. Would it not be better for the Home Secretary, who knows all about this, to state whether they are or are not included, and whether my hon. Friend's point can or cannot be dealt with on this Vote? With great respect, it is for the right hon. Gentleman to say whether any
2235Sir D. MACLEAN
: There is nothing in this sum of money which provides for pensions for police constables.The SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Mr. Shortt)
: So do county court judges.Mr. SHORTT
: I had requests a number of times.Mr. SHORTT
22392238: I gather that the point which is raised applies to what is called the police bonus, which is a bonus additional to the police pay having regard to the cost of living. As there seems to be some misapprehension in regard to the police bonus, I will endeavour to state exactly what has happened. Under the Police Act, 1919, the police have in their own body of the whole country what corresponds to a trade union. They have a representative body of their own election called the Police Council, which is a central body on which every grade of the police are represented, and on which body the police authorities, the standing joint committees, etc., are also represented. At a meeting of the Police Council the police brought forward the question of bonus, because of the additional cost of living since the Desborough Committee had reported. The Desborough Committee recommended a scale of pay which has been adopted all over the country. The police representatives on the council pointed out that the cost of living had increased very largely since the Desborough Committee reported, and therefore they were entitled to a bonus having regard to the rise in the cost of living. On that a Committee of the Council was appointed, and upon it were representatives of the police and of the authorities. It was so constituted that no recommendation could be made by it unless both sides, that is to say the
22392238Mr. SHORTT
: Nothing.Mr. SHORTT
: With regard to the question put by my hon. Friend (Mr. Mosley) as to the necessity for stationing a special man to deal with motor traffic at a corner he mentioned, I may say the place will be visited by an inspector and full inquiry made, and if anything can be done it will be done. I hope the Committee will now give me the Vote.Mr. SHORTT
: I am afraid I cannot give that information. I have not the figures here.Mr. SHORTT
: We do consider that, and we have discussed it. May I point out, however, that it is a little difficult to send circulars round to the gentlemen who administer justice. It seems very much like interference, but we do make suggestions of that kind.Mr. SHORTT
primâ facie: Why is it that in 1915–16 there were 36 interventions out of 962 inquiries, whereas for the last year for which figures are available there were only 68 interventions, and the inquiries had gone up to 3,051? It appears to me that if there are so few interventions, the vast majority of the inquiries must be pure waste of money. Will the Government see that in future inquiries are made only when there is some primâ facieCaptain BOWYER
22242223: I have
been trying to understand this Estimate, and should like to ask my right hon. Friend one or two questions about it. In the first place, in the middle of the page, rather like a plum in a cake, there is a sum down for receipts, but it does not look, unfortunately, as if this plum was ever in the hole, for, as far as I can see, the receipts amount to £45,000; the original Estimates were £120,000, the revised Estimate is £165,000, so you have an increased amount of receipts put down as £45,000. But I do not see that these receipts have been taken into account in the actual sum the hon. Gentleman is now asking from the House. I do not see how these receipts work into the Estimate. Does this Estimate really include the whole of expenses of this Department? The right hon. Gentleman knows very well that one of the recommendations of the Committee on National Expenditure was that each Vote should show the total expenses of the Department. It very often happens that outside the actual sum asked for for a Department under a particular Vote other moneys are required for a Department that come under different Votes, the Stationery Department and Office of Works, for instance. Does this really represent the whole of the money required for this Department? Does it include, for instance, the Stationery or Postal Department? When we are discussing the Votes of this Department it is really a good thing to know whether
22242223Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: There has been a heavy increase since last year in this Vote. Last year, apparently, the original Estimate was just under £2,000,000, and then the Government came down with a Supplementary Estimate of about £4,000,000, which made the whole expense suddenly up to about £6,000,000. Then the original Estimate this year was just over £6,000,000, and they now ask us for very nearly another £500,000. That is to say, for last year the additional expense is just about £750,000. Every single pound that is paid out by us in respect of the police adds to the rates all over the country, because it is a proportionate grant, and you cannot possibly increase the grant for the police without adding to the rates all over the country. Various councils during the last few months have passed resolutions begging the Home Office not to keep on increasing these grants, because wherever the Homo Office increases them it falls upon the rates. The police are a very deserving body of fine men, but I hope the right hon. Gentleman will bear in mind that a great many of these local councils are most anxious that these grants shall not keep on being increased, because it simply means that they have to make a proportionate increase, and it always goes on the rates.Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: What I asked was whether there was anything for stationery, and whether this Supplementary Estimate entailed something for stationery which might appear in some other Vote?Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
: I handed in this Amendment because I believed the Government would accept it, and I also hoped it would receive more favour in the House, but it has not received the favour that would justify one in going to a Division upon it, and therefore I would propose to withdraw it. I feel, however, that I must vote against the main Resolution as a protest against what I believe to be the mismanagement of Parliamentary time.Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
2174: I am really not misrepresenting him. We have heard him say it before, and in nearly every case we have had all-night Sittings. It stands to reason that it leads much more to obstruction than to let the discussion go on perfectly freely. These late Sittings are most demoralising. If we have to come at 11 o'clock in the morning to a Committee and then sit through the night and all night it is really only people of the very strongest physique who can stand it. Quite apart from that, I believe it really leads to this House being brought into contempt by the public outside. You cannot possibly discuss Legislation with any good results at all at these late hours of the morning. So that from that point of view I feel that this Motion ought to be very much modified. I counted up the amount of money this morning and I find that there remain between £8,000,000 and £9,000,000 of public money in these Supplementary Estimates. Certain points in them appear to be extremely controversial, though they can probably be cleared up by the Government when the time comes. I know a good many of my hon. Friends will be very dissatisfied because my Amendment does not go far enough. A great many people think midnight is quite late enough. I am sure that midnight is quite late enough, but I put the Amendment in this form in order to show that I do not want to restrict the Government more than is absolutely necessary. Un-
2174Mr. LOCKER-LAMPSON
2173: I beg to move, at the end of the Question, to add the words "provided that discussion upon Supplementary Estimates shall not, on any day, be continued after 1 a.m. or on any Friday after 6 p.m."2173Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
"the costs in Prize cases have exceeded expectations and also the costs from Crown nominees' estates"—: Though only £10 is asked for, the real increase is £16,000, but Appropriations-in-Aid amount to £15,990. When I look for details I see the explanation that in a number of cases larger county allowances are being received than were anticipated. Does that mean that we are transferring from the national taxation to the rates or local authorities the costs of these prosecutions? If so, why should that be so? As regards the second part of the explanation—that
"the costs in Prize cases have exceeded expectations and also the costs from Crown nominees' estates"—Mr. CAUTLEY
2236: I wish to call attention to much the same case as has been
2236Mr. CAUTLEY
2226"The total original net Estimate, 1920–21, for the Land Registry was £89,292.": There are two questions which I should like to ask. The original Estimate was £76,292, and just below in small type it says:
2226"The total original net Estimate, 1920–21, for the Land Registry was £89,292."Mr. CAUTLEY
: I am not at all satisfied an to the precautions exercised in regard to the inquiries set on foot by the King's Proctor. Can the hon. and learned Gentleman tell us what supervision is exercised over the number of cases in which inquiries are made? When you have a Department with power to spend money, it is easy enough for them to find work. Are there not any cases where, on the evidence which is submitted to the King's Proctor, it is unnecessary to have further inquiries made by sending a number of officials all over the country for the purpose? I should like an assurance that some care is exercised in this matter.Mr. KILEY
: I wish to emphasise the point made by the last speaker. Although there have been 3,000 inquiries and in 68 cases there has been intervention, it does not follow that even in those 68 cases there was any justification for intervention. Assuming there is justification, does it not suggest that a little more care exercised might reduce the number of 3,000 to reasonable proportions. If there is free play for those concerned to set going as many inquiries as they like and the net result of all their work is only 68 interventions, it suggests that there might be room for a reduction of the number and a saving of expenditure.Mr. KILEY
: I wish to ask the Home Secretary whether it is in his power to issue a circular stating whether there are not other facilities for these boys, such as sending them to sea in the Mercantile Marine, instead of putting a charge upon rates in this way. If he could do this—if he could take some action in this direction—I am sure it would be of great service.Mr. KILEY
: Am I in order in referring or calling attention to that deductable portion of the men's pensions during the time they were in the service? This Vote deals with pensions, and money has been deducted from these men, who had 10 or 15 years' service.Mr. SEXTON
: That was not my intention. My intention was to ask the Home Secretary whether, in the future provision for the employment of police under this Supplementary Estimate, it would be possible to consider the eligibility of these men, who, as we all know, have suffered severely, and whether, if vacancies occur in the police force, they would be considered eligible for rejoining the force.Mr. SEXTON
: I want to call attention on this Vote to the present position of the men implicated in the police strike two years ago. The right hon. Gentleman will agree, I am sure—Mr. SEXTON
: I notice that in Item A, the total of which is £6,758, as much as £4,200 is put down for overtime. Seeing the enormous number of men out of work, it seems to me hardly fair that such a charge should appear here. I am not against overtime where it is necessary, but when we know there are so many men, not only ordinary civilians, but ex-soldiers and officers, out of work, and that huge pressure is being brought to bear on the Ministry of Labour to provide employment for them, it seems strange there should be such an amount of overtime provided for in this Estimate. Could not the work be handed over to some of these unemployed men? It would be more economic to do this, and it would be an advantage to the whole country, if an effort were made to revive posts for men out of work, and relieve them of the necessity of applying for the unemployment benefit by giving them the work now done in overtime.Mr. SWAN
: You had requests?Mr. SWAN
: I understand that overtures have been made to the Home Secretary to re-absorb the men who were dismissed. Is anything included in these Estimates for that?Mr. SWAN
22092208: I will not follow the hon. Member who has just spoken into the questions of costs and losses to which he referred, nor comment upon his remarks as to the extravagant wages received by the workers. I regret to hear that we are likely to lose the Minister of Transport, although I am pleased that the collective opinion in this House is so far changed to-day that his services are beginning to be acknowledged. A very short while ago no epithet was considered bad enough to throw at him both by Members of this House and by influences outside. However many of us looked upon the Department and the Minister at its head, especially in the Labour party, as being able to make great progress and to co-ordinate the service to the advantage of the whole nation, and one regrets, after serving on the Ways and Communications Bill with the Minister, to see that the railways have got to be handed back and, as part of the bargain, this amount of £21,000,000 has to be paid to them because many of us shuddered as to the state we should all have been in had the Government not taken control of the railways. It is common knowledge that they absolutely failed to function, and hence the State had to step in and control them.22092208Mr. SWAN
: How can he do the work which the Department was set up to do if the money intended for it is taken away? There was money set aside for development. It has been taken away from the Minister of Transport, and what is the use of his holding on to office now?Mr. SWAN
: Yes, Sir.Mr. SWAN
: Should the Motion in the name of the Leader of the House be carried, would that result in taking away the privilege of Members to raise an important matter at Question Time and, in the event of the reply being unsatisfactory, raising the matter again on the Adjournment at eleven o'clock?Mr. SWAN
quasi: In view of the remarkable increase in the expense of this Department, I trust that we may have some explanation from the Solicitor-General. Under Item B, for instance, we find that in 1919–20 the sum of £20,000 was allocated for criminal proceedings and quasiMr. MOSLEY
: I would like to endorse the comments made on the remarkable figures given to the Committee. It would appear that, in cases where inquiries have been made, in not 2 per cent, of those cases has any action been taken by the King's Proctor. Would the learned Solicitor-General also give detailed information as to Item B, which shows an increase of £12,500 over the Estimate for 1919–20?Mr. MOSLEY
: Surely when there is an increase in the Estimate of this year over that of last year amounting to £12,500 for criminal prosecutions we can have some explanation before we pass this sum?Mr. MOSLEY
: I do not think that a Supplementary Estimate showing such a large increase should be passed.Mr. MOSLEY
2245: I heartily agree with my hon. Friend who has just spoken. Before the Committee passes this large Sum for the police bonus, we should be satisfied of an increase in efficiency commensurate with the increase in pay. The evidence available points to the reverse of the proposition. In the police organisation there is a remarkable lack of a sense of proportion. I cannot vie with my Noble Friend in such experiences, but a few cases have recently been brought to my own notice, in only one of which I myself was involved. These instances are annoying and remarkable, when considered in conjunction with the fact that there are demands for the police and for police control at spots where it is really vital for the preservation of human life. In my own constituency,
2245Mr. MOSLEY
: That is exactly what I was trying, very inadequately, to point out. If the police were not employed upon frivolous duties, it would be possible to utilise their services upon vital work and to effect a reduction in the expenditure. Recently many cases have come to light in which the police have taken action, not with a view of preserving life by preventing motor travelling in dangerous places and at excessive speeds, but in bringing purely frivolous charges involving technical offences, such as the temporary failure of a side light, while powerful headlights were still burning. The charge has been recently made against myself, and I have heard of other cases.Mr. MOSLEY
: As we are voting this additional sum of £440,000, are we not entitled to ask whether we are going to have increased efficiency in the organisation? Clearly, we should be satisfied on that point before we vote this increase in pay. The pay of the men is increased under this Vote, and, under these circumstances, I submit that we are entitled to question the efficiency of traffic control in the Metropolitan area. We find a remarkable lack of proportion—Mr. MOSLEY
: With all due respect to your ruling, the question of the efficiency of the police was originally introduced by the Home Secretary.Mr. MOSLEY
ultra vires,ab initio2216versus: That is part of my learned Friend's work. I always feel that in this matter of examining Estimates my mind runs very much on all fours with that of the right hon. Member for Camborne (Mr. Acland). When I saw a reference to the case of Crane ultra vires,ab initio2216versusMr. BALDWIN
2231b2230: I beg my hon. Friend's pardon. I think the best way to reply to the general criticisms which have been made will be to say a few words about the work of this office. I agree it may appear startling that an extra £7,530 is being asked for, but I would remind the hon. Member for Tavistock (Lieut. -Commander Williams) that he made an error in imagining that the receipts in connection with Land Registry did not cover expenses, because they cover far more than the expenditure. The estimated increased receipts is no less than £45,000, making the total we expect to receive £165,000 as against the original estimated receipts of only £120,000. That in itself is no reason, I admit, why we should not be as economical as possible. There is no reason to be extravagant be cause we happen to have a branch which brings in a considerable sum to the revenue.2231b2230Mr. BALDWIN
2229: I have never had much experience on the subject which my right hon. Friend has just raised, but I do not think in this country it will ever be necessary to advertise for people who want peerages. I propose to deal with one or two of the small points which have been raised in the course of the Debate. My hon. Friend the Member for East Grin-stead (Mr. Cautley) pointed to a serious discrepancy between the total of the Supplementary Vote and the total of the
2229Mr. BALDWIN
: Yes.Mr. BALDWIN
: I am afraid I have no recollection, but I will find out, and send particulars to the hon. Baronet.Mr. BALDWIN
2215: I will do my best to answer the points which have been raised. I took the precaution of securing the assistance of the Solicitor-General (Sir E. Pollock) in case there should be any legal points with which I might not be able to deal. In reference to Subheads B and F, my hon. Friend the Member for Harrow (Mr. Mosley) asked for some figures showing the increase of work that has been done owing to divorce cases, and they will be of considerable interest, to the Committee. Although in the view of one of my hon. Friends (Major Entwistle), it would be a good thing if the Government took no notice of these private suits, and left people to go their own sweet way in anticipation of legislation which has not yet been passed, the view of the Government is that as long as the present law exists, we should do our1 best to prevent collusion, which undoubtedly occurs. As long as human nature remains unchanged, whatever the law may be, attempts at collusion will be made, so that in some degree we may always look for these charges. The bulk of the increased charge under B is directly attributable to the great increase in the divorce cases, because in so many cases the evidence that has been discovered on intervention leads to prosecutions for perjury and, I may add, a very regrettable circumstance, there has also been a marked increase this year in
2215The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Baldwin)
2172: We oppose this Motion. The Leader of the House has told us that he was not asking for the suspension of the Eleven o'clock Rule on account of undue discussion. I can assure him that the undue discussion has not been on this side of the House this Session. It has been among the supporters of the Government. It was very pathetic yesterday to see the Minister of Labour having to get up time and again, covering the same ground as he had covered in pre-
2172Mr. T. GRIFFITHS
220322022201: With regard to what the Leader of the House has just said, the only thing I should like to say is that I
220322022201Mr. INSKIP
2181: I would ask my hon. Friend to withdraw his Amendment for I think the House has been convinced that we must give the Government the time if they are to get through the financial business. I wish to protest against the speeches of the hon. Member for West Ham and the last speaker in their advocacy of an earlier Sitting. I think the House should take the first opportunity of saying that it is not in the public interest that that change should take place. We want business men to be Members of the House. We want men who are in touch with law, banking, commerce, the stock exchange and merchandise, men who can afford to give part of their time to the House, but cannot give the whole of it. If you have earlier Sittings you will have two classes of Members only—one, the very rich man who has no need to go to business, and the other the professional politician, who
2181Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
Laughter.2175: I am opposed to the Motion and to the Amendment. It is perfectly evident that whether it is this Government or any other Government, time must be found in which to do the business of the House. I disagree with the methods adopted by the Government
Laughter.2175Mr. W. THORNE
: I should like to ask the Home Secretary if he could state the amount of the grants to the councils of counties and boroughs that support a police force, whether or not the various boroughs have agreed to the increases and what steps he intends taking if some of the boroughs refuse to fall into line on the increases.Sir A. SHIRLEY BENN
: Is it a statutory obligation to make inquiry into every undefended divorce case?Major ENTWISTLE
2212: There are one or two questions which I should like to ask on this Vote. In regard to the first item there is an additional sum required because of the increase in the number of important prosecutions. I should like to know the reason why these prosecutions have increased. I presume it is an increase in the number of prosecutions in which one of the Law Officers of the Crown has been engaged. It would be interesting to know what is the test of the kind of case in which a Law Officer is engaged. It may be said that the number of serious crimes have increased during the last year. When the murderer Holt was charged in connection with what was known as the Sandhills tragedy, the Attorney-General went to the Manchester Assizes to conduct the prosecution, and it struck me as rather extraordinary that an important personage like the Attorney-General, who has such important functions to perform in this House and in other matters, should have thought it necessary to go to Manchester to conduct that prosecution. I presume the result was additional expense to the State. I do not know what cost to the State was involved by the Attorney-General's appearance there, but there would be a leader under him, and, in addition, there would be a junior. The facts of the case were simple; there was no important point of law involved, and if ever there was a case which was perfectly clear and which would cause no difficulty that case
2212Major ENTWISTLE
2213: I was not discussing legislation, but only using it as an illustration of increased expenditure being incurred by the unnecessary intervention of the King's Proctor in cases under the existing legislation, against the feeling of the country. The King's Proctor should not unnecessarily interfere in cases against the public feeling in the country. As evidence of that we have had a Bill which has passed through the House of Lords and we have had a Motion which did not go through the House of Commons, but which met with a considerable measure of support, and I submit that the country does not view with favour the unnecessary interference of the King's Proctor. In a great many cases he interferes on grounds of the highest technicality against the whole wishes of the country. Where a marriage is one which
2213Major ENTWISTLE
: No, Sir; I wish to correct that statement at once. I am returning to no railway company.The MINISTER of TRANSPORT (Sir Eric Geddes)
2210: I hope the House will now allow me to have the Third Reading of this Bill. I should like, however, to make one point clear in reply to what my right hon. Friend opposite put to me. He said that no settlement of these outstanding matters with the railways ought to be come to without the cognisance of the House. That the Leader of the House has agreed to as far as is possible. With that I entirely agree. The one outstanding satisfaction to me in to-day's Debate is that I feel that I am getting the support of the House in this matter. The House is realising, possibly as it never realised before, that I am representing the interests of the community and doing the best for the community in a very big and intricate financial transaction. If I feel that I have the House behind me, that I have its support and the interest of Members of the House, it will enable me to conduct the negotiations with much greater success and much greater confidence. That being my attitude I desire to the fullest possible extent to keep the House advised and I desire that the House should know of every relevant settlement which is come to before we are irrevocably committed I must have the House with me in this matter. There are very large sums involved.2210Sir E. GEDDES
: I will see what I can do.Sir E. GEDDES
2220nisi,: The Judge who grants the decree 2220nisi,Sir E. POLLOCK
: I thought I had said that, in the case of the undefended divorce cases, in every case it is the duty of the King's Proctor to take the evidence into consideration, and when he has considered the evidence, and so on, it is his duty to decide whether or not it is a case in which he ought to take further steps, and if according to his discretion he thinks it a fit and proper case for further inquiries, then he will make such inquiries as he thinks right. The hon. Member need not be afraid that hordes of officials will go touring round the country in order to find work for themselves, because that is not the case. This is a judicial officer charged by law with the duty, in all cases of undefended divorces, of making such inquiries as in his discretion he thinks right. He is a very responsible and high officer, and I think the Committee may have every confidence in the exercise of his discretion in this matter.Sir E. POLLOCK
: My observations are really supplementary to those of my right hon. Friend, who has already said that there has been a very largely increased number of prosecutions, particularly of cases of perjury and abortion, and, of course, it is quite impossible to form an estimate beforehand as to how many prosecutions there will be of a particular type.Sir E. POLLOCK
2218nisinisi: I am very glad to reply as far as possible to the questions, which are all very reasonable questions. As to inquiries made by the King's Proctor into divorce cases and his intervention. In order to get a divorce, the parties must, come into Court with clean hands. It is not every person who is entitled to a divorce if he himself has been guilty of a breach of his conjugal contract. Under the law as it stands, if there were no inquiries made at all, there would be an opportunity of collusive divorce being obtained contrary to law. This is a matter in which detailed experience is not common to every Member of the House. The practice which has prevailed for a very long time indeed is this—that in the undefended divorce cases, of which there is a very great number now, inquiries are always set on foot by the King's Proctor to see whether or not it is a case of collusive divorce. In the very large number of undefended divorce cases amounting to 3,051 in the present year, it was necessary to make the same inquiries that have always been made, I was going to say, for a generation or more, into these cases, and that has a very important reflex deterrent effect against persons going into Court and endeavouring to obtain a decree 2218nisinisiThe SOLICITOR-GENERAL (Sir Ernest Pollock)
2240: The statement of the Home Secretary will have convinced the Committee that the payment of this extra bonus is inevitable. If you have an increased cost per unit, the only way to avoid a greater total charge is to reduce the number of units concerned. I would like a statement as to the practice of the Home Office with regard to fixing the numbers of the police forces in some of the districts under their control. I have
2240Mr. ACLAND
: My right hon. Friend just now said that his mind and mine ran so much on the same lines that he often found himself thinking what questions I might ask, and fortifying himself in advance with the information I was likely to apply for. I feel certain he will have fortified himself with an answer to the question I now propose to put, and it is: What is the meaning of the words "advertisements for absolute titles," which are to be found in Item B? I presume they refer to land titles and not titles in the peerage, because if it were the latter, and if the Exchequer resorted to the practice of advertising for persons who desire such titles, there should be considerable Appropriations-in-Aid to be brought in on the other side.Mr. ACLAND
"Expenses of the Director of Public Prosecutions under the Criminal Appeal Act.": I assume that we shall have some explanation of Sub-head K—
"Expenses of the Director of Public Prosecutions under the Criminal Appeal Act."Mr. ACLAND
: As I understand it, my hon. Friend was beginning to refer to cases where he considered that an un necessary number of police were being employed. Would not that be in order as tending to show that a reduction might have been made in the numbers and that therefore this extra expense might have been saved?Mr. ACLAND
: I beg to second the Amendment. To pass these very important Estimates, many of them involving principles of the highest importance, which will require discussion, in the small hours of the morning, is unfair not only to the Committee but to the taxpayer generally. I am glad that the Leader of the House admitted that there is no obstruction. I do not believe there is any obstruction. We know what happened before our Adjournment at Christmas. Some of the most important Votes were hurried through, Votes involving the most disputatious matter, at three or four o'clock in the morning. We were told that it was very unlikely that we should sit long after eleven o'clock, but we know from experience what happened. In previous years many of us were ready to stand these long Sittings, but such prolonged Sittings are now becoming a very serious drain upon our strength. At such late hours, even if our strength will sustain the strain, we are not really fit to criticise Votes, and it is impossible to get any real effective attention and criticism, or any serious attempt to curtail expenditure. In spite of our remonstrances, these important Votes are passed in the early hours of the morning, and they are scarcely reported in the newspapers, and pass unnoticed by the taxpayer. We are anxious, as far as possible, to show the utmost loyalty to this Government, and it is only in extreme measures that I have voted against them, but I feel sure that the Leader of the House will not find it very successful to attempt methods which the hon. Member who spoke from the Labour Benches suggested would be adopted in his party. We are constituted in a different way, and we would not be subject to that drastic discipline which he would impose upon his party.Sir H. CRAIK
: This question of war bonus is being raised over and over again in small driblets, but I understood you to hold that it could be only discussed at some length when we come to the unclassified services. I feel very strongly about it and wish to criticise it from several points of view, but it will really interfere with a satisfactory Debate if we attempt to deal with it in driblets. I would therefore suggest that we should postpone it until we get to that Vote. Otherwise, those of us who feel strongly on the question must raise it and discuss it on each Vote.Sir H. CRAIK
: I hope you will not preclude us, when we come to discuss the bonus, from raising the question of increases of salary upon which the bonus is paid. One of my objections to the bonus is that it has followed a general increase of salaries, and I could not argue the question of bonus without referring to the fact that independently of it salaries have been generally increased.Sir H. CRAIK
: Oh, yes.Sir H. CRAIK
: Are we to be entitled to raise the policy of the war bonus when we get to the Vote for the Unclassified Services?Sir H. CRAIK
2237: I desire to ram home what has been said by the hon. Member for Wood Green (Mr. G. Locker-Lamp-
2237Sir H. NIELD
: Could the right hon. Gentleman tell me the normal length of hours which these men work?Sir J. BUTCHER
: Will the right hon. Gentleman at the same time state whether any change has recently been made?Sir J. BUTCHER
: I should like to ask one or two questions about this large amount for overtime. How many hours do these gentlemen normally work, and when does overtime begin? Have the hours which they work decreased, or have they been the same for some considerable time? Overtime is very expensive work. I presume it is paid at a higher rate than ordinary time. If so, and if the increase in business is likely to demand overtime for some considerable time, would it not be far better and cheaper to employ, temporarily, some ex-service men until the pressure of business decreases, thus giving them employment and getting their services at the ordinary rate instead of paying extremely well-paid civil servants additional sums for overtime? Therefore, I would ask my right hon. Friend to tell us whether overtime is likely to continue, and if so, will he adopt the cheaper and more advantageous course of employing, temporarily, at any rate, ex-service men?Sir JOHN BUTCHER
: Is it in order on this Vote to go into the general administration of the force?Sir J. BUTCHER
: I think part of this £440,000 has been spent in connection with the Pensions Increase Fund. I should like to know whether the increase has been sufficient to meet all cases of hardship brought before the authorities, and how large is the increase?Sir J. BUTCHER
2207220622052204: I am sure we should be very sorry to lose the right hon. Gentleman. The success of the company for whom he so ably acted as general manager before he came here is evidence of how far we ought to trust him in the interests of the railway com-
2207220622052204Sir J. HARMO0D-BANNER
: The speech of the hon. Member who has just spoken so very fully bears out my views when I listened to the speech of the hon. and gallant Member for Newcastle (Major Barnes) that I do not propose to add very much to what the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. Inskip) has so ably said. I do think, however, that it wants a little bit of application as regards the somewhat hard speech which we have heard from the hon. and gallant Member for Newcastle (Major Barnes). First, I should like to congratulate the company to whose services, I presume, the Minister of Transport is preparing to return—Sir J. HARMOOD- BANNER
: As a London Member, I would point out that a few years ago the London police force might have, been very much open to criticism, but to-day, as regards discipline, contentment and efficiency, it is in first-class order. I believe that that is due very largely to the policy of the Home Secretary in seeing that the men are properly paid and looked after. I saw a large number of policemen together one night last week, about 400 of them. The Special Commissioner and many of the officers were present. I was much impressed by the popularity of the officers, and the discipline and good temper of the men. I think, therefore, that the policy of the Home Secretary is not only right, but has added greatly to the security of London.Sir W. PEARCE
2244: I ask the Home Secretary whether any portion of the money is for the police employed on this duty. It is impossible to ascertain it from the Vote. It simply says it is a contribution towards the expenses of the Metropolitan Police District. The Metropolitan Police I was talking about, and no less than an average number of about 70 to 80 per week were employed upon no other duties than the control of motor traffic in the Metropolitan Police area alone during last summer up to a certain point. I know it is different now. What I would like to know is whether we could not secure a more efficient and better police service, so far as motor traffic is concerned, organised on different lines. I do not wish motor traffic to go unrestricted in the Metropolitan Police area, or anywhere else, but I do maintain that the system which necessitated the employment of so many police constables every week-end last year was not efficient. They caught very few people who really wanted catching. All they did was to catch people going from speeds of 25 to 30 miles an hour. The people going 40 miles and over were very seldom, if ever, caught. I want to press upon the Home Secretary whether he will not consider instituting in future some special form of road police. I know the subject has been considered, but we have heard nothing of it for a long time, and I hope he can give us some information. A special branch of road police, given a certain amount of mobility, mounted on motor-cycles or something of that kind, would be a great success here as they have been in America and other countries. Is the Home Secretary inquiring into this?2244Viscount CURZON
2243: I would really like, as strongly as I can, to dissent from what the hon. Member for Nottingham (Sir J. D. Rees) has just said on the subject of women police. I do not possess any extensive knowledge of what they are able to do, or what their duties are, but I do not think you get the best out of any force by running it down in the way the hon. Gentleman has done. I am quite confident there are some duties they perform far more efficiently than men could perform them, and, indeed, I believe that to that, testimony has been borne in the Report which has been issued to the House on the subject. I do not know whether there are any women police in Nottingham, but, if not, possibly it might, be a good thing to start them there. With regard to what the right hon. Gentleman said on the police bonus, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Navy has an absolutely analogous institution to the police force in its welfare committees, which have made certain recommendations to the Admiralty on the subject of pay, to which the Admiralty have not seen their way to agree. When the Police Federation made a recommendation to the Home Secretary in favour of an increase of pay, he said in rather pathetic terms, I thought, "What is the Home Secretary to do?" I suggest he might have done exactly what the First Lord of the Admiralty did on the subject, and that is refuse a great many requests which were just as reasonable. The Navy does not enjoy a war bonus to-day, and I do not see why it should be paid in all cases in the police force. There is a great deal to be said for further inquiry about the war bonus to the police force before it is continued. What I want to know is exactly how much of this expenditure of £440,000 is necessitated by the operations, chiefly of the Metropolitan Police, against automobiles. This is a subject about which I do claim to know something. I have put a series of questions to the Home Secretary in
2243Viscount CURZON
: In order to elucidate the point as to the inquiries, will the learned Solicitor-General state roughly the number of inquiries which have been successful, and can he also give us the figures for the corresponding years of the numbers of divorce cases?Captain Viscount CURZON
21802179: I have seen many of these arrangements, and I am sure the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir D. Maclean) will agree that often when such arrangements are made across the floor of the House some Member or Members want to raise questions which to them seem very important, but which do not seem important to the majority of the House, and that then they have been accused of a breach of faith in discussing the
21802179Earl WINTERTON
32.  asked the Prime Minister if there is any evidence in the possession of the Government showing that the action of rings, trusts, and combines is maintaining any prices above a level to which they would otherwise fall; and, if so, whether, as such action is calculated to increase the cost of production and produce unemployment, the Government will carry out during this Session their undertaking to introduce legislation dealing with such action?Major BARNES
42. 8 asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware that the British West Indian Colonies have recently granted a substantial preference on British-manufactured goods for a definite period of 10 years; whether, with a view to securing that these Colonies and other Crown Colonies and Protectorates
8Mr. G. MURRAY
: No, Sir. The information already available on the subject is not sufficiently comprehensive to justify publication, but the question of issuing such a return will be borne in mind.Mr. YOUNG
: I think, if I remember aright, what my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer said was, that he would see if he could obtain the information and if it was possible to publish it in the form of a Return.Mr. YOUNG
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the negative. The second part does not, therefore, arise. I feel confident that, with money as easy as it has been of late, the banks, who are fully alive to the urgency of the unemployment problem, have not been refusing credit unduly.Mr. YOUNG
: My hon. Friend will find that I have dealt with that point in the last part of my answer.Mr. YOUNG
: With regard to Messrs. Archdale and Company, I have no information. I am advised that sales of machine tools by the Disposal Board are being made by auction and tender subject to reserve prices, and that good prices are being obtained. For the reason stated in my reply of the 25th October to the hon. and gallant Member for Basing-stoke, it is not considered advisable to depart from the present policy of selling surplus stores.Mr. YOUNG
: No, Sir, my information does not bear out that.Mr. YOUNG
: No, Sir. On the contrary, my information is to the effect that the prices being obtained by the Disposal Board are good prices.Mr. YOUNG
: Will the hon. Gentleman remember that half the mileage of the Argentine railways was made after the Mitre Law was passed, and on the faith of that law, and will he consider just claims of British capitalists?Sir J. D. REES
: The Agriculture Act, 1920, did not amend the provisions of Section 1 of the Corn Production Act, 1917, which governs the question of payment in respect of fractions of an acre. There is no question, therefore, of any pledge on the subject having been contained in the Agriculture Act, and the answer to the second part of the question is, therefore, in the negative.The MINISTER of AGRICULTURE (Sir A. Boscawen)
: I think that I have already explained to the House that I referred the matter to the Law Officers of the Crown, who replied that I have no authority to pay for fractions of an acre under the Corn Production Act of 1917.Sir A. BOSCAWEN
: I am afraid that I do not know any means of getting round the Act.Sir A. BOSCAWEN
29.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the possible materialisation of large Empire settlement schemes in Australia and other Dominions, and with a view to giving Labour a greater share in the supervision and conduct of any emigration arrangements, he will consider, in consultation with the leader of the Labour party, the question of reinforcing the Oversea Settlement Committee by the addition of further Labour representatives?Mr. G. MURRAY
30.  asked the Prime Minister whether any Bill is contemplated rendering conscientious objectors and others of military age who avoided military service during the country's peril in the Great War ineligible as candidates for public offices?Sir J. D. REES
: In view of the policy of the Government to give the greatest possible preference to ex-service men in selecting candidates for Government employment, it is not considered that any such legislation is necessary.Mr. YOUNG
19: Is the Government aware of the intense indignation felt at the participation in the government of
19Sir J. D. REES
: I am well aware of the feeling that exists. I would refer the hon. Member to the notice on the Paper to-day relating to the Select Committee which it is proposed to set up.Mr. YOUNG
: As this question relates to the business of the House, my hon. Friend will not be surprised if I answer it. I have seen the Notice of Motion, to which, in view both of the importance of the subject and the number of signatures attached to it, His Majesty's Government have given careful consideration. I should be glad if my hon. Friend would be good enough to confer with me before taking further action.The LEADER of the HOUSE (Mr. Chamberlain)
: Yes; I am at my hon. Friend's disposal immediately after questions.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: By Article 99 of the Treaty of Versailles, Germany renounced in favour of the principal Allied and Associated Powers all rights and title over this territory. No decision has yet been reached regarding its eventual allocation.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I am afraid that I am not in a position to tell my right hon. Friend.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Is this a part of the "honourable understanding between men of honour"?Rear-Admiral Sir R. HALL
: How many breaches of the truce will be necessary before it is borne in on the right hon. Gentleman that the honourable understanding no longer exists?Sir R. HALL
80.  asked the Chief Secretary whether on 8th August, 1921, a man named Foley, one of a party of armed rebels, was captured in Bandon while seizing a motor car belonging to the wireless station, Royal Irish Constabulary; whether he was in possession of a revolver and dum-dum ammunition; whether he was tried by field-general court-martial and convicted; whether subsequently two members of the Royal Irish Constabulary were kidnapped; and whether Foley was then released in exchange for the kidnapped constables?Colonel BURN
: Was not this man in possession of dum-dum bullets?Colonel BURN
: I was chucked out the other night for less than that.Mr. J. JONES
: They will be released!Captain S. WILSON
de jure29: According to the latest reports from His Majesty's representative in Albania, the Jugo-Slav forces have now occupied Lurya and Oroshi and are continuing to advance. The Conference of Ambassadors, at their meeting on Saturday, were able to come to an agreement as to the frontiers of Albania, and these frontiers will at once be notified to the interested parties. The Serb-Croat-Slovene Government will then be summoned to withdraw their forces from
de jure29Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Will not this matter come before the greater League of Nations at Washington?Sir J. D. REES
(2) if a naturalised British subject, for an aggregate period of 20 years,(1) if a natural-born British subject, for an aggregate period of not less than 12 years since attaining the age of 50; and
(2) if a naturalised British subject, for an aggregate period of 20 years,(1) if a natural-born British subject, for an aggregate period of not less than 12 years since attaining the age of 50; and: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. One of the statutory conditions for the receipt of an old age pension by any person is that the person has had his residence in the United Kingdom—
(2) if a naturalised British subject, for an aggregate period of 20 years,(1) if a natural-born British subject, for an aggregate period of not less than 12 years since attaining the age of 50; and
(2) if a naturalised British subject, for an aggregate period of 20 years,(1) if a natural-born British subject, for an aggregate period of not less than 12 years since attaining the age of 50; andMr. YOUNG
: I must ask for notice of that question.Mr. YOUNG
31: Assistance received by claimants to old age pensions from friends is required, by Section 2 (1) of the Old Age Pensions Act, 1911, to be
31Mr. YOUNG
: No, Sir.Mr. YOUNG
: On the 30th September last there were in the United Kingdom 12,633 blind persons in receipt of old age pensions under the provisions of Section 1 of the Blind Persons Act, 1920. In Great Britain the number was approximately 72 per cent. of the number of registered blind persons between the ages of 50 and 70. I regret that a percentage for Ireland is not available. With regard to the last part of the question, steps were taken to bring these provisions to the notice of all agencies and institutions for the blind, and a public notice appeared in the Press.Mr. YOUNG
: Yes. I shall take that suggestion into consideration.Mr. YOUNG
44.  asked the Lord President of the Council whether the International Court of Justice will have jurisdiction in cases of maritime international law; and whether in that event Great Britain will be under the necessity of accepting the findings of a body of international jurists upon questions such as those with which the Declaration of London proposed to deal?Sir J. D. REES
34: The jurisdiction of the Permanent Court of International Justice will extend to all cases of maritime international law which are submitted to it by the parties to the dispute. Such submission to the court may be made either by a special agreement between the parties relating to the particular dispute in question or as the result of a general agreement for the reference of such questions to the court. Machinery for the reference of all disputes to the court is contained in the Optional Clause which is attached to the Protocol for bringing the Statute of the Permanent Court into existence, and States which have signed that Optional Clause will be bound to submit to the Permanent Court their disputes with other States relating to maritime international law. The United Kingdom has not signed the Optional Clause, and, therefore, so far as United Kingdom is concerned, no case relating to mari-
34Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Is the substance of that answer that the Foreign Office will not agree to submit the vital questions of maritime power to this tribunal?Sir J. D. REES
: I am afraid that the United Kingdom, not having signed the Optional Clause, no case will be submitted to the international court unless the Government of the day so refer it.Mr. HARMSWORTH
58.  asked the Minister of Labour whether his attention has been called to the hardship which is being caused to certain disabled ex-service men, who were placed in training in diamond-cutting at a factory at Wrexham, owing to the closing of that factory; whether there is any prospect of enabling these men to continue such training in another place; and, if not, whether he will direct that they be immediately given training in some other trade?Mr. EVANS
39: I assume the hon. Member refers to the cost-of-living index figure, published by the Ministry of Labour, by reference to which the Civil Service bonus is determined. For the purpose of provisional Estimates for
39Mr. YOUNG
70.  asked the Minister of Health whether his attention has been called to a decision in the Law Courts that a theatre is not a place of educational interest within the meaning of the Education Act, and that the expenses incurred by the London education authority in sending children to theatres at the ratepayers' cost should be surcharged; will he say what is the sum involved; who is going to pay it; and have the ratepayers of the County of London previously made representations against the cost placed on them by the education authority in respect of these theatrical outings?Colonel NEWMAN
: Is it not a fact that this unfortunate gentleman will have to pay out of his own pocket, although he was opposed altogether to the policy of the Education Committee?Colonel NEWMAN
41: I have already had under my consideration the position created in Zanzibar through the fall in the exchange value of the Indian rupee, and I decided
41Mr. WOOD
: Mr. Rutenberg, acting by the consent and with the co-operation of the Zionist Organisation, applied to the Palestine Government for the grant of a concession for the utilisation of the waters of the Rivers Jordan and Yarmuk and other rivers in Palestine for generating electrical power, and for the distribution of that power throughout the country. The project was examined exhaustively, both by the Palestine Government and by the Colonial Office, and it was decided that it would be advantageous to Palestine and its population generally that the project should be carried out. An agreement has therefore been entered into with Mr. Rutenberg, by which the Palestine Government binds itself to grant him a concession subject to his fulfilling certain conditions. No other applications for such a concession have been received from other parties, and, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, apparently no other person or organisation was in a position to apply for such a concession, or to carry the project out satisfactorily. As regards the third part of the question, Mr. Rutenberg, so far from intending to exclude Palestinian labour, may be expected to give employment to Palestinians in large numbers.Mr. WOOD
: I would rather have notice of the exact terms of the arrangement.Mr. WOOD
: No conclusions of the kind indicated in the first part of the question have yet been reached, and I think it would be premature for me to make any statement on the subject. With regard to the second part of the question, as the hon. Member is aware, the text of the draft mandate for Palestine has already been laid before the House. If the hon. Member wishes to ask for time for its discussion, I must refer him to my right hon. Friend the Leader of the House.Mr. WOOD
: I have no precise information by me, but, of course, my hon. and gallant Friend knows that it is not an official delegation.Mr. WOOD
: The Turkish press has admitted the execution of Greeks in the Samsoun and Bafra districts. As regards massacres at Marsovan, I would refer my hon. Friend to the answer given to the hon. Member for Consett on 26th October. Since then His Majesty's Government have received information that 950 Greeks and Armenians perished there in circumstances of barbarity. France is, under the Treaty of Sèvres and the Tripartite Agreement, the Power specially concerned with the protection of minorities in Cilicia, and His Majesty's Government are now discussing with the French Government the new Franco-Kemalist agreement. As these discussions are still proceeding, I cannot make any further statement at present in this House.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I have had information, or a rumour, to that effect.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I hope that it will be possible, but, obviously, that cannot be done without conference with the French Government.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: It is not possible for me to find a day—a question has already been put on the same subject—within the limits of the time to which we hope to keep the present Session. I would venture to point out to hon. Gentlemen that, as stated by my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs, discussions are still proceeding with the French Government, and it is obvious, therefore, that we cannot answer fully or really satisfy the purpose for which this Debate is desired if we have the Debate before this discussion has concluded.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
46: The hon. Member will realise the reserve imposed upon a Government when conversations—I was going to say were still proceeding, but, I should say, have just begun—between
46Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Parliamentary institutions have lost something of their hold upon the public. That may be due in part to a certain incontinence of Parliament as well as to the needless Parliamentary participation in discussions of this kind. I do not for the moment remember any particular occasion where Parliamentary discussion in this House has prejudiced a matter of foreign affairs. On the other hand, I do not remember a Member of the House having refused to refrain from such a discussion where the Government of the day was in negotiation in a matter which was still incomplete.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
47: I will, of course, consult the two authorities, first of all the authorities of the House to find out
47Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I answered a question about secret Clauses, of which notice was given, the other day. My hon. and gallant Friend might be so good as to refer to that answer.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Were the Government not aware that a Treaty of this nature was imminent so far back as June last?Lieut.-Colonel SPENDER CLAY
: We were informed that negotiations were proceeding, but we were given an assurance as to the scope of those negotiations. That is all, I think, that can be properly stated at this moment.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
48: I do not know that I can go into specific declarations or exact terms, but I think I can say in general language that the purpose of the Government remains the same. Whether it has the capacity to carry through that
48Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: As regards the business to-night, we propose to take the Committee stage of all the Supplementary Estimates. As regards the other question, my right hon. Friend has given me no notice of his intention to raise it, and I should be glad if he would give me notice in order that I might consult my right hon. Friend and hear what he proposes.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: In that case, we propose to take any Amendments which may come down from the other place on the Unemployed Workers' Dependants (Temporary Provision) Bill.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
Laughter"I should like to take some of the Rhondda miners to witness a Debate in the House of Commons, to see the wealthy land-lords coming up from their dining-rooms three-parts drunk. Some of them cannot stand, and some there are who have to hold on to their chairs in order to speak in the House of Commons.": Mr. Speaker, it is, I believe, the usual rule that any question of privilege should be raised as soon as possible after any breach of privilege has occurred. That, I hope, will be regarded as a sufficient excuse for my raising this matter, of which I only heard this morning, without previous notice to yourself. The hon. Member for West Rhondda (Mr. William John) is reported to have said as lately as Sunday afternoon
Laughter"I should like to take some of the Rhondda miners to witness a Debate in the House of Commons, to see the wealthy land-lords coming up from their dining-rooms three-parts drunk. Some of them cannot stand, and some there are who have to hold on to their chairs in order to speak in the House of Commons."Sir J. D. REES
: I apologise. That remark was provoked by some laughter opposite. I wish to ask you whether such a gross breach of privilege, making such scandalous and unauthorised charges against his brother Members, can be permitted to pass unrebuked and unpunished by the Chair on behalf of the House, when made by an hon. Member concerning his colleagues?Sir J. D. REES
: I understand that the matter which the hon. Member is now discussing does not come in this Vote at all, and we can only discuss matters for which money is provided by this Vote.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I understand that it does not come in this Vote. This money provides the Government's contribution to the Unemployed Workers' Dependants Fund.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Mr. Deputy-Speaker, you have put the question, as I understand it, of this supplementary sum of 22,192,000 for the Ministry of Labour. I have been lying in wait with reference to paragraph 4 of the Memorandum which relates to the Trade Facilities Bill. Am I or am I not in order in making some remarks upon the provisions of the Trade Facilities Bill, and, if not, where should they come in?Sir J. D. REES
: They do not come in now.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I know, Mr. Deputy-Chairman, that you will not allow any discussion upon anything that does not immediately arise out of this Vote. I wish to know what a young and inexperienced Member has to do when he finds an explanatory memorandum explaining the very Votes before the Committee, and when he proposes to deal briefly with one of those explanatory notes he is restrained under the rules of the House? The hon. Member for Spen Valley (Mr. Myers) was in the same difficulty. I think that either a discussion on these points should be allowed or the Departments should be restrained from making references in explanatory notes to which hon. Members are not allowed to refer in debate.Sir J. D. REES
: The matter is very clear. Under the Unemployed Workers' Dependants (Temporary Provision) Bill the Government contribution amounts to £2,192,000, and that is the sum we are discussing on this Vote. Beyond that the discussion is out of order.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Some obscurity still remains on one of the points which has been raised. We have an Estimate which I understand sets forth the total liability assumed by the State in respect of the Unemployed Workers' Dependants Fund. That shows a total liability of £2,862,000, of which £2,192,000 falls this year and £670,000 next year. During the passage of the Bill through the House a number of concessions were made, although not to the extent which some of us would have liked, but which the Chancellor of the Exchequer thought were very substantial, and they were estimated to cost about £500,000 or £600,000. All those concessions were made subsequent to the 19th October. This Estimate is dated the 19th October of this year, and that is prior to these concessions being made. What puzzles us is that this amount should include the concessions that were to be made. It also includes the concessions relating to Ireland. The Bill as introduced on the 19th did not include Ireland. This Estimate, which is dated the 19th of October, does include Ireland. It is difficult to understand how an Estimate produced before the concessions were made can make provision for them?Major BARNES
: That was not my point. My point was as to how an Estimate of £2,192,000, made before the Bill was introduced and before any concessions were made, still remains at £2,192,000 after the concessions have been made.Major BARNES
: That is for next year.Major BARNES
: It is perfectly true that the Bill has not actually passed both Houses of Parliament, but the principle of the Bill has passed this House, and I could not allow a general discussion on the Bill, or we should be discussing it all over again.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
100: That is quite true when the sum of money is for a new service, but this, I think, does not quite come within that category. It is for the purpose of providing the State's contribution to a fund which is already established. We cannot discuss here whether it was right to establish that fund, or the merits of that fund. All that we can discuss is how it is proposed
100The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: Will my right hon. Friend also explain why the Ministry of Health should be selected for the administration of unemployment funds when we have a Ministry of Labour?Mr. MacCALLUM SCOTT
112: I wish to concur with what has been stated by the hon. Member for Dunfermline Burghs (Mr. Wallace) and to ask the Minister of Health for a little further answer than that which has already been given to the right hon. Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean). The Minister of Health stated that Scotland's share would be given through the Scottish Board of Health and according to the needs, and not according to the scale. That sounds very well, but we want to know who is to decide what are the comparative needs of Scotland and of England. I presume that this Vote of £5,500,000 will be handed over to the English Ministry of Health. Is the English Ministry of Health to be the body to decide what grants are to be handed over to Scotland, or is a Committee to be set up, or what mode of procedure is to be adopted? This is an important matter.112Lieut.-Colonel Sir J. HOPE
113: I beg to move, to reduce the Vote by £100.113Mr. THOMAS
116115: We are discussing the largest and the most important of these Supplementary Estimates. Where is the Minister of Health? Where is the Minister of Labour? Where is the Chancellor of the Exchequer? Who is responsible? So far as I can see, practically the only Ministers on the Front Bench are Scottish representatives. Why have they come here in such force? I can assure them they are too late. They have missed the train. The English Minister of Health has already scooped the whole of this grant. It is no use their coming here at this time. They ought to have dealt with this matter beforehand, and their place now is not on the Front Bench. Their place is at Downing Street interviewing the Primo Minister to see why this state of affairs prevails. I wish to make some comments
116115Mr. MacCALLUM SCOTT
: Why not? Wales has to do it.Lieut. - Colonel WATTS - MORGAN
: Why should not the Minister of Health go cap in hand to the Secretary of the Board of Health of Scotland? I see that the Minister of Health has now returned to the Committee. It seems to me that at present the Scottish Ministers in the House are the only ones who take an interest in this subject, as they have been the only ones present on the Front Bench. Why should not the administration and allocation of this fund have been entrusted to them? It is a grant from the Treasury. In one respect the Treasury might have been the proper authority to allocate the money. There is only one Minister who is qualified, from a Departmental point of view, to allocate this fund, and that is the Minister of Labour. I wish to press this matter. My right hon. Friend dealt with it rather perfunctorily. Why is it that in a matter dealing with unemployment pure and simple, and the relief of unemployment, the Minister of Labour has not been trusted with the allocation of the fund? Why has it been necessary to call in a super-business man? Why should my right hon. Friend who, after all, is only Minister for a small English Department, overstride all the other Imperial Departments like a Colossus of Rhodes? Even at this late hour, the matter should be reconsidered, and we should have the Minister of Labour allocating this fund and rationing the Minister of Health in his own Department.Mr. SCOTT
: If my right hon. Friend will look at the Estimate he will find a sum of £5,500,000 allocated for the relief of unemployment. My right hon. Friend comes rather late in the day. I was dealing with the subject, and giving this information while he was absent.Mr. SCOTT
: This Vote will be accounted for by the Minister of Health.Mr. SCOTT
120: As the questions of forestry and land improvement have been raised, it would be for the general convenience if I should say a word as to the proposals of the Government under these heads. Let me say at once that the object we have in view is not, primarily, either
120The MINISTER of AGRICULTURE (Sir A. Boscawen)
: Is this really new money or is it being taken away from the grant which has already been made by Act of Parliament to the Forestry Commissioners?Mr. M. SCOTT
122121: I can answer that at once. This in no way interferes with the original forestry programme. Whether that programme is to be extended or curtailed in the future will not depend
122121Sir A. BOSCAWEN
118: This Vote will be accounted for by the Minister of Health. Why by him, and not by the Minister of Labour? I have dealt with that point, and I want to make a few remarks upon another very important branch of relief work. It is that portion which is referred to in the Minute as forestry. Afforestation is one of the most useful forms which relief expenditure on unemployment can take. It is useful in two ways. In the first place, it is a form of enterprise in which, under the supervision of a few skilled men, a very large proportion of labour can be employed, of the very kind which is unemployed at the present time. Men can be employed on clearing, draining, planting, and fencing, and the expenditure on afforestation is largely expenditure on labour. In the second place, its results do not disappear like water going into the ground. It leaves the State with a real valuable asset, for the expenditure which has taken place. In after years the trees which have been planted will be earning for themselves. They grow while we sleep. I believe that on this land which is most suitable for afforestation there is a larger profit possible to the State at the present time by means of afforestation, there is a larger possibility of wealth for the State, than by any other method of dealing with waste land. Those are strong reasons for encouraging expnditure on afforestation not merely in times of unemployment but in general. How much is it proposed to spend on afforestation at the present time? The sum suggested is £250,000. I wish to get some information on this head. Is there really to be an increase to that extent in the amount to be spent on afforestation? I have heard it suggested that while this special grant is being made this year that next year the expenditure—the ordinary expenditure, which was sanctioned before—will be cut down by an almost equivalent amount and that the Government are not really granting this extra money for afforestation, but are merely taking it out of one pocket and putting it into another. If that is so, what is the use
118Mr. SCOTT
125124123: Yes, and not only has it been brought up, but we have experimented with it. We did so immediately after the War. We were asked at my Ministry to embark on a big reclamation scheme in the neighbourhood of Wainfleet, on the banks of the Wash, for the purpose of employing people out of work, and we did something. We reclaimed 500 or 600 acres, but it was a very uneconomical proposition. An enormous hutted camp was necessary. We brought people from a distance, and there was no particular amount of unemployment at that time. What was the result? It cost us about £160 an acre to reclaim that land, and the land is not worth £40 an acre to-day, and I say that a mere uneconomical proposition, and one which would take more time and be of less use for the purpose of employing men immediately, I cannot conceive.125124123Sir A. BOSCAWEN
: I hope, as far as possible, to employ labour on the spot, but if there is transit it will have to be paid for.Sir A. BOSCAWEN
: Out of the grant.Sir A. BOSCAWEN
: No. That is why particularly I want, as far as I can, to get the labour on the spot, so as not to have to spend the money which should go in wages in other directions. We do not insist on paying only 75 per cent. in this case, because agricultural wages have been coming down, and Conciliation Committees are at work, and we do not want in any way to prejudice their activities in one direction or in the other.Sir A. BOSCAWEN
: Is the reason why the right hon. Gentleman has given instructions that the local rate shall be fixed because the wages have been coming down?Mr. THOMAS
127126: It is because they have been coming down and because in many places they are not yet definitely fixed. They are, if I may say so, rather in a state of flux, and I did not want in any way, especially having regard to the fact that agricultural wages are much lower than other wages paid in towns, to prejudice the Conciliation Committees either one way or the other. There was a question whether we should not pay navvy rates of wages, which, of course, are very much higher than agricultural rates, and this may be called navvy work, but I said: "No, we cannot pay navvy rates. We are employing people in country districts who are largely casual labourers and who cannot do an ordinary navvy's work, but on the other hand," I said, "I do not want to
127126Sir A. BOSCAWEN
129128: Some of the Members who have been addressing the Committee on this Vote complained of the temporary absence of Ministers from the Front Bench. I have to complain of the permanent absence all through these Debates of the only representative of Ireland on the Front Bench. While Bills were going through their First, Second, and Third Readings and the Committee and Report stages, we have not had the presence of the Chief Secretary for Ireland, so that I think I have good reason for complaining. I feel that if I were Chief Secretary for Ireland, which, thank Heavan! I am not, and never likely to be, I should see that Ireland got her fair share of everything going, and I should take an interest in the Bills as they were passing through the House. The Committee knows perfectly well that, during the past few weeks on these important questions, we had the greatest difficulty in getting some of this legislation applied to Ireland, and I think if the Minister who is responsible for my part of the country showed a little more interest, it would be a great help. I have been greatly interested in the speech made by the Minister of Agriculture, and that is just the position I would like the Chief Secretary to take up so far as we are concerned. The right hon. Gentleman has spoken with regard to the expenditure of his Department in forestry and drainage in connection with England, Wales, and Scotland. I was particularly interested
129128Lieut.-Colonel Sir W. ALLEN
: You know nothing about it.Mr. J. JONES
: Will the right hon. Gentleman state who is to decide as to the needs of Scotland. He told us that advances would be made according to the needs of that country. Will the amount be decided by the right hon. Gentleman himself or by a Special Committee?Lieut.-Colonel Sir J. HOPE
143142: Hon. Members may be impatient and wish to get to their
143142Mr. T. THOMSON
146145: By the amount of cheering which the speech of the Minister of Health obtained, one would have imagined that we were back in the days before the trade union movement became sufficiently respectable to receive political consideration. We are led to understand now that the work which is going to be given under the scheme proposed by the Government is work which is not highly desirable or necessary—it is simply a bone to be thrown to the dog. We are describing the schemes of work that are now going to be established under the Government's proposals as relief work, and they have been described as charity. Those of us who are members of local authorities as well as Members of the
146145Mr. J. JONES
: I am very pleased to hear that the Government are considering it. I hope that at the same time they will remember that Tommy Atkins made roads in France, and that the ex-service man, when he comes back after having learned his job in the face of German bullets, will be able to get the full trade union rate of wages when he does the same job without the same risk. We venture to ask, with reference to all this talk about uneconomic work, why, if we are going to apply this to labourers on the works of public authorities, should it not be applied to Cabinet Ministers? They are not all equally clever. Some of them shift their jobs so often that we do not know what they really are. One day they are Presidents of the Board of Trade and the next day they are Chancellors of the Exchequer. They have not got to put in six months' apprenticeship for their job. They automatically become qualified immediately for the full trade union rate of wages, and I believe they would go on strike at once if anyone suggested that they should draw less. In fact, I remember one of them who said he had been a trade unionist all his life, and because some of his critics pointed out that he was getting £5,000 a year when he himself said that no man was worth more than £500, he said he had been a trade unionist all his life and would stick to his job and stick to his price.Mr. JONES
: Yes; he never tried to blackleg his superiors.Mr. JONES
148: Yes, all good men do. But so far as we are concerned, we say that this circular is a direct attack upon trades unionism, whether you recognise it or not. Some hon. Members seem to be under the impression that the trade union rate is the last word in regard to wages. It is not. It is a minimum rate—a standard minimum rate. If an employer wants to encourage his men he will, as the best employers do, pay more than the standard rate and offer inducements by way of bonus over and above the standard rate. To us the trade union rate is simply a minimum. What is the situation to-day? The right hon. Gentleman says it is possible, on a relief job, to have men working and be receiving inure than skilled men would be receiving at their ordinary normal employment. I have administered these relief schemes in the past, and I suppose I shall have something to do with them now, and the right hon. Gentleman knows as well as I do that we cannot employ all the men in our own district who are out of work. We have 15,000 men out of work in West Ham, and no one imagines that we can find work for them all. All we can do is to divide amongst them as well as we can, on fair and equitable lines, the amount of work we shall be able to do. That will mean that we shall be able to give each man work about one week in a month, and yet we are told that while we can only give one week's work in a month, we must not pay the man trade union wages for the week's work that he does. What we ask for is liberty to pay and give the conditions suitable to the district in which we have to administer the scheme. Do not establish these cut-and-dried arrangements and tie us up with red tape. These men are not going to be employed regularly, but only intermittently, and therefore we say that it is a direct attack upon the standard of life, whatever hon. Members may say. We on these Benches, however much we may be misrepresented outside, cannot agree to the proposition that in this particular kind of work there shall be this reduction of the standard of life for the great mass of the workers. We have already suffered great reductions in wages. The right hon. Gentleman knows that, in a trade with which he is well acquainted, wages have gone down to £3 7s. 6d. a week. Would he like to maintain a family on that wage
148Mr. JONES
157: The Bills keep coming in. This is one of the most interesting little Bills that has beer before the House. Some time this year the Government and the House got rattled, and they passed proposals for the establishment of this defence force, and now we know how much it has cost. The amount mentioned by my hon. Friend is not the real cost. The real cost is not £6,720,000, but nearly £8,000,000. That is what an attack of nerves has cost the country. There was never in the minds of anybody who knew the country any necessity for this force. This is a Bill for carrying on a little war in which there was no enemy. It commenced by the Government taking powers to call up 300,000 men. For what purpose? Not to carry on operations abroad, but to carry on operations at home. The Government thought that the country was in such a state that it was necessary to raise an army of 300,000 men to meet the emergency. Events have proved the Government to have been entirely wrong. We are entitled to know why the Government persisted in this expenditure when at the time of the stoppage it was evident that there was not the slightest likelihood of any serious disturbances taking place. There may have been moments when the negotiations were going on when timid people could have justified the fears that they held, but when the actual stoppage took place it was clearly evident to anybody who knew anything about the country that there was nothing in the nature of disturbances likely to take place that could not be dealt with by the ordinary police force. Against the money that they have spent the Government have set off something which is called a saving. Why are these particular items set off against the total charge? A sum of £833,000 is put down as a saving on the Territorial Army, and that is set off
157Major BARNES
158: The hon. and gallant Member shakes his head. We find that the savings given under Head 2 result from the diminished recruiting for the Territorial Army and the smaller numbers attending training. I do not know whether the Minister is going to suggest that one result of raising the Defence Force was to diminish recruiting for the Territorial Army. It is extremely likely that it had that effect, and that when people who were likely to have joined the Territorial Force had brought before them such an illustration of the purposes for which such a force might be used they were dissuaded from joining it. If the Minister puts that forward as one of the advantages we have derived from the setting up of the Defence Force, he is entitled to put that saving down, but if he does not make that contention we are, to a certain extent, being hoodwinked as to the real cost of the force.158Major BARNES
: We cannot now discuss the question of the coal stoppage. The question now before us arises out of the action taken in April last when it was decided to vote the men. It will be quite in order to criticise the general action of the War Office since that Vote was granted as the hon. Member for Newcastle (Major Barnes) has done, but the hon. Member cannot go into the general question of industrial disputes.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I am obliged to you, Sir, for guiding me in the right direction, but I think I am entitled to some fuller information with regard to the grounds on which the decision was taken which has embarked the country on the expense in the Estimate. The advice we gave them is amply borne out in the fact that the Government have gone from blunder to blunder. Nobody has seemed to care what has become of the trade of the country, and the taxpayers are now to be called upon to meet an expenditure of nearly £7,000,000, which they should never have been called upon to pay. I think on that ground we are entitled to get some more information than we have got already.Lieut.-Colonel WATTS-MORGAN
: If our advice had been taken at the end of March or in April of this year, there would have been no necessity to bring this Estimate before the House. We complained of the measures and steps that were taken throughout March, and we went further, and pointed out through the month of April that all the steps that were then being taken, which would entail additional expense, were quite unnecessary. I am not going to follow the hon. Member who has just sat down. He dealt at some length with the advice that was given by somebody in authority, but who was entirely misguided and knew nothing at all about the coal trade or the miners engaged in it. We pleaded then that there was no necessity at all to embark upon a policy that would bring a charge upon the taxpayers of this country, but we were laughed at and told that we did not understand the situation. Early in March we pleaded here for an extension of control of the industry for six weeks. That would have cost, at the outside, anything up to £5,000,000. We were told that it could not be done. Member after Member on these benches said that if theLieut.-Colonel WATTS - MORGAN
: Does my hon. and gallant Friend consider that his rhetorical reply answered the fact that this is a violation of the undertaking given to put into effect the Lytton Report dealing with the substitution of ex-service men for women?Captain LOSEBY
: Is it not a fact that Major, Osborne himself is responsible for these appointments?Captain LOSEBY
68.  asked the Secretary of State for India who were the local officials of Bhagalpur who were responsible for the prosecution of Mr. Grant in the case in which the court entirely exonerated Mr. Grant, and animadverted upon the unsatisfactory manner in which the case had been investigated by the Bhagalpur authorities; and what steps have been taken by the Government of India in the matter?Sir C. YATE
66. 20 asked the Secretary of State for India whether he will take steps to see that Basante Kumar Roy, described in the Press as de Valera's emissary to India, is not granted per-
20Colonel Sir C. YATE
67.  asked the Secretary of State for India what was the total number of men enlisted in the Indian Auxiliary Force up to the 30th September, 1921, at the end of the first year of the existence of this force; and what is the estimated number of men in the country available for enlistment who have so far refused to enlist voluntarily?Sir C. YATE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman now see fit to recommend the repeal of the Mental Deficiency Acts?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Has the Colonial Office any information as to who is paying the expenses of this Arab delegation?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Can we have an assurance from the Government that the Treaty, as it appears in the Press, has no secret Clauses in addition, and, in particular, a secret clause authorising the French to hand over certain munitions of war to the Kemalist Government?Colonel WEDGWOOD
152Interruption: May I ask them what precautions they are taking, because there are some schemes where public authorities do benefit themselves, where there are housing schemes and where local authorities have bought a considerable area of land for housing? Then, if a road is made, through the land belonging to the local authority, the local authority will benefit, and no private landlord benefits in that case. Where sewering work is done by a local authority the public will get the benefit of the improvement. Is there any check on those schemes whereby those will be preferred where the benefit goes to the public rather than those where it goes to private persons? As far as I can make out, the whole of the schemes of the Minister of Agriculture will benefit private landlords, but with the great number of those where roads and sewering and playgrounds are concerned—because playgrounds can be put in these new areas of land that the, local authorities acquire—the improvement improves the public property, and I hope the two graces who are sound on this question will persuade the third grace to cut down his grants which go into private pockets and increase those which go into public pockets.152InterruptionColonel WEDGWOOD
: I think the right hon. Gentleman himself felt a little uncomfortable when he was trying to draw that subtle distinction between directly employed labour and contract labour. The contractor is to pay the full rate of wages because he can pick his men; but the unfortunate public authority, according to the right hon. Gentleman, has to select the most deserving class for work, and not the best workers, and therefore they must pay less wages. Does the right hon. Gentleman really believe that any local authority carries on its relief works on those lines—that they take the C 3 men in preference to the A 1 men to do the job?Colonel WEDGWOOD
150149: I should be sorry for the town council whose borough engineer selected his men according to their necessities instead of according to their ability to do his work. He would not do it. With so many unemployed to pick from, he would pick the men who he thought would do the work best. Everyone knows that the immediate result of this will be, not that the contractor pays the full rate of wages while directly employed labour gets 75 per cent., but that the contractor will come down, too; and as soon as the contractor in that industry comes down you will have wages all round being brought down to 75 per cent. As the hon. Member for Silvertown (Mr. J. Jones) said, it will be in effect a direct attack on labour all round in order to bring down wages. But what pleased me in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman was that the Government have discovered a matter of principle to which they must stick. It is true that they
150149Colonel WEDGWOOD
151: This Vote, I understand, is for £5,000,000 to assist in works connected with roads, reclamation works, draining, sewering, afforestation and light railways. It deals with all the things to which I have been referring. I know it is peculiarly annoying to landlords to have these things pointed out, but it is essential that we should all recognise that the expenditure of this money is not going to benefit the public pocket, but private pockets. Before I sit down I should like to ask a question of the two right hon. Gentlemen whom I see before me—one of whom was a great sup-
151Colonel WEDGWOOD
: We are providing £22,192,000 for Unemployed Workers' Dependants. Is that an estimate of what the Government will actually pay out or of what must be allotted to this year, taking into account the fact that subsequent years may be better, and that the Government may recoup part of their expenses at this time of specially bad trade? I want to know whether the total additional expenditure in this financial year is £2,192,000 or whether the Government are estimating for a further expenditure which will be repaid in future years as the fund goes on?Colonel WEDGWOOD
54.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury how many British blind people over the age of 50 are now, by recent legislation, in receipt of old age pensions owing to their inability to follow their employment; what percentage of those over 50 is represented by such recipients; and whether, in all cases, steps are taken to bring it home to such blind persons that they are qualified for the pension if they fulfil the conditions?Sir WALTER de FRECE
53.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury whether, in view of his statement in the House on 21st July, he is now able to publish the information he has collected showing the average rates of remuneration paid before the War and at the present time to the leading officials of the principal industrial and commercial concerns in the country?Sir WALTER de FRECE
: Arising out of this question may I ask whether this information was specifically promised in the House as a guide to Civil Service Salaries, and when it will be forthcoming?Sir W. de FRECE
: Cannot the right hon. Gentleman, from the point of view of equity, try to do what he can in this matter, as it is inflicting grave hardship on a number of small people?Mr. HERBERT
: If these honours have been conferred on Sir Basil Zaharoff, have they been conferred for the money that he has lent us?Mr. HERBERT
22.  asked the Minister of Agriculture whether he will consider the question of granting pay for corn cultivation of fractions of an acre this year in accordance with the pledge of the Agriculture Act; and whether he is prepared to introduce fresh legislation to carry out the intentions of Parliament in passing the Agriculture Act?Mr. A. HERBERT
27.  asked the Prime Minister how many foreign civilians have the two British decorations of the G.C.B. and G.C.M.G., and for what services they have been awarded these decorations?Mr. A. HERBERT
: I have been asked to reply. My hon Friend raised this question in his speech in Committee on 3rd November, and I would refer him to the assurances which I gave in the concluding part of my speech on the same day. The matter will be discussed with the Chairman of the Oversea Settlement Committee on his return.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for the COLONIES (Mr. Edward Wood)
: The system of regulating the wages of workmen of the building works departments of the factories at Woolwich, Waltham, and Enfield was recently considered by the Industrial Court, who found that the operatives' claim had not been established. Arising out of that decision, I am considering whether any equalisation of rates as between the three factories is justified, and I hope that a decision will be reached shortly.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the WAR OFFICE (Lieut.-Colonel Stanley)
indicated dissent. indicated dissent.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the WAR OFFICE (Lieut.-Colonel Stanley)
"I had rather stand at this box to defend over-insurance than wider-insurance when you have the condition of things with which we were possibly confronted about a week or a fortnight ago."164: Hon. Members opposite all along objected to the raising of the Defence force and the call-
"I had rather stand at this box to defend over-insurance than wider-insurance when you have the condition of things with which we were possibly confronted about a week or a fortnight ago."164Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
165: I cannot answer that question. I do not think the hon. Member expected that I either could or would answer it. Coming to the actual question of the Estimate, the hon. Member for East Newcastle (Major Barnes) argued that the Estimate was not for £7,000,000, but was really for something like £8,000,000. He argued that the saving which is shown under Head 2 was not really a saving. He is not correct in that. The saving was made up in this way. Before the coal stoppage, recruiting for the Territorial Army was very brisk. During the dispute, of course, there was no enlistment at all in the Territorial force. I may say, however, that the statement that the raising of the Defence Force prevented recruits coming in afterwards to the Territorial force is absolutely and entirely incorrect. They are coming in very well since. During that time, however, there was no training going on. The forces were so much below establishment that it was left to the general officers commanding to decide whether they would have training in camp or not, and the net result was a saving, as is shown on this Estimate, of something in the neighbourhood of £750,000. The hon. Member for Seaham (Mr. Hayward) asked what was the Supplementary Estimate of the 8th April. That Supplementary Estimate was presented on the 8th April and was voted on the 18th April. It was not a Supple-
165Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
: This is the whole sum. The previous Vote was only for the men. The hon. Member for Seaham then asked a question about the Unemployment Insurance Act, and he said there was some mistake by someone. There was not any mistake. A soldier in the regular Army is not insured while in the Army, because he is never unemployed there—he is always very hard worked—but on his discharge £7 a head is paid to the Unemployment Fund, and that insures him for twelve months following his discharge. When the Territorial force does its annual training, under the Insurance Act of 1912 they are treated as if they were civilians in civil employ—that is, there is no break in their status by reason of the short training, both the employers' and employés' contributions being paid by the Army. That was not the case in connection with the Defence force, and therefore it was held that the men of the Reserve and the Defence force were liable for that whole amount. If we had not paid it, the soldiers and others who had come up for the Defence force would not have been entitled to the maximum number of benefits after the end of the time. I may point out that this £1,000,000 goes to the Unemployment Insurance Fund; it is not a direct out-payment except to the Unemployment Insurance Fund. There is no mistake about it. In future it will not be so, because in the Insurance Act, 1921, a Clause was inserted directly dealing with this point. I think I have answered all the questions that were put about the Estimate, and I hope the Committee will now allow me to have this Vote.Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
: I have not considered that question. Obviously the Committee will have to be appointed again in the next Session of Parliament. It cannot be carried on after the Prorogation.Colonel LESLIE WILSON (Joint Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury)
: If General Byrne had not been appointed, why was he allowed to have access to the secret funds?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: May I ask the question of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary?Colonel ASHLEY
: If the Prime Minister states that it is not within his knowledge, but it is within the knowledge of one of his subordinates, surely it is in order to ask the Minister who is sitting there on the Front Bench?Colonel ASHLEY
: May we take it that the Government encourages and approves of Sinn Fein courts unless there is some grave intimidation practised?Colonel ASHLEY
: What Sinn Fein courts does the Government approve of?Colonel ASHLEY
: Then if similar courts are set up in the Communist district of Glasgow, does the Government approve of it?Colonel ASHLEY
133: I do not want to speak on the schemes of afforestation and land drainage. I merely want to ask the Minister one or two questions. I think his schemes will do a lot of good for the employment of those who cannot find work, and if they are properly administered we should have a tangible result for the money spent by the State. As regards the employment of the unemployed, I understand that both in the scheme for land drainage and in the scheme for afforestation the Minister—quite rightly—proposes so far as possible to make use of local labour. I recognise from his speech that he understands that agricultural labourers, who will chiefly be affected by this proposal, are not under the Unemployed Insurance Act, nor do they register at Labour Exchanges. I should like to ask him how he is going
133Captain FITZROY
48.  asked the hon. Member for the Pollok Division of Glasgow, as representing the First Commissioner of Works, if he is aware that a surveyor in the Directorate of Works, a Mr. C. V. Cable, Lic. R.I.B.A., F.S.I., an ex-service man, married, and with a family dependent, has been recently discharged, and that a Mr. Wrennell, also a surveyor, but who has no degrees, is single, and a non-service man, has been retained, in spite of the protests raised by the ex-service representatives; whether the First Commissioner will take steps to have Mr. Cable reinstated in his place; and if the First Commissioner will, in view of the number of temporary technical non-service staff employed in the Office of Works, cause a substitution committee to he set up to deal with the technical staff on the lines recommended by the Lytton Committee, and which has already been done in the case of the clerical staff?Mr. RAPER
6.  asked the President of the Board of Trade when the traders' panel to be set up by his Department under the Ministry of Transport Act will be appointed; and whether he will take the advice of the Timber Trade Federation of the United Kingdom as to their being suitably represented on this panel?Mr. RAPER
: In view of the fact that the timber trade represents one-third of the total goods traffic of the English railways, will the right hon. Gentleman give a promise that there will be at least one representative of the timber trade, and that that representative shall be approved by the Federation representing the entire industry?Mr. RAPER
15.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Transport when the Rates Advisory Council will be set up?Mr. RAPER
38.  asked the Prime Minister whether he can give any further information about Albania; and, in particular, whether any action has been taken under the Covenant of the League of Nations to prevent the neighbours of that country from attacking her?Lord R. CECIL
: With the permission of the House, I should like to express my warm gratitude to my hon. Friend.Lord R. CECIL
: Is it not common knowledge—has it not been asserted from the Treasury Bench—that Parliamentary institutions are not in such a strong position as they were, and can the right hon. Gentleman give a single instance where any question of this kind has been seriously prejudiced by discussion in this House?Lord R. CECIL
: Does not the right hon. Gentleman think it would be a very serious stigma on Parliamentary institutions if this House were to separate after a question of this gravity has been raised without any discussion on it at all, and would it not be possible for the right hon. Gentleman to consult the authorities of the House to see whether it would be possible to raise the question on the Second Reading of the Consolidated Fund Bill?Lord R. CECIL
: I will put a further question to-morrow.Lord R. CECIL
: Is it possible to lay on the Table of this House a copy of the agreement between the Kemalists and France?Lord R. CECIL
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the 4-lb. loaf is being sold in Scotland to-day at 8d.?Major KELLEY
1.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether he is aware of the widespread public belief that the price of a loaf should not, under present conditions, exceed 9d.; and whether he has any information to show that undue profits are being made in its production?Major KELLEY
7.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether he can give the value of our imports of iron and steel during the most recent month for which figures are available and the value of the home output of similar goods during the same period, as also the value of British iron and steel which was exported?Major KELLEY
28.  asked the Prime Minister whether the sinking of new collieries or the completion of sinkings interrupted during the War is among the works of public utility for which assistance may be given from the £25,000,000 fund which Parliament is now asked to authorise?Major KELLEY
131: I think the right hon. Gentleman will find that the Bill as reprinted distinctly says the 1st April, 1923, so far as Clause 3 is concerned; that is, the local authorities must repay temporary loans in the other three countries by 1st April, 1923, and the Scottish Measure is for a period of five years. Therefore, I may congratulate my friends in Scotland on having secured so much better terms. Of course, if my right hon. Friend shows that I am incorrect, I am prepared to withdraw anything I have said. I have considerable sympathy with the right hon. Gentleman who proposed this reduction. From the peculiar state of affairs that exist, certain local authorities pay different wages for the same work. There is something peculiar about that, and I think it is a matter really for adjustment. It would appear that the particular circular of October, to which reference has been made, in which the wages question has been mentioned, is headed "England and Wales." I wonder will the same curious conditions obtain in regard to Scotland and Ireland? I think it is very interesting. The right hon. Gentleman does not tell us that a similar circular was sent to Scotland and Ireland. I doubt very much whether there was any circular sent to Ireland, because the Bill as first introduced did not apply to Ireland. The result of it all is that Scotland, Wales, and England have had the advantage of knowing that these Measures were about to be introduced, and have had their schemes prepared and sent in.131Sir W. ALLEN
: Is there any Member on the Committee representing Ireland?Sir W. ALLEN
: May I ask with regard to this sum of £5,500,000 for the purposes of land drainage and forestry, if it applies to Ireland, and if a penny of it is to be spent in Ireland? I am afraid I was not present when the right hon. Gentleman dealt with that point.Sir W. ALLEN
114: I desire to emphasise one point which affects the smaller Scottish boroughs in a bad way. So far as Scotland is concerned, land reclamation and drainage have been found to supply a very good and useful method of providing work for the unemployed. I could mention one borough council by which a great deal of land has been reclaimed and considerable work given to the unemployed for seven or eight months
114Major W. MURRAY
73.  asked the Secretary for Scotland whether he is aware that the unemployed in Scotland tend to remove to the cities and country towns, and whether, in connection with the proposals under consideration for special assistance to those undertaking land drainage and reclamation, he can by any means remove the difficulties obstructing burgh councils from reclaiming land out-with their boundaries for the relief of unemployment?Major W. MURRAY
12.  asked the Secretary for Mines whether the Government have now decided on their proposed legislation with regard to compensation for subsidence in mining districts; and whether the Bill will be introduced this Session in order that it may be fully considered during the Recess and passed into law next Session?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether it is two years or three years since this promise was given?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that 100,000 people are preparing to fly from Cilicia if this is put back under the Turkish Government, and were not many of these people sent there by the authority of the British Government?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: Can we have an assurance from the right hon. Gentleman that this Amendment does not alter the sense, and that it is only drafting? I have only just seen the Amendment, and it is rather difficult to follow at the present moment. Can he assure us that the Bill, as it left the House of Commons, is not substantially altered in regard to the housekeeper and the unmarried wife?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: The permanent members of the Railway Rates Tribunal, constituted under the Railways Act, 1921, to which my hon. Friend doubtless alludes, have been appointed by His Majesty. The President is Sir Francis Gore-Browne, K.C., Chairman of the Rates Advisory Committee; the member experienced in commercial affairs is Mr. G. C. Locket, of the firm of Messrs. Gardner, Locket and Hinton; and the member experienced in railway business is Mr. W. A. Jepson, late Assistant General Manager to the London and North Western Railway.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of TRANSPORT (Mr. Neal)
: Have not the manufacturers in this country always had a grievance against the general policy of the Foreign Office, which has never been used to advance their interests in foreign countries?Mr. SAMUEL
: Will the hon. Gentleman publish the report when it arrives at Buenos Ayres, if it arrives when the House has risen?Mr. SAMUEL
16, 19 and 20. 15 (1) asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he has requested His Majesty's representative in the Argentine to make inquiries of the Argentine Government on the subject of what appears to be the confiscation of British investments in Argentina owing to the partial repudiation by the Argentine Government of the obligations it undertook under the Mitre Law to British shareholders in Argentine railways; whether a reply has been received; if so, whether he will, when he has communicated that reply to the House, for ward it to the United States Government for their information;15Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
: Is there any ground for the allegation that banks are not giving credit to those who are willing to give employment?Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
: Your information is wrong.Mr. HOPKINSON
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that the present parlous state of this industry in this country is very largely due to the outrageous prices which are being charged by machine tool makers in this country?Mr. A. HOPKINSON
: As I stated in answer to a question from the hon. Member for St. George's on the 31st ultimo, His Majesty's Minister at Buenos Ayres is furnishing a full report on the situation. This report is on its way, and may be expected to arrive shortly. As soon as it arrives it will be given the earnest consideration of His Majesty's Government, but until that is done there is no further information which I can usefully give the hon. Members.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
: I think that is entirely conditional.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I am well aware of the great importance of the matter.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: That is entirely contrary to my experience.Mr. HARMSWORTH
84.  asked the Financial Secretary to the War Office whether consideration has been given to the memorial presented on behalf of all grades of building trade workmen employed at Enfield and Waltham that they should receive the same rates of wages as those employed at Woolwich; and, if so, will he state the result of such consideration?Mr. BOWERMAN
40. mutatis mutandis, asked the Prime Minister whether he is aware that old age pensions have sometimes to be refused to persons residing in the United Kingdom if previously they resided in some other part of the British Dominions; whether, in order to remove this hardship, he will introduce in the current Session legislation to provide that any such previous residence in any part of those Dominions shall, in the case of claimants resident in the United Kingdom, be regarded as residence in the United Kingdom; whether a similar hardship is involved in any old age pension scheme of any other of those Dominions; and, if so, whether he will communicate with the Dominion Governments concerned with a view to their extending favourable treatment on similar lines, mutatis mutandis,Mr. BOWERMAN
: Does the same apply to the discharged men in the diamond-cutting factory at Brighton?Mr. C. THOMAS-STANFORD
33: I really think that if I am to be examined about details
33The PRIME MINISTER
: I think that notice ought to be given of that question. I do not know anything about the organisation of the Department.The PRIME MINISTER
: No successor has yet been appointed. The position is an important one and the Government are anxious, if possible, to secure the services of someone who acquired experience and distinction in that branch of work during the War. I cannot say whether we can succeed in doing so before the House rises, but we are losing no time in making the necessary inquiries.The PRIME MINISTER
: Notice ought to be given to me of that question. My knowledge of the facts only leads me to the conclusion that General Byrne was invited, that the position was offered to him, but had not been accepted, and I also understand that it had not received the approval of the Treasury.The PRIME MINISTER
: The House by an overwhelming majority has confirmed the decision of the Government to enter the Conference, and in the course of the Debate the position of the Government was again stated by myself and the Leader of the House. But no Conference could proceed if each fresh rumour as to its discussions or as to the attitude of the Members taking part in it were to be made the subject of Parliamentary question and answer. I must therefore very respectfully urge my hon. Friends not to press their questions.The PRIME MINISTER
: Yes, I do realise that, and so do all my colleagues.The PRIME MINISTER
: That is exactly the same question put to me in a different form.The PRIME MINISTER
: The hon. Gentleman had better put down on the Paper any suggestion which he has to make.The PRIME MINISTER
: So far as I have been able to ascertain, this distinction has not been conferred on any foreign civilian.The PRIME MINISTER
: I do not know.The PRIME MINISTER
: Yes. We have communicated the decisions of the Conference. As a matter of fact, we have circulated a draft Bill for approval.The PRIME MINISTER
: No replies have yet been received from the Dominion Governments in this matter. I cannot make any statement as to legislation thereon next Session. The matter was brought before the Conference and they unanimously adopted the suggestion made and we are now awaiting replies from the Dominion Governments in the matter. I am anticipating favourable replies. The methods adopted depend on legislation in the Dominions.The PRIME MINISTER
: I do not know whether he has received them or not.The PRIME MINISTER
: The Government have given consideration to Lord Ashfield's proposals, and have informed him that they cannot promote legislation to give the protection against competition asked for. At the same time they have suggested to him the desirability of proceeding with these important works for the extension and improvement of London traffic facilities, both from the point of view of their permanent value and the great assistance they would give in relief of the problem of unemployment. The matter is still under discussion with Lord Ashfield.The PRIME MINISTER
: I am aware that most of the West Indian Colonies have extended to the United Kingdom the benefits of the preferential tariff arranged with Canada for a period of ten years. Representations have been received that the preference accorded by the United Kingdom should be assured to these Colonies for a similar period, and this suggestion is now being carefully examined.The PRIME MINISTER
: My right hon. Friend's suggestion will be considered by the Government.The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
: If the Committee stage on the Supplementary Estimates be finished before 10 or 9.30 to-night, what other business do the Government propose to take? Are there any Lords Amendments to be taken?Sir D. MACLEAN
: One other point. Is the amount to go to Scotland to be allocated on the eleven-eightieths basis, or is it to be administered in accordance with the needs of Scotland insofar as the money will go?Sir D. MACLEAN
102: I notice that although this Vote applies both to Scotland and England, it has to be administered by the Ministry of Health. There are Government Departments, the Ministry of Labour, for instance, which
102Sir D. MACLEAN
: On that point of Order. While I am not in favour of obviously unnecessary repetition of arguments which have been previously used, I would put it to you, Sir Edwin, for the purpose of safeguarding the rights of Members in Committee, that, where a new service is proposed, as is now the case, so far as I am able to understand, Members are open to raise the whole question in Committee even though it may have been debated in other stages. I admit that the whole question of the principle of differentiating between what is insurance and what is not would be outside the scope of the discussion, but I submit that matters which are raised in connection with such a grant of money as this are open to discussion by the Committee, even though the arguments have been used on other stages of the Bill, to which, of course, this is closely related.Sir D. MACLEAN
: What is the position of the reserve fund? Will any surplus that may occur fall into it? Happily, some time ago there were substantial reserves, and can the right hon. Gentleman tell us what is the position now?Sir D. MACLEAN
: I would refer the hon. and gallant Member to the answer given by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer on Wednesday last to the hon. Baronet the Member for Wrexham.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Hilton Young)
: When discussion of this Vote was interrupted on Thursday night last, I was asking the Minister for Labour if he would be good enough to give us some further explanation. I notice that the Estimate is dated 19th October, which probably accounts for the fact of my not being able to make it agree with the report of the Actuary. Since that date there have been various concessions which will undoubtedly increase the final charge upon the Treasury, and it would be an advantage if the right hon. Gentleman would put it on record what the final estimate of this charge is likely to be.Mr. HAYWARD
: I do not propose, and was not proposing, to enter into a general discussion such as took place on the Second Reading and during the Committee stage of the Bill. I was directing my observations to one point of a purely financial character, and it was only from that point of view that I was considering the Bill. My point was that it was not fair to the contributors who are to pay this money that, if there is any balance over and above their contributions, it should be paid into another fund altogether. The only other matter that I desire to point out is that in the case of boys, girls, unmarried men, unmarried women, married men without dependants, and married women without dependants, you are exacting a contribution for which they derive no benefit whatever. They are covered from no risk and insured in no sense whatever, and that, I say, is a most unjust procedure.Major HAYWARD
99ad hoc: There is one point of principle and of policy which has arisen out of this discussion, and which, although small, is important. We are told that, if there is any surplus in the fund at the end of the period, it is to be paid over to the Unemployment Insurance Fund, as provided in the Bill. I think I am entitled to discuss that as a matter of policy, because this is a new service. The right hon. Gentleman himself has told us that this has nothing to do with the Unemployment Insurance. Fund, but is an 99ad hocMajor HAYWARD
"To obviate this unexpected result for the future, an Amendment was made in the Unemployment Insurance Act of 1921.""The Charge under Head VI for Unemployment Insurance represents a lump sum of £7 per head payable under the wording of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, to the Unemployment Fund for each man of the Army Reserve and Defence Force reverting to civil life, in respect of the short period of emergency service now given.""The bulk of the expenditure under Head 1 consists of the maintenance cost of the Defence Force and the officers and men of the Reserves recalled to the Colours, whose numbers were voted in the Supplementary Estimate for Vote A, dated 8th April, 1921."160: I thoroughly agree with the observations of the hon. Members
"To obviate this unexpected result for the future, an Amendment was made in the Unemployment Insurance Act of 1921.""The Charge under Head VI for Unemployment Insurance represents a lump sum of £7 per head payable under the wording of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, to the Unemployment Fund for each man of the Army Reserve and Defence Force reverting to civil life, in respect of the short period of emergency service now given.""The bulk of the expenditure under Head 1 consists of the maintenance cost of the Defence Force and the officers and men of the Reserves recalled to the Colours, whose numbers were voted in the Supplementary Estimate for Vote A, dated 8th April, 1921."160Mr. HAYWARD
: May I draw attention to the fact that an hon. Member is reading a newspaper in this House? Is it in order for him to do so?Mr. HAYWARD
: On a point of Order. May I ask your ruling as to what a Member should do in the event of ascertaining that another hon. Member—the hon. Member for West Rhondda (Mr. W. John)—has made a statement in the Press—Sir F. BANBURY
 (by Private Notice)asked the Leader of the House how far he proposes to proceed with the business of Supply to-night, and whether the House will have an opportunity of listening in the Debate to the explanation of the Home Secretary in regard to the cases of Sir Basil Thomson and Sir Joseph Byrne?Sir F. BANBURY
: Will the Government do something more than regret breaches of the truce?Sir F. BANBURY
"The miners, who fought a hard battle, have upheld their reputation for stubborn tenacity; and for orderliness; while disorder has been so rare that the few instances in which it may have occurred are not worth remembering. Certainly nobody is a winner."159: I only want to show that the Government provoked the whole business. At any rate the Government were responsible for calling up the military forces when there was no necessity to call them up. The country was never
"The miners, who fought a hard battle, have upheld their reputation for stubborn tenacity; and for orderliness; while disorder has been so rare that the few instances in which it may have occurred are not worth remembering. Certainly nobody is a winner."159Mr. BARKER
: The Minister of Health said this afternoon that if it had not been for the coal stoppage the Government would have had very much more money to deal with the problem of unemployment. That is the truth; but the fact that the coal stoppage itself took place was largely the fault of the Government who decontrolled the mines six months before the statutory time for decontrol. Then, again, after the Government had decontrolled the mines the coal-owners served notice upon every man and boy in the mining industry for the purpose of reducing wages in many cases by no less than two guineas a week.Mr. BARKER
: The coal stoppage!Mr. G. BARKER
: Will the hon. Gentleman consider the advisability of having that notice posted in the offices?Mr. G. BARNES
: Will the right hon. Gentleman undertake that the prices shall be published, so that people may know the difference between the wholesale and the retail prices?Mr. G. BARNES
132: I am afraid the right hon. Gentleman the Minister of Agriculture has under-estimated the number of unemployed in the villages of the country. I should like to remind him that the small schemes to which he has pointed to-day of land, drainage, and afforestation will not meet the case. The rural workers are in a very bad position. If he means to do something, he had better do it quickly, because delay in this matter is as bad as it can be for the villagers. We have heard it said before that some of this unemployment was due to high wages, strikes, and lock-outs. I did not believe it when it was said against other classes of labour. It cannot be said here in reference to the agricultural classes. Unemployment to a large extent is beyond their control. Some of this unemployment in the country is caused by bad farming, and this can be altered. The land drainage scheme is far too small. We have thousands of acres in England lying absolutely derelict which could employ thousands of the unemployed if this land was brought under a proper system of drainage. As has been pointed out by my hon. Friend for the Holland Division (Mr. Royce) and myself, if this were carried out in an efficient manner these acres could be made to produce food.132Mr. G. EDWARDS
4.  asked the President of the Board of Trade if he is aware that one firm in this country uses from 25,000 to 30,000 gallons of milk per week in the preparation of infants' food and that pure milk sugar, an essential ingredient not produced in this country, is subjected to a 33⅓ import duty; and whether, seeing that such a duty will discourage milk production and increase the price of infants' food, he will at once cancel the duty?Mr. LAMBERT
: Did not the right hon. Gentleman on the 12th May specifically state that food in its widest sense would be excluded from the Schedule? Therefore, why does he by administrative act include it?Mr. LAMBERT
: Is it not a fact that pure lactose is used in the preparation of infants' food? Surely infants' food is a key industry.Mr. LAMBERT
35.  asked the Prime Minister if he will appoint a small Commission, open to the Press, to ascertain how far the price of coal, increased railway charges, alleged trade union restrictions on output, double postage, high taxation, and other causes are so increasing the cost of production of British manufactured goods as to seriously restrict the demand for them?Mr. LAMBERT
: As the matter has been hanging over for two years, when may the Lithuanian Government expect to receive a decision?Mr. LAMBERT
36.  asked the Prime Minister when it is proposed to hand over the port of Memel to Lithuania, having regard to the fact that on the 16th June, 1919, the Allied and Associated Powers rejected the contention of Germany that Memel should remain under German sovereignty and affirmed that the port of Memel was the only sea outlet for Lithuania?Mr. LAMBERT
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. Miss Osborne is an ex-service woman and is employed not as a clerk, but in a non-substitutable post. It is understood that Mrs. Lackey is dependent upon her earnings for her own support and that of her son, aged 11. Her case has, however, recently been considered by the local substitution committee, who have recommended her discharge.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of PENSIONS (Major Tryon)
: I must express my regret that the Anti-Waste League should have associated itself with an attack on an officer who has got 35 years' service in the R.A.M.C., 15 years in South Africa, and 5 years of active service in France. I should have thought it might have protected him from the criticism of the Anti-Waste League.Major TRYON
: The employment of a gallant officer who served for 35 years is not in violation of any pledge to substitute men for women; and his daughter, who is continuing to be employed, is an ex-service woman and is not depriving any man who has similar qualifications.Major TRYON
91: The present position of the National Employment Insurance Fund raises a matter of some consequence. If I understood the
91Sir GODFREY COLLINS
: Yes, that is the period to which I am drawing attention. I wish to know what will be the position at the end of the present financial year of this unemployed fund. Is this large sum to come out of the pockets of the taxpayers this year? I understand that the right hon. Gentleman is borrowing the money through the Treasury.Sir G. COLLINS
96: We now learn that the deficit at the present time is not £6,000,000, but £4,250,000, and we are paying out of the fund about £1,000,000 per month. I understand the deficit came into being towards the end of June. Since then about four months have elapsed, and it is mounting up at the rate of £1,000,000 per month. At the end of the financial year, if the present rate of unemployment is maintained, the deficit on the Natonal Insurance Unemployment Fund will be very considerable, as I have already pointed out. I am anxious to support the point raised by the hon. Member for East Newcastle (Major Barnes) in connection with the total sum which the Committee is asked to vote this afternoon. My hon. Friend very rightly pointed out that this Estimate was printed on the 19th of October. Let me remind the right hon. Gentleman of the concessions which he made during the
96Sir G. COLLINS
: Yes, under the Act. Is this deficit to fall on the national revenue this year, or is he going to side-track, so to speak, that deficit and place it on future years? This is a subject which has only arisen during the short Debate this afternoon, and the deficit is mounting up month by month. If that continues I want to know if the Minister of Labour will be required to come to the House of Commons before the present financial year is over and ask for increased borrowing powers. In the Bill which is being referred to the Minister of Labour has, I believe, borrowing powers up to £10,000,000.Sir G. COLLINS
: I am glad that the right hon. Gentleman has large borrowing powers which will carry him over the present financial year. I wish to point out, however, that we are living on borrowed money. We are pledging the future, and the present position, bad as it is, is steadily getting worse owing to the policy of the Government.Sir G. COLLINS
: These men are under arrest, and they will be dealt with in the ordinary way.Sir H. GREENWOOD
28: Mr. Arthur W. Hunt was kidnapped by armed men who styled themselves members of the Irish Republican Army on the 22nd ult. The
28Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes; I can promise that.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: They certainly do not. This is considered a very grave matter indeed.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The police authorities are inquiring into the case, and it is obscure as to how this man came by his wounds. He was wounded at night by a revolver shot. I cannot say more until I get a report from my policemen?Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The answer to the first, second, and third parts of the question is in the affirmative. Mr. Shorter's car was returned five or six weeks ago.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: On the night of 30th October last Constable M'Carthy received a revolver bullet wound. The circumstances in which he was wounded are at present obscure. Until I have received the report of the inquiries by the police that are now proceeding, I regret I cannot give the House any further information in regard to this case.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am sorry that the answer does not deal with that point, but I will see that the hon. and gallant Gentleman gets an answer on that specific point.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The facts of this case are substantially as stated in the question. There were other irregularities in connection with the summoning of the jury, and as one member of the jury left immediately after the oath was administered, the inquest was not proceeded with, and a military court of inquiry in lieu of inquest will be held. The coroner has been asked to give an explanation.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Each case stands by itself. No one regrets more than I do any breach of the truce, but, under the terms of the truce, they must be dealt with in the way contemplated, or by force. I believe that it is my duty to deal with them in the way contemplated by the truce.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Foley was arrested, not in the act of seizing a car belonging to the Royal Irish Constabulary, but in the course of a search for a car which had been seized by Sinn Feiners some time before. As he was found to be in possession of a revolver and two rounds of ammunition, he was tried and sentenced as stated. As the result of further enquiries into all the circumstances, the Commander-in-Chief, while confirming the finding, decided to remit the term of imprisonment imposed. As regards the kidnapping of the constables referred to, it had been represented that this was an act of retaliation for the arrest of Foley which Sinn Fein regarded as a breach of the truce; Foley was accordingly not set at liberty until an undertaking had been given that the constables would be immediately released.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I consider it a breach of the truce, and I must take the only remedy that I am allowed to take under the truce.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The answer to the first and second parts of the question is in the affirmative. The matter has been taken up with the Chief Sinn Fein Liaison Official, but I am not yet in a position to inform the House of the result.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am informed that a Sinn Fein court was held at Kinsale on the 1st September, but that, though the authorities were aware that a court was summoned to meet on that day, they had no knowledge that a case of this kind, involving as it does a breach of the truce, would be dealt with. In regard to the last part of the question, the protection of the Crown forces will be accorded to any person claiming the same against any attempted interference with his personal liberty or property by an illegal court.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: Yes, I undertake, if this woman has been illegally fined, to recoup her.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I thought I had answered that. The only courts the Government approves of are courts legally held. If a court that is an arbitration court is held, whether it is held by Sinn Feiners or Loyalists, the Government is bound to approve of it, because it is a legal court, in Ireland or in England.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: No.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: What punishments are meted out to breakers of the truce every day?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Will breakers of the truce be punished in this case, and, if so, what punishment will be meted out?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: That is so. Why have these honours been given to this individual?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that Sir Basil Zaharoff has had these two honours?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: How many breakers of the truce have been punished?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Is it not a fact that a successor was appointed, and that Police Regulation No. 31 stated that General Sir Joseph Byrne was in charge of the Department under its new name? Was that not a document signed by General Horwood?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: On a point of Order. In view of the fact that you have not allowed me to ask a question of which I have given private notice with regard to the announcement in the Press that the Home Secretary was going to make an early statement, may I ask you if you have any knowledge when that statement will be made?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Is it not a fact that there are very strong millers' reasons on this question, and will he inquire further into the matter?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: I am very sympathetic to the case mentioned by the hon. Member, and I will look into it.Mr. PEASE
10: I have been asked to answer this question.10The ASSISTANT POSTMASTER-GENERAL (Mr. Pike Pease)
31.  asked the Prime Minister whether he will expedite the consideration by the Cabinet of Lord Ashfield's proposals for the extension of the system of transportation as outlined by him, in view of the fact that it would add no additional burden to the taxpayers and give immediate employment to thousands of men?Mr. ERSKINE
72.  asked the Minister of Pensions whether he is aware that Major Osborne is employed at the Ministry of Pensions Hospital, Denmark Hill, in the capacity of Controller, at a salary of £520 plus his retired pay of major; that Miss Osborne, his daughter, is employed in his office as clerk, a position that could be filled by an ex-service man; and that Mrs. Lackey, another daughter, is employed in the dispensary, a position which could also be filled by an ex-service man; and what he proposes to do in the matter?Mr. ERSKINE
: I must correct a misapprehension. The Anti-Waste League had nothing to do with it.Mr. ERSKINE
49.  asked the hon. Member for the Pollok Division of Glasgow, as representing the First Commissioner of Works, if he can state the intention of the First Commissioner in regard to the proposed bathing screen in Hyde Park?Mr. ERSKINE
8. 9 asked the President of the Board of Trade whether all the German ships allotted to this country
9Mr. GILBERT
10.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether the Government still hold any stocks of butter; if so, approximately, what quantities, and if it is Colonial or from other countries; and what action his Department are taking to clear such stocks?Mr. GILBERT
9.  asked the President of the Board of Trade the total value of the imports from Germany for the first nine months of this year; and how the same compare with the imports for a like period in 1920 and also in 1913?Mr. GILBERT
156: When the coal stoppage was on, many of us on this side of the House held the view very strongly that it was quite unnecessary, until the ordinary means of protecting life and property had been exhausted, to enrol any special defence force. We maintained that from day to day by argument, and the Government were never able during that period to adduce any single instance in which order could not have been maintained by the ordinary forces open to the Crown. Therefore this expenditure of nearly £7,000,000 has been entirely wasted. I was opposed to the policy of the creation of the defence force, and I shall vote against the Government having the money to pay for the force. One would like to know upon whose information the Government based the necessity for enrolling this defence force. We have had in the last few days something said in this House about the kind of information which is secured for the Government from the underworld of our social system outside. There is nothing more despicable in our public life than that kind of espionage. We are entitled to know, in the defence that the Government may make in asking for this Vote, upon whose information this plan was based. I know that I am correct in saying that it was an unnecessary force from the beginning to the end. It was the introduction into our industrial quarrels of a new factor, which was foreign to the public life of this country. It was
156Mr. HOGGE
: This Estimate is an echo of the coal strike.Mr. HOGGE
: This, then, is the whole sum?Mr. HOGGE
: I really did not ask that, because I heard the Prime Minister give that very futile reason. I asked on whose information the Prime Minister and the Government based their decision.Mr. HOGGE
177: Perhaps Mr. Speaker can assist us. I would ask you, Sir, if it be not possible to give permission for a Committee of this kind to sit while Parliament is not in Session? If not, it seems rather useless to set up a Committee for a
177Mr. HOGGE
: If that be so, may I appeal to the Government not to take this Motion? The House will prorogue on Thursday, and it is no use setting up a Committee that cannot meet.Mr. HOGGE
168Laughter: I think the reply given by my hon. and gallant Friend on behalf of the War Office is very unsatisfactory. You have just ruled, Mr. Deputy-Chairman—and I do not object to the ruling against repetition—that we cannot press the argument again about asking on whose information the War Office raised this Defence Force, but we can, of course, draw attention to the fact that it is possible for the. War Office, or any other Government Department, to spend public money to the extent of £6,750,000 and refuse information to the House on whose advice they spent that money, and we can, of course, vote against it. My hon. Friend the Member for Harrow (Mr. Mosley), who tried to put the point, must content himself with that as his protest, and I invite the Committee to vote against the Government because of the absolutely subversive nature of the reply which we have received. [168LaughterMr. HOGGE
: If this Committee is agreed to, can my hon. and gallant Friend the Joint Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury (Colonel L. Wilson) say whether it will meet after the Prorogation, and if it will report in the next Session of Parliament, or what scheme he has in his head with regard to it?Mr. HOGGE
: There is nothing in this Vote about parks or tubes.The CHAIRMAN (Mr. James Hope)
161: We have heard so much of saving and anti-waste in this House that we are astounded to find
161Mr. WIGNALL
57.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury whether the sales of surplus Government machine tools is adversely effecting trade and employment in the machine tool-making industry; and whether he will take into consideration the advisability of suspending further sales until trade conditions generally have improved?Mr. JAMES WILSON
: May I be allowed to say I conclude that my hon. Friend the Member for West Rhondda (Mr. John) has not had notice of any intention to raise this question; otherwise I am certain that he would have been here. If my hon. Friend has been correctly reported, I am quite confident, in view of the gravity of the statement attributed to him, that he will immediately see his way to make amends.Mr. CLYNES
: I wish to put a question on, a point of administration. The grants to be made from this fund are grants to wives and to dependent children. I conclude that the Department has taken some step to inform the employment exchanges and the local committees of the provisions of this new Act, and I would like to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman can tell us in what terms they have been so informed, and in what way the officers are required to give effect to the provisions of the Act? For instance, will the husband have to certify that his wife is his wife? Will documents proving the claim have to be produced, and if so, in the event of a certificate of birth in the case of a child having to be produced to secure 1s. per week, will it mean that the applicant will have to pay the cost of that certificate?Mr. CLYNES
: These are matters of importance. I am sure my right hon. Friend wishes to administer this Act with a minimum of domestic inconvenience in the case of any working-class members, and I would like some assurance in order that the husbands and the wives will he reassured, and not feel that they are being put to any undue trouble in the individual applications they will have to make for grants under this fund.Mr. CLYNES
: The Office of Works was anxious to preserve the notable ruins of old London Bridge, and approached the owners, who, however, were not prepared to incur the very heavy expenditure involved. The First Commissioner, moreover, regrets that the funds at his disposal made it impossible to contemplate a purchase, while a Preservation Order would suspend building operations now in progress for any period up to 18 months, during which time the Order would have to be confirmed by Parliament; and, as my Department could not guarantee such confirmation, it is possible that any such action might not succeed in preserving the archway.Sir J. GILMOUR
: I have no doubt my Noble Friend the First Commissioner of Works will take such action as is possible.Sir J. GILMOUR
: I am glad to make a statement on a subject which has given rise to misapprehension. In view of grave complaints from the public and the police, it is proposed to raise an easy and almost imperceptible gradient from below the Rotten Row footpath towards the Serpentine, which will screen off the ground, extending to within 50 yards of the footpath, now occupied by bathers when dressing and undressing. This will not mask the view of the lake, nor is it proposed to erect a tumulus or mound; and, in point of fact, the level of the existing turf will not be raised more than 33 inches at its maximum. The cost, estimated at £1,500, will be defrayed from sums already voted for park improvements to be executed by unemployed labourers, who are well suited for this type of work and who will be recruited through the Labour Exchanges.Sir J. GILMOUR
35The following is the answer: I will circulate the answer in the OFFICIAL REPORT.35The following is the answerSir J. GILMOUR (for the First Commissioner of Works)
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that one instance quite near home is the cable communication between this country and the Western Isles of Scotland?Mr. MILLS
11.  asked the President of the Board of Trade if he is aware that there are 100 ex-service cable-workers and 103 civilian workers in that industry registering as unemployed, in addition to many women usually engaged in the same industry, and that there is a shortage of cables on the trade routes and elsewhere; and if he will recommend to the Departments concerned the need for quicker decision as to renewals and development?Mr. MILLS
33.  asked the Prime Minister whether the Government have made any recommendation to the banks to the effect that they should extend better credit facilities to merchants, manufacturers, and traders generally, with a view to increasing employment; and, if so, whether the Government have received any communication from any of the banks in reply?Mr. MILLS
: In view of the magnificent way in which banks were treated in 1914, does not the hon. Gentleman see his way to put pressure on them to help to provide employment in this particular juncture?Mr. MILLS
135134: I should like to associate myself with the complaint which was made in such eloquent terms by the veteran leader of the agricultural labourers. The last speaker (Captain Fitzroy) has intimated his hope that the genuine unemployed, as distinct from those who may be mistermed unemployed, would be absorbed in any works of this character. There would, of course, be some genuine unemployed who would not be attracted by any possible scheme of relief, because under any set of circumstances they would get much more benefit than under any scheme proposed. Possibly another House and another Government might deal with this question of unemployment on a scale more adequate than that we are discussing to-night. In December, 1918, a long time before we
135134Mr. MILLS
: Does the right hon. Gentleman mean that a man working in a workshop under decent shelter would voluntarily go out to work on the road in the middle of January?Mr. MILLS
169: To ask the miners' section of the community for this Vote is little less than a scandal. I cannot understand how the Government can come with equanimity and ask for this Vote, especially when we understand that, owing to their policy, the industry has been brought into a state of bankruptcy and that they have thrown thousands of our men out of work. We all remember that we repeatedly put up protests against the foolish policy of the Government, that they were involving the country in a very large expenditure and embarrassing people whom they were calling up, with no other objective than seeking to crush the mining community into a state of poverty and getting men from the ranks of the miners to take sides with the employers against the mine workers, the men of their own class. What was more, we knew our own people, and their mentality and the psychology of the miners, and we tendered repeatedly advice to the Government which, had they listened to it, would have made them pause, and no such action would have been embarked upon, especially in the light of the finances of the nation. First of all, there was no need; in the second place, the finances of the country did not justify it. I think, therefore, it is within the right of any Members of this House to ask on whose advice the Government took the action they did.169Mr. SWAN
111"Payments to statutory bodies wilt be audited in accordance with the provisions of the relevant statutes, and payments to local authorities by the Ministry of Health auditor."110: I wish to direct attention to this question as it affects
111"Payments to statutory bodies wilt be audited in accordance with the provisions of the relevant statutes, and payments to local authorities by the Ministry of Health auditor."110Mr. J. WALLACE
: No, it is not.The CHAIRMAN
: It is quite clear that when the House has been prorogued the Committees of the House cease to function.Mr. SPEAKER
: It really does not arise from the question on the Paper.Mr. SPEAKER
: That would not arise from the question on the Paper.Mr. SPEAKER
: I am very glad that the hon. Gentleman will set a good example to the Noble Lord.Mr. SPEAKER
: The Noble Lord knows perfectly well that that is an improper expression.Mr. SPEAKER
: That does not arise here.Mr. SPEAKER
: I have no information as to the date.Mr. SPEAKER
: A question on that point is to be put by another hon. Member.Mr. SPEAKER
: It is a serious matter. The hon. Member will be good enough to address me, and not other hon. Members.Mr. SPEAKER
: That will arise on the next question.Mr. SPEAKER
: Notice should be given of that question.Mr. SPEAKER
50: This paper has only been put into my hands since I came into the Chair, and I have not had time to do more than glance at it, but it is so serious a matter that I can hardly believe the hon. Member (Mr. John) has been correctly reported in what the paper reports that he said about his colleagues in this House. I understand that the hon. Member is not available to-day, and I
50Mr. SPEAKER
: How many Members of Parliament call themselves "majors" or "colonels" who were never in the War?Mr. DEVLIN
: In considering this matter, will the hon. Gentleman see whether next Session there is any possibility of dealing with the whole of the recommendations of the Old Age Pensions Committee which sat last year?Mr. DEVLIN
: May I ask whether three loyal citizens were not recently murdered at the dead of night by special constables in Dublin, whether the men who committed this crime have been brought to justice, and whether there has been any protest from the other side against the murder of these innocent men?Mr. DEVLIN
83.  asked the Secretary of State for War if, with a view to appreciating the value of military titles, he will restrict the use of such titles to persons who have served or are serving with the fighting forces, and that the titles attached to persons engaged solely in recruiting during the Great War or serving on jobs at home should be annulled, so that such persons shall not be confused with real soldiers?Mr. SIMM
: I only want to urge on the Minister of Agriculture that he should not rest content with the money which he has obtained from the Government, and that instead of seeking to spend £600,000 he should go in for an outlay of not less than £6,000,000. Some real attempt might thereby be made to relieve the urban district and urban councils of a portion of their burden, and certainly work could well be found for at least 100,000 men if only the President of the Board of Agriculture would go back to the Government and ask for ten times the sum which has been granted in order that work may be done in agricultural areas.Mr. SIMM
144: I should like to express my disappointment at the statement we have had from the President of the Board of Agriculture. Many of us are of opinion that more relief should be given to overburdened areas. We have had lately a very interesting speech from the President of the Board, and that speech like the Debates which have taken place during the last fortnight contained more sound than substance. But I am very much afraid that after the right hon. Gentleman's statement this afternoon, he has whittled down what might be done under the head of land drainage almost to nothing. We are told that the Minister has managed to get a sum of £600,000 from the Exchequer for this work. We have altogether about 2,000,000 people out of work in this country. The right hon.144Mr. SIMM
: Is there any money for Ireland?Mr. SIMM
: Not out of wages?Mr. SIMM
: By whom?Mr. SIMM
: Does that include their transit to the work?Mr. SIMM
: What does local authority mean? Does it mean only a parish council?Mr. SIMM
108ex hypothesi107106: The Committee will have heard with great satisfaction of the large number of schemes which are being submitted by
108ex hypothesi107106Mr. NEVILLE CHAMBERLAIN
: I have not said anything of the kind, and it was on the ground of expediency. What I pointed out was that if you only pay 75 per cent. of the rate you get less work done than you are getting done now. When the right hon. Gentleman says that local authorities object to pay the full rate, how does he account for the fact that the Association of Municipal Corporations have passed a resolution protesting very strongly against the 75 per cent. rate?Mr. N. CHAMBERLAIN
56.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury whether the firm of James Archdale and Company, Limited, Birmingham, machine tool makers, who in normal times employ 500 men, are now only employing 240 men three days a fortnight and that the firm attributes this state of things largely to sales of Government machinery at excessively low prices; and whether he will consider the advisability of holding up further sales so as to avoid increasing unemployment in the machine tool trade of the country?Mr. N. CHAMBERLAIN
: Do I understand that we are not in order in pressing for an answer to arguments which have been advanced and which have been admitted by you, Sir, from the Chair in the case of other hon. Members?Mr. MOSLEY
166: I must confess that I anticipated a more adequate explanation of this Supplementary Estimate than has been accorded to the Committee. After all, at the time of the coal strike, when the House voted these Measures, the House and the country were faced with a great national emergency, and the House was without information of its own on the situation and accepted the word of the Government that the country was indeed in serious difficulties, and that real trouble was anticipated. That time of
166Mr. MOSLEY
: But it has not been answered.Mr. MOSLEY
: I submit that I am perfectly entitled to press the hon. and gallant Gentleman for an answer which he refuses to give to arguments that have been advanced in this Debate and which you, Sir, have ruled to be in order.Mr. MOSLEY
: If the argument is in order, then perhaps I am in order in pressing it.Mr. MOSLEY
109: I should like to emphasise the point that has been made by the hon. Member for Birmingham. The Ministry of Health, unless this Circular is amended, will come up against great difficulties in connection with the administration of the fund. I would remind the hon. Member who has just spoken that had he been here during the Debate earlier last week, he would have heard exactly the same points put forward by Members from the Labour Benches. It is only fair to the Minister of Health to give concrete cases as to how this Circular works. I am a member of one of the largest local authorities in this country, and I know full well that the opinions expressed there are very strongly against the provisions of the Circular. I will give the right hon. Gentleman a concrete case. At Cardiff 1,800 men were employed on relief work prior to the issue of this Circular. They were employed three days a week at a rate of wages for unskilled labour of 1s. 7d. per hour. After the issue of the Circular each man was employed for a full week at the 75 per cent. rate of wages, thereby reducing the number of men by one half. Instead of there being 1,800 men employed for half a week, half the men were employed for a full week.109Mr. RHYS J. DAVIES
: These people cannot earn the full rate, and yet they can contract for the full rate.Mr. R. RICHARDSON
: It would not be practicable to make the distinctions the hon. Member suggests. The actual use of the title in civilian life is left to the taste and discretion of the individual officer.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for WAR (Lieut.-Colonel Sir R. Sanders)
: I must ask for notice of that question.Sir R. SANDERS
: Was this a breach of the truce?Mr. R. McNEILL
: Has the right hon. Gentleman's attention been called to a statement by Sir Basil Thomson in the Press to-day, which, if it be true, shows that the information of the Home Secretary the other day was entirely inaccurate?Mr. R. McNEILL
43. 22 asked the Lord Privy Seal if he has any information to the effect that the representations of Sinn Fein are prepared to abandon the claim for Irish independence, provided that the Government consents to make certain modifications of the Constitutions set up by the Government of Ireland Act, 1920, in the direction of reducing the area under the jurisdiction of the Parliament of Northern Ireland or of changing the Constitution and powers
22Mr. RONALD McNEILL
: As the right hon. Gentleman has replied to my question also, while I very gladly accede to his request not to press it further at present, I would ask, does he realise that Question 43 is based upon an anxiety which is very generally shared by many of his most loyal supporters?Mr. McNEILL
77.  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether he is aware that a Sinn Fein court was held at Kinsale on 1st September, 1921, at which a woman who kept a public-house was fined for refusing to allow the Irish Republican Army police on her premises; whether the date of the meeting of the court was known to the military authorities at Kinsale, as well as the fact that this case was to come on for hearing; whether instructions were issued by the authorities that the court was not to be interfered with; and whether, since the authorities thereby precluded themselves from protecting the accused woman, he will say in what way such persons summoned before Sinn Fein courts receive protection?Mr. R. GWYNNE
: In the course of his speech a day or two since when the right hon. Gentleman induced many Members to follow him into the Lobby, did the right hon. Gentleman not say that, whatever else happened, Ulster would not be coerced?Mr. GWYNNE
: Has the right hon. Gentleman taken any steps to see to the money being refunded to this woman from whom it was taken illegally?Mr. GWYNNE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman tell us what Clause in the truce—for I see none—deals with a breach of the truce?Mr. GWYNNE
: Government stocks of butter, mainly from Australia and New Zealand, are disposed of to importers, without reserve as to quantity, at ex-store prices fixed weekly, on the basis of current market prices, after consultation with the trade. For reasons already given to the House, I do not think it would be in the public interest to disclose the stock figures.Mr. BALDWIN
: Apart from vessels transferred to Allies under special agreements, 423 ex-German vessels in all have been allotted to this country for sale. 392 of these have already been delivered, and 31 are still to come. Of the 392 vessels delivered 385 have been sold, 4 are awaiting sale, and 3 were lost before sale. Of the 385 vessels sold, 326 (gross tonnage 1,494,000) were bought by British subjects, 11 (gross tonnage 27,000) by Allies, and 48 (gross tonnage 195,000) by others.Mr. BALDWIN
£15,584,632January-September, inclusive, 1921
£15,584,632January-September, inclusive, 1921£20,647,207January-September, inclusive, 1920
£20,647,207January-September, inclusive, 1920£58,646,204January-September, inclusive, 1913
£58,646,204January-September, inclusive, 1913
£15,584,632January-September, inclusive, 1921
£15,584,632January-September, inclusive, 1921£20,647,207January-September, inclusive, 1920
£20,647,207January-September, inclusive, 1920£58,646,204January-September, inclusive, 1913
£58,646,204January-September, inclusive, 1913: The value of the imports into the United Kingdom, consigned from Germany, was as follows:
£15,584,632January-September, inclusive, 1921
£15,584,632January-September, inclusive, 1921£20,647,207January-September, inclusive, 1920
£20,647,207January-September, inclusive, 1920£58,646,204January-September, inclusive, 1913
£58,646,204January-September, inclusive, 1913
£15,584,632January-September, inclusive, 1921
£15,584,632January-September, inclusive, 1921£20,647,207January-September, inclusive, 1920
£20,647,207January-September, inclusive, 1920£58,646,204January-September, inclusive, 1913
£58,646,204January-September, inclusive, 1913Mr. BALDWIN
: Crude lactose, which is used in the manufacture of milk-stout, is not dutiable under any heading of the Schedule to Part I of the Safeguarding of Industries Act; the pure quality, which is used for the preparation of certain special foods, is dutiable as a fine chemical. As I have repeatedly stated, I have no power to exclude on any ground from the operation of the Act any commodity properly included within the general headings of the Schedule, but the question whether lactose is properly so included can be referred to the referee under Section 1 (5), and this I understand is being done.Mr. BALDWIN
: I believe that that is so.Mr. BALDWIN
: The reply involves a statistical statement, and I will accordingly, with the permission of the House, have it circulated in the OFFICIAL REPORT.Mr. BALDWIN
: The Department has permanent salaried representatives in 34 cities in foreign countries and in 12 cities within the Empire. It has, inMr. BALDWIN
: I have been asked to reply. I would refer to the answer given on the 2nd November to the hon. Member for Heywood and Radcliffe. In the circumstances it is not proposed to introduce, during the present Session, legislation relating to trade combines, which would obviously require considerable time for discussion.Mr. BALDWIN
: I will consider that.Mr. BALDWIN
: It is not correct to say that by administrative act I have included food. It is a point of argument whether refined lactose is a food. Crude lactose will probably be refined in this country if the decision of the referees is adverse to the claimants.Mr. BALDWIN
: It is a matter for the referees.Mr. BALDWIN
4: The selection of the 22 representatives of trading interests
4Mr. BALDWIN
: I cannot allow my hon. Friend to make me give a promise, but he may rest assured that all facts brought to my notice will be borne in mind.Mr. BALDWIN
: In view of the extremely rapid fall which has recently taken place in the price of wheat, some delay in the adjustment of the prices of flour and bread to the latest value of wheat is not, of necessity, a sign of excessive profits, but I have caused inquiries to be made and a careful watch kept on the situation.The PRESIDENT of the BOARD of TRADE (Mr. Baldwin)
 (by Private Notice)asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs what reports have been received with regard to the recent executions of 67 Greek and Armenian notables of Samsoun and Bafra by Kemalist bands; and with regard to the massacres and violation and deportation of women by the same bands at Marsovan; what steps the Government intend to take, in case of the departure of the French troops from Cilicia, to protect the Armenian and Greek population in that province from the alternatives of flight or massacre?Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
45: I was just going to ask the question suggested by the Noble Lord opposite, and that is whether, in view of the change in the situation in the Near East by the Treaty concluded at
45Mr. O'CONNOR
: Before the right hon. Gentleman answers, may I put it to him, that with a full desire to respect the feelings and susceptibilities of France, and with a full desire to maintain the Entente between the two countries in the greatest interests of both, as to whether it would not be desirable to let the French people, as well as the French Government, know the feelings of apprehension which this Treaty has aroused among the people of this country, and especially amongst those for whom I have a right to speak, in regard to the absence of the guarantees for the saving of Christian lives, the destruction of which quite recently by the Turkish authorities has just been confirmed by the Under-Secretary?Mr. O'CONNOR
: I do not want to press my right hon. Friend in this situation—not in the least. But I think I am entitled to ask this question: Have we any reason to believe that the policy of the Government with regard to the liberation of the Christians under Turkish rule, and the determination of the Government never to allow them back under that rule—which has been made several times by Ministers, and in an eloquent speech by the Prime Minister—from which declarations the Government has never receded—still stands the policy of the Government?Mr. O'CONNOR
14.  asked the Secretary for Mines the result of his negotiations with the mine owners in regard to Part II of the Mining Industry Act; and at what date is this part of the Act to become operative?Mr. T. A. LEWIS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman consider the advisability of publishing the correspondence?Mr. LEWIS
88: The Vote before us is for £2,192,000, and that will carry us to the end of the financial year. There is, as will be seen from the footnote, a further sum of £670,000, which is for the next financial year. The two together, as my hon. Friend pointed out last Thursday,
88The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
: Yes, Sir, and each man there has been so informed.Dr. MACNAMARA
36: The disabled men who were being trained in diamond-cutting at the Wrexham factory cannot, I am afraid, be
36The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
ad hoc"Any balance remaining in the Unemployed Workers' Dependants Fund, after discharging its liabilities under this Act, shall be apportioned equitably, in accordance with directions to be given by the Minister of Labour, between the Unemployment Fund and the several funds out of which benefits under any special schemes are payable.": The principle which was settled by the Second Reading of the Bill is not before the Committee. What the hon. Member objects to is paying back the balance to the three parties to the Insurance Fund. Clause 2, Sub-section (7) says:
ad hoc"Any balance remaining in the Unemployed Workers' Dependants Fund, after discharging its liabilities under this Act, shall be apportioned equitably, in accordance with directions to be given by the Minister of Labour, between the Unemployment Fund and the several funds out of which benefits under any special schemes are payable."Dr. MACNAMARA
98: The difference between the Actuary's report and the Estimate is accounted for in the following way. The Actuary estimates that there will be 1,750,000 persons unemployed, while this Estimate is for 1,600,000 persons, including Ireland. Inasmuch as 1,600,000 are allowed for, more will be paid in contributions than if the Estimate were for 1,750,000, and, therefore, the State contribution has to be more. That is one of the reasons for the difference of £324,000 between the Estimate and the Actuary's report. The difference is also accounted for partly by the provision which, as shown on the Estimate, we have made for Ireland, and for the two other concessions in respect of the invalid husband and the house-keeper. My hon. and gallant Friend made a complaint that we are casting some sort of obligation on the future with regard to the sum of £670,000. But what are we to do? Here is a Bill that is going to run from the 7th November to the 7th May. Unhappily, the calendar provides that the 31st March comes in between, and the £2,192,000 is for the period 7th November—31st March, and the £670,000 is for the period 31st March—7th May. Is there anything wrong in carrying over to the next financial year the period between 31st March and 7th May in a Bill which I have told the House all the time is going
98Dr. MACNAMARA
: No.Dr. MACNAMARA
90: The money is collected under the National Insurance Act, and these people will get the supplementary aid. The point arises now whether the State or the Unemployed Fund should receive any surplus from the Dependants Fund. That is a proper
90Dr. MACNAMARA
: Under the Act.Dr. MACNAMARA
: During the next six months.Dr. MACNAMARA
: This Estimate is for £2,192,000, which is the contribution of the State in this financial year to the Unemployed Workers' Dependants Fund. The £670,000 in the Estimate is for next year. This Bill lasts for six months and runs to 7th May, and the £670,000 is the charge in the next-financial year. The £115,000 referred to at the bottom of the page is not in that amount at all. This money will be distributed amongst the Votes of the various Departments responsible for the surplus.Dr. MACNAMARA
89: No. We are here finding money for the Unemployed Workers' Dependants (Temporary Provision) Bill, and if at the end of our transactions we have any money in hand, it
89Dr. MACNAMARA
: £20,000,000.Dr. MACNAMARA
94: With regard to the point raised by the hon. Member for East Nottingham (Sir J. D. Rees). His reference is to the Estimate before us, and I may say that the explanatory page was issued before the Trade Facilities Bill was complete. The hon. Baronet's proper course was to have made his comment during the proceedings at some stage of the Bill. As regards the hon. Member for West Ham (Mr. W. Thorne), he asks what will happen when this six months' Fund is exhausted. I take power in the Bill to continue after the period for which the grant is made the contribution for such weeks as are necessary. I am much obliged to my hon. Friend who put the question as to the Unemployment Insurance Fund. I spoke offhand when I stated that we had already drawn on this Fund £5,000,000 or £6,000,000. The amount should have been £4,250,000, and I am very glad of this opportunity of making the correction. What I mean is that we have run into debt so far, in respect of the £20,000,000 I am entitled to borrow under the Act, to the extent of £4,250,000. I have no doubt I shall be able to get through to the end of the financial year with the powers I have. I shall keep the benefit down from 15s. to 12s., and shall keep the contributions going until the Fund is solvent, and until I have repaid to the Treasury such sums as I have borrowed from it. I hope the Fund will be solvent by June, 1923.94Dr. MACNAMARA
97ad hoc: This Estimate has nothing to do with the Unemployment Insurance Act, except that the people who pay are under the Insurance Act and are entitled to benefits. This, however, is supplementary to the benefits of the Insurance Act. I am not now dealing with the Unemployed Workers' Dependants Fund, but with the Unemployment Insurance Fund. I am estimating that, during the year ending with June, 1922, there will be 1,250,000 persons unemployed, and thereafter 500,000 persons for the year June, 1922—June, 1923. By that time, on that basis—that is to say, by keeping contributions at their present level and benefits at the reduced level—the fund will be solvent. I have so far borrowed £4,250,000. I have no doubt that we shall be able to carry on, and that if I have to borrow £20,000,000, I shall be able to repay the money by reason of the condition of the fund which will result by keeping up the contribution and keeping the benefit down by June, 1923. That is the position of that fund. This is a totally different thing. This is an 97ad hocDr. MACNAMARA
: I have tried to explain on the face of the Estimate. At the bottom of page 5 there is a reference to the case of Ireland—Dr. MACNAMARA
: That depends on the number of persons unemployed.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Certainly.Dr. MACNAMARA
a: I beg to move "That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said Amendment."aDr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move, "That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Dr. MACNAMARA
: I beg to move, "That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Dr. MACNAMARA
"That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said Amendment.": I beg to move,
"That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Dr. MACNAMARA
"The expression 'wife' means a wife who is living with or is being maintained wholly or mainly by her husband and for the purposes of this Act a husband shall be deemed to be dependent on his wife.""living with or who is being maintained wholly or mainly by her husband, and includes a person who is living as his wife with the person claiming a grant, and any female person who is residing with a person claiming a grant for the purpose of having the care of his dependent children and is being maintained by him.": When the Bill left this House the expression "wife" meant a person
"The expression 'wife' means a wife who is living with or is being maintained wholly or mainly by her husband and for the purposes of this Act a husband shall be deemed to be dependent on his wife.""living with or who is being maintained wholly or mainly by her husband, and includes a person who is living as his wife with the person claiming a grant, and any female person who is residing with a person claiming a grant for the purpose of having the care of his dependent children and is being maintained by him."Dr. MACNAMARA
13: With regard to the first part of the question, I have no definite information, but I think it probable that in some cases there may be a movement such as that indicated. As regards the second part of the question, legislation would be required if the powers of town councils to acquire land compulsorily were to be extended, and this is not contemplated in the meantime. I would, however, remind my hon. and gallant Friend of
13The LORD ADVOCATE (Mr. Morison)
5. 3 asked the President or the Board of Trade whether sugar-milk, British Pharmacopœia, has been entered as liable for duty under Part I of the Safeguarding of Industries Act; whether he is aware that this article is an essential
3Mr. MYERS
: I notice that part of this Estimate is to be set aside for the training of women, but there are no details set out. There is in existence a Central Committee for the training of women, and excellent work has been done in the London area and at Sheffield, Cardiff, Birmingham, Barrow and elsewhere. The first 13 weeks of that training scheme have terminated, and it would be desirable if we could be informed what is going to be done in the future and to what extent these funds are to be drawn upon for the purpose. The Central Committee takes juveniles from 14 to 16 years of age and trains them in housecraft and the like.Mr. MYERS
: Is it not a fact that, if there be any balance after those items have been met, it will go for the purpose of training women?Mr. MYERS
103: We desire once more to register our protest from this side of the Committee against the extremely limited range of this Estimate. The unemployed problem as it presents itself to us to-day is altogether different from what it has been in days gone by, and this Estimate assumes, like all provision in days gone by has done, that the unemployed man is a casual worker of the unskilled variety, and the works mentioned in the Estimate—land, main drainage, forestry, roads and light railways—assume that any unemployed man will be of the pick and shovel variety. That might have obtained in the past, but it most certainly does not prevail at present. Even if that were so, the sum set forth in this Estimate is altogether inadequate to meet the needs of the situation, and we believe our strong protest is necessary. When we consider the magnitude of the unemployed problem it is quite an insignifi-
103Mr. MYERS
: Do I understand that we are discussing the Estimate of the Minister of Labour in which the training of women is specified?Mr. MYERS
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that those in charge of the relief jobs would determine who would be employed, and is it not a fact that the whole of these men are working alternate weeks?Mr. HALLS
: Yes. I should be very glad to publish it if it is the wish of the House that it should be published. I will consult my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade as to the best way of publishing it.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
14: I regret to have to state that the council of the Mining Association have recently passed a resolution by a large majority to the effect that they are unwilling to co-operate in working Part II of the Mining Industry Act. I have expressed my views to them, both orally and by letter, but so far have been unsuccessful in convincing them that it is in the interests of themselves and of the industry as a whole that they should reconsider this decision, and they represent that it is now my duty to report to Parliament under Section 17 that this Part of the Act has been rendered abortive. I cannot accept the view that this declaration of intention renders the provisions of Part II "abortive" in the sense contemplated by Section 17. Those provisions can be neither operative nor abortive until the necessary Regulations
14Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: No, Sir.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
: I cannot add anything at present to the reply given to the hon. Member on the 11th August last. The Bill cannot be introduced this Session.The SECRETARY for MINES (Mr. Bridgeman)
163162: After so much discussion on unemployment and so much advice
163162Mr. GILLIS
: They know now what rot it was.Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
76.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether he proposes to submit any conclusions at which he may arrive with the Arab delegation from Palestine for the approval of Parliament; and when and how it is proposed that the draft mandate for Palestine is to be dealt with by Parliament?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Is the Government providing any money?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
75.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether the Palestine Government have given a contract for the erection of a large plant for electric power supply to Mr. Rutenberg, a Russian Jew; whether tenders were obtained from other firms; and whether it is intended to employ Jewish labour in carrying out this work in exclusion of Palestinian labour?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
34. That this House views with. grave concern the present state of India, and urges upon His Majesty's Government to take immediate steps to re-establish law and order in that country asked the Prime Minister whether his attention has been called to the Notice of Motion relating to India standing in the names of the hon. Member for Twickenham and others—["That this House views with. grave concern the present state of India, and urges upon His Majesty's Government to take immediate steps to re-establish law and order in that countrySir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Will it be convenient for my right hon. Friend to see myself and two or three of my friends this afternoon?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: In view of the communistic rejoicings over the departure of Sir Basil Thomson, will the right hon. Gentleman not consider the desirability of reinstating Sir Basil Thomson in a post from which he was dismissed after a long period of distinguished service?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
71. 40 asked the Minister of Health whether he has received the representation of the Staffordshire Association for the Care of the Mentally Defective regarding the
40Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
119: I should like to ask in connection with the land drainage proposals whether it is intended that the expenditure should only be on internal drainage. Speaking of my own part of the country there are plenty of opportunities for considerable employment of labour on drainage works, but these works should be done systematically if they are to be of any advantage, and the system necessary there is that they should start at the lower ends of the rivers, at the estuaries, and there make the necessay clearances so that the work higher up may be carried out effectively. There is no use in a man cleaning out his drains if his neighbour leaves the adjoining drains blocked up. The effects of his labour will be nullified. In Lincolnshire and Norfolk especially it is necessary that the estuaries should be cleared out before any effective upland drainage can be accomplished. It is primarily a question of dredging in many instances, but it involves a considerable and comprehensive scheme. I hope it will be found possible to make such a scheme effective and that some real permanent good shall ensue from the expenditure and the employment of labour which is now proposed. In this connection I am very sorry that the question of land reclamation has not been taken into consideration. It is possible on the coast in the immediate vicinity of the Wash to add
119Mr. ROYCE
: Does the right hon. Gentleman not acknowledge that this question has been brought up, not today, but for years, and that ample time has been given to the Government to make the necessary preparations?Mr. ROYCE
101: I understand that we are entitled to discuss what the Minister is going to do with the balance in the event of there being a balance. The hon. Member for Seaham (Mr. Hayward) suggested that, if there is a balance, that balance should be returned to the contributors—that is to say, the workmen, the employers and the State. I recognise that it would be easy to hand back part of the balance to the employers and part to the State, but, in the name of common sense, how are you going to find all the workmen who have been contributing? In consequence of the casual nature of their employment, in many cases, it would be impossible for anyone to find out where they might be at the time when the balance was in existence, and, therefore, from that point of view, I recognise that it would be impracticable to divide the surplus again between the three contributing bodies, and I think that all of my colleagues on this side of the Committee have come to the conclusion that the best way to deal with the surplus, if there be any, would be to hand it over to the original Unemploy-
101Mr. W. THORNE
92: Assuming that the £1,000,000 to meet the requirements of the dependants and the wives and
92Mr. W. THORNE
: Does not the right hon. Gentleman think the Government made a huge blunder in issuing this circular?Mr. W. THORNE
: Why all the row about the dismissal of this one man?Mr. W. THORNE
: That is from a Noble Lord, and not a docker.Mr. W. THORNE
: I should like notice of that question.Sir A. MOND
: The representation referred to is receiving careful consideration in connection with the general question of the limitation of expenditure under the Mental Deficiency Acts necessitated by the decision of the Government that the public expenditure must be drastically reduced. Local authorities are at present only able to deal with urgent cases of the kind indicated if the expenditure involved can be met within the limits of their approved estimates for 1921–22.Sir A. MOND
: I should like notice of that. I do not know whether he has personally had to pay or not.Sir A. MOND
: I am aware of the decision referred to. The auditor surcharged the whole of the expenditure involved in the provision of the stage plays in question, which amounted in the accounts of the county council for the year under review to £2,745. The surcharge was made on the Chairman of the Finance Committee of the London County Council, who, under the ruling of the Court, is legally liable for the amount. As regards the last part of the question, I am not aware of any representations on the subject having been made by ratepayers. The auditor took action on his own initiative.The MINISTER of HEALTH (Sir Alfred Mond)
104: It may be useful if I say a word explaining the Estimate, and deal with the questions which have been put to me. In reply to my hon. Friend the Member for Bridgeton (Mr. M. Scott), some Department had to take charge. The Estimate covers many other Departments, but as a large amount, probably the largest amount, of the money will be required as assistance for Poor Law guardians and local authorities, my Department has been placed in charge and not the Ministry of Labour. As regards what fell from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean), far be it from me or any British Minister to wish to administer anything in Scotland. I am glad to be able to assure him, as far as loans to parish councils are concerned, that that will go to the Scottish Board of Health. The money will be distributed according to needs, and not on a basis of mathematical calculation. As regards the Board of Agriculture, land improvement
104The MINISTER of HEALTH (Sir Alfred Mond)
105: County councils, borough councils, urban district councils,
105Sir A. MOND
: The hon. Gentleman will find that the heads of different Departments will also account.Sir A. MOND
: The hon. Member is quite wrong. It will be allocated by the Cabinet Committee. Neither the Minister of Labour nor the Minister of Health will allocate it.Sir A. MOND
: What does the hon. Member say the Minister of Labour ought to administer?Sir A. MOND
136: The suggestion made by the hon. Member who spoke last relating to piers and quays is well worthy of consideration. No doubt, if any responsible proposals are put up, they will be considered in connection with all the
136Sir A. MOND
: I think if my hon. and gallant Friend will look at the Bill as it left the Report stage, he will find that I gave the same terms as to Scotland.Sir A. MOND
bonâ-fide141"A few months ago I was invited to join the Unemployment Grant Committee. So soon as acquainted with the system on which grants were made I raised the question of the payment of trade union wages on work
141140: I know the administration can do a good deal. Sometimes they are working alternate weeks and sometimes alternate shifts. The first circular which was issued laid down no scale at all, but merely that there should be a substantially lower wage, and I purposely did not wish to be driven to fixing any hard and fast line, knowing the difficulty of laying down any conditions which would be likely to create hardship and difficulty. The local authorities wrote and said: "You must lay down some figure; we do not know what 'substantially lower' means." The Cabinet Unemployment Committee laid down what, on the whole, I think is a fairly reasonable figure. The hon. Member for Ladywood asked if it was going to make any difference in the efficiency of the work if the figure was fixed at 50 per cent., and an arbitrary figure of 25 per cent. has been suggested.bonâ-fide141"A few months ago I was invited to join the Unemployment Grant Committee. So soon as acquainted with the system on which grants were made I raised the question of the payment of trade union wages on work
141140Sir A. MOND
: I dealt with that point in the absence of the hon. and gallant Member, and I pointed out that as far as land drainage work was concerned, none of the money would go to Ireland. Money for such purposes would have to be obtained from the Irish Board of Agriculture or the Irish Office.Sir A. MOND
: The decision lies with the Treasury. It may be fixed by the Cabinet Committee of which the Secretary for Scotland is a Member.Sir A. MOND
139: The local authorities are dealing with relief. They will go to the Poor Law guardians and select the men, not according to their industrial fitness, but according to their destitution. They will engage the man with a large family dependent upon him in preference to a bachelor, but a contractor could not work on those lines. You would have no control over a contractor who would get the best labour he could, and it would make a difference in the profit. The Minister of Labour and myself have both been most anxious that nothing shall be done which would interfere with the normal standard rate which has been called for and obtained by trade unions. My right hon. Friend the Member for Derby (Mr. Thomas) said that this is a challenge to the Fair Wages Clause, but it is nothing of the kind. It is a special exceptional rate for special exceptional purposes, and it is an alternative between doles and work. You cannot afford, and you ought not in the interests of future
139Sir A. MOND
: If I were a workman, and I could get £4 a week on one job and only £2 a week on the other, I think I should be prepared to make the sacrifice of working on the road.Sir A. MOND
138: The hon. Member pointed out that the work would not be efficient, and that the output would not be so great, and that logically it would be reasonable to pay less. Then he asks, "Is it worth while?" What does he mean? The various societies are bringing pressure to bear on municipal corporations to pay the standard rates, and under these circumstances I call that cowardice. The hon. Member for Ladywood calls it expediency, but surely it is cowardice because it is a dole, and what the hon. Member said proved that it was worth while. This is a very important principle, not merely in the general interests of unemployment, but in the general interests of labour. It would not be worth while to create any kind of trouble. Who pays for unemployed relief? On the whole the ratepayers, and who are they? [An HON. MEMBER: "The unemployed as well!"] Yes, they are the unemployed as well, and in many cases they are workmen who are working half-time, and making a less wage than they would get if they were employed at full time on relief works. Is it reasonable that a man
138Sir A. MOND
137: Not for drainage. I want to deal for a few moments with a larger question, which is very important. It has been raised in the Debate by the hon. Member for Ladywood (Mr. N. Chamberlain) and in the form of a Motion by the right hon. Member for Derby (Mr. J. H. Thomas). Exception has been taken and voiced in various quarters to a circular issued to local authorities by my Department on the 21st October. It dealt with the question of rates of wages for unskilled labour for the probationary period of six months—I want to lay stress on the question of the probationary period, for it is very essential—for unskilled men taken on at relief works carried out by local authorities. No one has pleaded harder than hon. Members opposite for work and not for doles. I quite sympathise with that plea. One of the first difficulties that I find when I meet a local authority and talk to it about work instead of doles is this, they say that relief works are so colossally costly and so out of all proportion that it is very much cheaper to give ten people doles than one man work. All the figures of every local authority with regard to relief work will hear out the statement as to the
137Sir A. MOND
: That is not what I said. The local authorities will look at the size of the families of the men and the conditions of destitution rather than to ability to do the job.Sir A. MOND
: I am glad that the hon. Member has raised that point. I am considering it at the present moment, and it is a very fair point.Sir A. MOND
52.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury what is the Board of Trade index accepted by his Department in formulating the Estimates for next year, 1922–23?Mr. LYLE
51.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury whether, in assessing the income of candidates for old age pensions, the Treasury takes into consideration, and if so, why, the assistance given to such claimants by friends on whom rests no legal liability to show such compassion and sympathy?Mr. LYLE
: Is not this the same restriction as was applied in regard to pre-War pensioners, and does the hon. Gentleman not know it is exceedingly disliked by every one of them?Sir C. KINLOCH-COOKE
16: Is the policy of the Foreign Office in reference to the action of its diplomatic representatives abroad to be reversed in future, in view of the fact that these representatives have not been greatly interested in commercial
16Mr. MANVILLE
: That was a matter which should have been dealt with in April last, when the House decided on the policy at that time.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I have given my ruling in regard to that matter.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: No, I have ruled that that argument cannot be repeated.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: I allowed other hon. Members previously to put that question to the Minister, who has now said that he is not in a position to answer it. He represents the War Office, and the War Office Estimate is now under consideration, and I cannot allow that point to be further dealt with.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: The hon. Member must remember that we are now considering the War Office Vote, and it is only the representative of the War Office in charge of this Estimate who can answer. He has given the answer so far as he was able to give it. That does not justify repetition of the same argument.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN
: The question of the men was settled on 18th April. We cannot go into that now, and the argument about the advice given to the Government is one that has been used several times already.The DEPUTY-CHAIRMAN (Sir E. Cornwall)
74.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether he is aware that by the revised conditions of service in East Africa civil servants have been promised since April, 1920, salaries on the basis of 10 rupees to the £, plus 50 per cent., and that, owing to the value of-the rupee in Zanzibar being determined by the Indian exchange, civil servants there are only able to remit to England at an exchange materially worse than the rate stabilised in other East African dependencies; and if, in these circumstances, he will grant to civil servants in Zanzibar facilities in this respect equal to those enjoyed by civil servants in such other dependencies?Lieut.-Colonel HURST
: The total number of men enrolled in the Auxiliary Force up to 30th September was 29,750, and my present information is that the strength of the force now exceeds 30,000. As regards the second part of the question, the number of men available cannot be accurately gauged, as availability is dependent on occupation and other causes.Major BARNSTON
: If my right hon. Friend has occasion to deal with any application for permission to return to India, he will consult the Government of India as to the best method of doing so.Major BARNSTON (Comptroller of the Household)
21: The Government of Bihar and Orissa rightly took a very serious view of the murder by villagers of Gurkha watchmen engaged by Mr. Grant and instituted these prosecutions. The persons accused of taking part in the assault on the Gurkhas were charged with murder, riot and dacoity; the Messrs. Grant with organising an unlawful assembly; and the Gurkhas and villagers who accompanied them with forming an unlawful assembly. My right hon. Friend has not received a report of the judgment, which, he understands, entirely exonerated the Messrs. Grant.21Major BARNSTON
: Is it not somewhat unfair to insinuate that a Jew has not just as much right to a concession in Palestine as anyone else?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Have not these representatives done most excellent work for British trade all over the world?Sir H. BRITTAIN
18.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Overseas Trade Department in what number of cities overseas his Department is represented; and whether the results of the work already carried out justify any increase in that representation?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Was he a Labour man?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: He lost his job.Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Is it possible by Order in Council to get rid of these conscientious objectors from Government employment?Sir F. FLANNERY
79.  asked the Chief Secretary whether his attention has been called to the proceedings of a coroner's inquiry into the death of Michael Brooks at Ennis on 26th October, where the jurors objected to the form of oath and, in deference to this objection, the words "our Sovereign Lord the King" were expunged by the coroner; and what steps the Government propose to take in the matter?Mr. MARRIOTT
78.  asked the Chief Secretary whether the workhouse at Bally-shannon has been occupied by the Irish Republican Army; whether an armed sentry was posted at the gate; whether he can inform the House for what purpose the workhouse has been so occupied; and what steps he has taken in the matter?Mr. MARRIOTT
: Is it a fact that Major Osborne had a rather specially distinguished career in the Army and is very specially fit for the office to which he was appointed?Mr. MARRIOTT
: I want to raise two points. The first is with regard to the Loan Fund. I understood my right hon. Friend to say that he had drawn on that fund to the extent of £4,250,000 at present, and I think he also gave an estimate that the monthly drawing on it is £1,500,000.Mr. MARRIOTT
: Can the right hon. Gentleman give us any estimate of what, roughly speaking, he is taking from the fund at the present time per month? If he can it may reassure the minds of many of us. My other point is this. In the first part of his Memorandum my right hon. Friend states that the sum which is to be immediately provided by the State for unemployment is less than £12,000,000. Should not the word be "ultimately" instead of "immediately"? I understand that the £12,000,000 will not be immediately provided, but some of it will be provided in the financial year 1922–23. What is immediately provided is a sum on the one hand of £2,192,000, on the other hand of 2330,000, and, under a third head, of Unemployment Relief of £5,500,000, or a total immediately provided of £8,022,000. The rest of the items which appear in the Memorandum are items which will not come into payment until after the close of the financial year, and, therefore, do not come within the provision immediately to be made. I have been a little mystified by the use of this word "immediately."Mr. MARRIOTT
95: May I ask the right hon. Gentleman if he can give us any estimate of the drawings on the fund for the months which are immediately ahead of us? I think he told us he fully expected that the £20,000,000 would carry him through the present financial year. If that is his expectation it means that at the present time he is drawing on the fund to the extent of £3,000,000 per month. It is a simple matter of figures, £4,250,000 have already been expended out of the Loan Fund of £20,000,000. There are five months between now and
95Mr. MARRIOTT
50. 38 asked the hon. Member for the Pollok Division of Glasgow, as representing the First Com-
38Sir M. CONWAY
: Will my hon. Friend answer the second part of my question, and state if he will use his influence with the Bridge House Trust to obtain such small funds as may be needed to preserve this arch. Will he also impress upon the Bridge House Trust that the employment of the small sum of money necessary for the preservation of a very important monument is obviously a duty, incumbent upon the Bridge House Trust?Sir M. CONWAY
: Has not the right hon. Gentleman a means by which we can get round the Act?Mr. HURD
: Is it not a fact that the majority of these machine tools at the Disposal Board are being sold at breaking-up prices, thereby ruining the industry?Sir R. COOPER
17.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether it is the function of the British Foreign Office to take steps to protect British commercial interests in foreign countries when it has reason to believe that British commercial interests have received unfair treatment at the hands of foreign governments; and, if so, will he state whether he has made any representations to the Argentine Government with regard to that Government's treatment of British money invested in the development of the Argentine railways?Sir R. NEWMAN
: Was not that modified last year?Sir R. ADKINS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say whether the men who proposed to execute this loyal citizen will be punished?Sir W. DAVISON
 (by Private Notice)asked the Chief Secretary whether the police in Belfast last night raided a yard in Kent Street, where they found a loyalist citizen under sentence of death in charge of three armed Sinn Fein guards; whether a wireless installation and other military plant were captured at the same time; and what steps he is taking to protect loyal citizens of Belfast and elsewhere in Ireland from being kidnapped and condemned to death?Sir W. DAVISON
: Can the right hon. Gentleman not repeat to the House the definite assurance which he has again and again given, that under no circumstances would Ulster be coerced or pressed to surrender anything which she had been given by the Government of Ireland Act?Sir W. DAVISON
: On whom does the decision rest as to whether or not the truce has been broken?Sir W. DAVISON
: May we take it that the unanimous opinion of the Dominion Prime Ministers has been conveyed to the Dominions in connection with the Conference?Sir W. DAVISON
37.  asked the Prime Minister whether he can assure the House that nothing will be done by the British Government to coerce or to bring pressure to bear upon the Government and people of Northern Ireland with a view to forcing them into surrendering any of the territory or rights granted to them by the Government of Ireland Act?Sir W. DAVISON
: Will the House have an opportunity of discussing the statement to be made by the Home Secretary, as announced in the Press to-day?Sir W. DAVISON
26.  asked the Prime Minister what replies have now been received from the Dominion Governments with regard to the necessary amendment of the law to secure British nationality for the children of foreign-born British subjects, as recommended by the Dominion Prime Ministers at the recent Imperial Conference; and whether he expects to be in a position to introduce the necessary legislation in the matter at the beginning of next Session?Sir W. DAVISON
81.  asked the Chief Secretary whether Constable M'Carthy, Royal Irish Constabulary, was fired at and seriously wounded in the village of Baltinglass, County Wicklow, on Sunday, 30th October last; and whether any arrests have been made in connection with this outrage?Viscount CURZON
: How long is it likely to take the right hon. Gentleman to get this Report? Will it be available before the House rises?Viscount CURZON
: I beg your pardon, Sir, but my feelings are very strong.Viscount CURZON
82.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he is aware that during the truce the so-called Commandant John Hales, 1st Battalion, 3rd West Cork Brigade, of the Irish Republican Army, was using a Ford car, the property of Colonel Lucas, which had been stolen; whether on the 8th August the police stopped and seized the car; whether Hales thereupon took possession of another car belonging to a loyalist named Shorter; and what steps have been taken in the matter?Viscount CURZON
: How much longer have we got to put up with this damned nonsense?Viscount CURZON
: Who in the meantime is in charge of the secret funds?Viscount CURZON
41. 32 asked the Prime Minister whether it is yet possible to state the name of the
32Captain Viscount CURZON
: Will my right hon. Friend, at any rate, on the Consolidated Fund discussion, make a statement of our position, the position of this country in the Near East, and is he aware that the anxiety on this side of the House is of a rather different nature to that on the other side—that is the serious, the most serious, military danger of our position in Irak—if the Treaty between the French and the Kemalists is as alleged? Can we, at any rate, have a statement?Earl WINTERTON
: Will the hon. Gentleman approach the Leader of the House with a view to having a statement on the question raised by the hon. Member for the Scotland Division of Liverpool (Mr. O'Connor) and the whole of the Near East question on the Consolidated Fund Bill, and is he aware that there is a desire for such a Debate in all quarters of the House?Earl WINTERTON
: May I ask whether the Government consider these cases to be mere details?Viscount WOLMER
1.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he has any further information to give the House regarding the position of the married officer in the Indian Army, and the recognition of brevet rank, so far as pension is concerned?Sir J. D. REES
2. 180 asked the Secretary of State for India whether he can now state what action the Government of
180Sir J. D. REES
Sir  asked the Secretary of State for India whether the assessors appointed in that behalf have dealt with the claims put forward on behalf of those who lost their lives at Jallianwallah Bagh; and, if so, with what general results?J. D. REES
: A land fit for heroes!Mr. J. JONES
191: I have been asked to reply to this question. The Royal Air Force band was engaged by the proprietors of the West Pier, Brighton, at a
191The SECRETARY of STATE for AIR (Captain Guest)
: That has nothing to do with the original question.Captain GUEST
: That has no relation to Question 15, to which I have just replied.Captain GUEST
17.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether any decision has been arrived at regarding clasps for the medals in commemoration of the great War?Colonel BURN
: Surely some decision can be arrived at three years after the War? Many of the men entitled to these clasps will be dead, otherwise.Colonel BURN
19.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether he is aware that on the occasion of the use of the headquarters of the 2nd County of London Yeomanry in Elverton Street, Westminster, by the Australian Forces during the late War a very definite agreement was entered into regarding compensation to be made for such use of the premises; that the amount of such compensation was definitely and finally agreed by the officials of the Australian Forces with the parties concerned at £1,766; that since June, 1919, when the War Office took over all liabilities in connection with the property under arrangements made directly with that Department, and including the payment of the sum of £1,766, it has been found impossible to secure any satisfaction of the claim notwithstanding innumerable reminders sent on the subject; and that the continued delay of the War Office in effecting a settlement of a definitely agreed amount of compensation is likely to cause still further expense to the public through a further claim now being in course of preparation to cover the subsequent period; and whether instructions will be at once given that immediate settlement of the first portion of the agreed amount, namely, £1,766, is to be made?Colonel BURN
: Is it not the case that all the delay which is occurring increases the liability of the War Office?Colonel BURN
: This question has been postponed, by request. When will the right hon. Gentleman be able to give a reply?Mr. THOMSON
: The Imperial War Graves Commission is meeting shortly, I think next week, and after that I shall be able to announce a decision.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-.EVANS
53. 197 asked the Minister of Pensions, in regard to the case of Hugh Ralph, Bridgeton, reference No. 1/MR./2952, whether the medical board appointed by the Ministry definitely found that the soldier was suffering from disability due to varicose veins which had been aggravated by service, although it was doubtful to what precise degree it had been aggravated; whether the pre-War doctor of the soldier certified that to his knowledge he did not suffer from varicose veins before enlistment and his general health was good; on what medical grounds did the Ministry upset the finding of its own medical board and
197Mr. MacCALLUM SCOTT
: I did not quite catch the answer. Did the medical board which examined the man find definitely that his disablement had been aggravated by service, although it was uncertain to what degree the aggravation amounted?Mr. SCOTT
: Does the right hon. Gentleman appreciate that I did not ask any question about entitlement at all? I asked merely whether the board did find, as a matter of fact, that the man's disablement was aggravated by service?Mr. SCOTT
: Is there any intention whatever of moving in reference to muit sai in Hong Kong? Surely the buying and selling of children under the British flag ought to be abolished?Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: Of whom is the Commission to be composed?Mr. G. MURRAY
26.  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether his attention has been drawn to the seditious doctrines taught in the proletarian Sunday schools, which undermine the youth and adults of this country by the teaching of revolution, rebellion to the Crown, and such teachings as that Christ is a failure; whether there is any legislation under which these schools may be closed; and, if not, whether the Government will consider the desirability of introducing legislation which will enable them to do so and abolish this source of danger to the Constitution?Mr. G. MURRAY
: In view of the teaching in these schools, does the right hon. Gentleman not think it is important to have a special branch of the police to deal with them?Mr. MURRAY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman also aware—Mr. MURRAY
: May we not have exemption of Members of Parliament for overrunning people?Mr. J. JONES
: Make them Cabinet Ministers.Mr. J. JONES
210: My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer must refer my hon. Friend to the White Paper on this subject promised in his answer of the 24th October to the hon. Member for Newcastle East (Major Barnes), which will, I understand, be
210Mr. YOUNG
: With the permission of the hon. Member, my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will circulate his reply in the OFFICIAL REPORT, as it is inevitably somewhat lengthy.Mr. YOUNG
47. 212 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, with a view to reducing public expenditure in any one year, he has examined the Civil Service Estimates from the point of view that, as at present framed, considerable expenditure by, for instance, the Admiralty, the War Office, and the Board of Works is capital expenditure, which should be spread over a number of years instead of being a charge upon the current revenue in a single year; whether he will consider the desirability of framing the Budget more in accordance with business principles in this respect; and whether he will cause inquiry to be made
212Mr. G. MURRAY
: The question of the form in which the Budget is presented, and in particular whether expenditure of a capital nature should be met from loans and not from revenue, has frequently been discussed in this House. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer is certainly prepared to consider the question anew and will bear in mind the hon. Member's suggestions. He must, however, point out that alterations of form of the kind suggested do not in themselves reduce public expenditure by one penny, and do not reduce the amount of cash which the Exchequer has to find in any given year. Moreover, the loan commitments of the Government in the near future are already so heavy as to make it very doubtful whether it would be wise to add to them.Mr. YOUNG
: With regard to the last part of the question, which the hon. Gentleman has not answered, will he say whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer will appoint a Committee of Inquiry into the Admiralty dockyards with a view to ascertaining whether the results which I have indicated in my question would not be obtained?Mr. MURRAY
: No. My hon. Friend will hardly expect me to give an undertaking of that sort in a matter which is occupying my right hon. Friend's attention.Mr. YOUNG
ad valorem: In the case of all goods liable to an ad valoremMr. YOUNG
: That is a matter for inference.Mr. YOUNG
: My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer feels bound to await the Report of the Committee on National Expenditure before giving a decision on this question.Mr. YOUNG
51. 214 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, with a view to lessening the burden to the tax-
214Mr. G. MURRAY
: No, Sir. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer thinks it is essential that we should meet current expenditure out of current revenue.Mr. YOUNG
: The hon. Member is, I think, under a misapprehension. The number of cases in which persons, who are in fact unemployed, are summoned for the non-payment of Income Tax, is relatively very small. Such cases, when they do arise, are due to the difficulty experienced by the local officials in ascertaining the individual taxpayer's circumstances and to his failure to intimate the fact of his unemployment. Under standing instructions, taxpayers who are known to be out of employment, and, in consequence, unable to pay arrears of Income Tax due from them, are not summoned.Mr. YOUNG
: I think, if the hon. Gentleman will look at the answer I have just given, he will see that the circumstances are explained, and he will find that it is probably not the fault of the Inland Revenue.Mr. YOUNG
: I have already stated that to the best of my information and belief, where it is known that the men are out of work, they are not summoned. If the hon. Member knows of cases in which he believes that that rule has been broken, I shall be very glad if he will draw my attention to them.Mr. YOUNG
: I beg to refer to my reply to the hon. Member for the Harrow Division (Mr. Mosley) on the 1st instant.Mr. YOUNG
216: If the hon. and gallant Gentleman refers to the reply, he will see that I have referred to the statement
216Mr. YOUNG
: There are two 'mints that I would like to have cleared up. May I ask my right hon. Friend whether he is aware that the impression he left on the House—I speak personally, and I am in the memory of the House—was that Sir Joseph Byrne voluntarily came to him and said that he could not go on in consequence of the criticisms levelled at him in this House? I speak in the recollection of the House. That was the impression left on my mind.Rear-Admiral Sir R. HALL
: On a point of Order. May I be allowed to ask if this is a, Debate, or a reply to a question?Mr. J. JONES
: I propose to put two questions. I would ask my right hon. Friend whether it is not a fact that he personally telephoned to Sir Joseph Byrne to come over and see him here, and whether it was not in consequence of that interview that Sir Joseph Byrne declined the appointment?Sir R. HALL
: Secondly, I would ask my right hon. Friend whether the House is to understand that an offer was made to an officer and that, in spite of the fact that the head of the Department did not know whether he would accept it or not, he was put in charge of one of the most confidential offices in this country and was allowed to work there for a certain period, though the head of the Department was unaware whether he would remain or not?Sir R. HALL
: I was explaining that all the money which is spent on relief works under this Vote must necessarily be paid out of the pockets of those engaged in industries, which still are able to afford employment to workers; that in those industries short time is very prevalent, and wages are going lower and lower; and that the unfortunate men who are engaged in those industries which are still carrying on on short time are having a portion of their wages taken, week by week, to be paid to able-bodied workers employed on pauper relief works at a higher rate of wages than those of the men who have to pay them. I say that conditions of that sort are really a very grave injustice to the colliers and others—Mr. A. HOPKINSON
: Does the hon. Member call ex-service men employed on these relief works paupers?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
275: Any man, whether ex-service man or anyone else, who is obtaining his living at the expense of his neighbours, is a pauper. I should like to point out that one of the main objects of the Government's policy is to endeavour to persuade the people of this country that this relief which is given them is not outdoor relief. The whole policy pursued by the Government, in this and other Measures before the House at the present time, is to give outdoor relief, and to call it by some other name, so that nobody need be ashamed. It is very
275Mr. HOPKINSON
278277276: At the risk of being considered importunate by the House, I must again refer to the question of my own country with regard to the Vote that is about to be passed by this House. I do not see why I, as an Irishman, should have to stand up in this House and beg and beseech the Government for fair play and fair dealing for my countrymen. Yet that is the position in which I find myself to-night on the question of the expenditure of this sum of £5,500,000. Surely it is not necessary at this hour of the day to tell the House that we are suffering from unemployment in Ireland like any other part of the United Kingdom. During the Recess, the Government
278277276Sir W. ALLEN
280279: We have had to-night, once again, a repetition of the old argument as between those of us who are out for a solution of the unemployed difficulty on general principles, and those who look upon unemployment as a mere temporary social phenomenon. The hon. Member for Mossley (Mr. A. Hopkinson), whom I might describe as the hon. Member for misery, gave us a lecture upon our relative social positions, and he described the unemployed as able-bodied paupers, and he ought to know something about able-bodied paupers. Ho told us that a man who did not work for his own living was a pauper living upon the people who did. If we accept that definition, all the paupers will not be on one side. But we want to point out that the Bill does not pretend to solve, and the proposals before the House do not pretend to solve, the unemployment problem. They only pretend to ameliorate the present position caused by extraordinary circumstances, and we are voting money to local authorities for the purpose of carrying on relief work. Some of us have had experience of carrying out relief work. We know quite well that we are not in a position to-day to do what we should like to do. The right hon. Gentleman who is in charge of this proposition knows as well as I do that it is physically impossible for local authorities to carry out any scheme of relief work that will find work for all the people in the various localities who are out of work. There will be always a certain number of people who will be compelled to apply to another department of local administration for assistance. They will have to go to the board of guardians. There is not a proposal that the Government have brought forward in connection with their unemployment Measures which is going to find work for all the men who are out of employment—to say nothing of the women. We are asking that, at least, so far as we can find work for the unemployed, it shall be under decent conditions and provide a decent standard of living. Wages are coming down every day. Every day of our lives those of us who happen to be trade union officials are meeting employers around a table and discussing the question of the reduction of wages. We are con-
280279Mr. J. JONES
: Yes.Sir A. MOND
281: We will give you a hearty invitation then, but I am inclined to think that you would not go down to Swansea and administer it, let alone coming down to West Ham. I challenge you to go down to your own constituency and defend the proposals you are putting to the House to-night, and I will go down with you. I will resign my seat if you will resign yours, and fight you upon the issue of this proposition of 75 per cent. for the workman who is "down and out" for the time being, and because he is "down and out" has to work or less wages and has, we are told, got to accept a lower standard, indeed, the lowest standard of existence possible. There is not a man in this House who would be prepared to suggest that 25 per cent. below the standard of wages in a district is sufficient for a man to live upon. Nobody here will say so. Therefore we
281Mr. JONES
: Certainly.Sir A. MOND
: I agree. The contractor has then, of course, always the advantage over the local authorities. Does not the right hon. Gentleman requite of the local authorities that our work should be properly done? Ought we not to have the right to compete against the contractor? Should we not get the best possible labour to carry out our work? "Oh, but," you say, "the local authority must not employ the most efficient labour." We have got to take all the "down and outs," people who are not so efficient, and, therefore, our work is going to be handicapped because the contractors have an advantage over us. That is going to be the economic effect of the circular issued by the Ministry of Health. I might go further and say this. Everyone knows to-day that the local authorities are subject to pressure. Contractors are not—to the same extent—and only in so far as they happen to be well-in with the people who are in authority. We employ men and we pay them the rates, so far as we know, that we are allowed to pay. What is going to be the position of a local authority if we say that we are going to pay the full trade-union rate of wages for public work? Are we likely to be subjected to a surcharge in our own locality? We find it impossible to carry on public work without we give the local rate. What if we did not do that?Mr. JONES
: There would be no distress!Sir F. BANBURY
282: Oh, I see that is the move, is it? Get men to work cheaply so that wages will be automatically reduced, and then those who refuse to work at 25 per cent. less are going to be thrown upon the streets and told that they are work-shy. Is that the game? I venture to suggest if that is understood by the workers outside that there is going to be more fun this winter than some of you dream about. There are some here who represent the rich unemployed. I am speaking for the
282Mr. JONES
: Well, I have had more experience than you have had—Mr. JONES
: Perhaps the hon. Member for Silvertown will be good enough to remember that Speeches are addressed to me in the Chair, and not to individual Members.Mr. SPEAKER
284283: I am sorry, Sir, I cannot see you so well as I can the right hon. Gentleman. I have had more experience in dealing with unemployment from the local point of view if not from the national standpoint, and I have had more experience of the administration of schemes of relief. I have found this, that, on the average, unemployed labour is about 25 per cent. less efficient than ordinary labour. What. I want to point out to the right hon. Gentleman is that you never begin to give the unemployed man work until he is nearly physically and mentally reduced. He has been out of work for weeks. He is sold up. He has pawned all that he is capable of pawning and selling. He is physically emaciated, and then somebody thinks of doing something, and gives the man work at a time when he has to recoup the previous losses, and he goes to work very often when he is absolutely unable to do the work he is called upon to do. Most of this work is hard, physical work which the man is not altogether capable of doing. Therefore, I venture to suggest you ought not to penalise a man because society has neglected him.284283Mr. JONES
: I will consider it, but I cannot give an answer now.Sir A. MOND
: You are asking us to cut down the standard rate, and we cannot do it. We ask for liberty to fix the rate within our own constituency. If we have to pay 25 per cent. less, we are going to have an enormous amount of trouble which instead of alleviating existing distress will create more trouble than ever existed before. I am fearful of what is going to happen this winter. Let the Government in this matter give us a free hand, and allow local authorities the right to say what the conditions shall be for their own schemes. If the Government will do that they will help us very considerably out of the difficult position in which we are now placed.Mr. JONES
286285: When this matter first came forward I suggested to my right hon. Friend that these conditions would prove to be unworkable. I would like to ask the right hon. Gentleman if he cannot give some form of local autonomy, and not place local authorities in the position that they may be subject to various pains and penalties if they find they cannot work under these conditions, which I am quite sure will be found to be unworkable. The Association of Municipal Corporations would not have expressed the opinion that these conditions should not be applied to all grants if they did not know that in their own localities they would not be able to work them, and the reason is fairly obvious. I well remember some time ago that inquiries were made from local authorities on this point, and the answer which came back, I believe without exception, was that conditions of this sort would prove to be unworkable. And why?286285Dr. ADDISON
: I quite agree with my right hon. Friend.Sir A. MOND
287: I think it is unfortunate that the words "relief work" should be used if they are allowed to have that interpretation. We now find ourselves in the position that the local authorities will be doing something in anticipation that requires to be done, and which if it were done in the ordinary way they would have to pay the ordinary rates of wages. Simply because these men happen to be unemployed you are going to pay them for doing the same work less than they would otherwise be paid by the local authorities. That is unjust. I know the right hon. Gentleman is somewhat tied up by what he has said before, but at all events I hope he will agree that there should be more local autonomy in this matter. I remember the Corporation of Liverpool expressing, through some of their most important members, the strongest possible objection to this proposal. Nobody will accuse the members of the Liverpool Corporation of being influenced by the Labour party because they are mostly Conservatives in politics, but they were vehemently opposed to the principle which the right hon. Gentleman is adopting being applied in their district.287Dr. ADDISON
: I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman if the 25 per cent. less than the wages being paid in the district applies to roadmen?Mr. G. EDWARDS
: Not if it is done by contract.Sir A. MOND
288: I wish to point out that this proposal is going to hit very hardly one of the most hard-working bodies of workers in the country. Since yesterday I have ascertained that we have no less than 20,000 agricultural labourers who are out of work through no fault of their own. What kind of wage are you going to inflict on these men? They are out of work through no fault of their own, and they are a decent class of workers. Owing to the treacherous conduct of the Government to this particular class of workman through the abolition
288Mr. EDWARDS
: Not 25 per cent. below the service rate, but 25 per cent. below the wages paid for road making, which are a great deal more.Sir A. MOND
: Which approximates to the labourer's wage. I understand it is 25 per cent. lower than the labourer's wage.Mr. EDWARDS
: It applies to road making.Sir A. MOND
: The roadman are getting the same wage as the agricultural labourers. Does the right hon. Gentleman think that the farmers who compose the local authorities, and who sit on the district councils and the county councils, are going to pay a roadman more than they pay an agricultural labourer? If he does, he does not understand a farm quite as well as I do. I wish to point out the gross injustice which is being done to these men.Mr. EDWARDS
: The hon. Gentleman is wrong in his facts. I am not appalled by the gross injustice, for I have pointed out twice that he is wrong.Sir A. MOND
289: I wish to point out that the sum you are going to allocate for the various work to be done is absolutely inadequate, but unfortunately the Minister of Agriculture is not here to-night. I would like to support what the right hon. Member for Shoreditch (Dr. Addison) said. What will happen to the agricultural labourers? They will say, we cannon work, and I defy the right hon. Gentleman to find any man who can keep a wife and five children on 25 per cent. below 36s. a week and do an efficient day's work. The men will say, "We cannot do the work," and
289Mr. EDWARDS
: I should like to back with my sympathy the remark made by the hon. Member for South Norfolk (Mr. Edwards). A great deal of the work, such as afforestation and road-making, will be done by men who cannot live in their own homes. They will have to maintain themselves away from home and endeavour at the same time to support their families at home. At present men engaged on work of that kind are living on what the drapers call "rock-bottom" wages. If you are going to reduce wages, such as are paid in the Highlands, by 25 per cent. then—Dr. MURRAY
290: I think it would facilitate discussion if hon. Members would follow the statements which have been made. The Minister of Agriculture stated yesterday that there would be no
290Sir A. MOND
: For road-making?Dr. MURRAY
: Yes, certainly.Sir A. MOND
: I beg the right hon. Gentleman's pardon. He admitted, when I asked the question, that it would be for road-making.Mr. EDWARDS
: Not 25 per cent. below 36s., but 25 per cent. below the average road-maker's wage. I am informed that the average wage is 70s. a week. If the hon. Gentleman will deduct 25 per cent. from 70s., he will see the difference. No road-making authority pays its men 36s. a week.Sir A. MOND
: Will the right hon. Gentleman kindly tell us in what district the men are getting 70s. a week? In my own county they are only getting 36s.Mr. EDWARDS
: Is that for road-making or for road maintenance?Sir A. MOND
: Both of them, in the same way.Mr. EDWARDS
292291: I think the right hon. Gentleman is out in his facts. At any rate, he is very far out with regard to Scotland. The rate of wages for road-making and road maintenance in the Highlands at present is just as low as any man can possibly live on away from home and keep his family going at home at the same time. My hon. Friend for North Armagh (Sir W. Allen) appealed to the Scottish Members in the House to help him to get special consideration for his particular island. I think the best way to help the hon. and gallant Member is to emphasise the need for special consideration for other parts of the country further removed than Westminster. The Highlands comprise a part of the country which, like Ireland is apt to be overlooked in this connection and I am quite in sympathy with my hon. Friend. In passing, I would say that when we get Home Rule for Scotland we shall not come to this Parliament to obtain aid for schemes of this sort.292291Dr. MURRAY
293: I only interpose in the Debate for the purpose of clearing up a manifest misconception in the mind of the hon. Member opposite with regard to the grants we are ma-king in connection with roads. My hon. Friend the Member for South Norfolk (Mr. Edwards), I think must have had in mind the men normally engaged in preparing the surface of the roads. He was no doubt thinking particularly of road work done in the ordinary way by the road makers employed by the various highway authorities. I would like at once to say that that class of work is not within the Vote which the House is discussing at this moment. That work is dealt with through classification grants made to the highway authorities. The men employed on them will therefore receive the usual road wages. This Vote deals- with the expenditure in aid of the acceleration of work on what we have come to call arterial roads.293The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of TRANSPORT (Mr. A. Neal)
294: I rise for the purpose of securing clearness as to the position in so far as rural workers are concerned. If I understand the position correctly, this Vote under which the
294Mr. W. R. SMITH
: No, the President of the Board of Agriculture will cover works with which that Board are concerned.Sir A. MOND
: It is clear that men engaged on afforestation or land drainage works will be paid the full agricultural rate of wages, namely, that fixed by the Agricultural Committees.Mr. SMITH
: I said so yesterdayThe MINISTER of AGRICULTURE (Sir Arthur Boscawen)
: Yes, but the right hon. Gentleman will perhaps admit that things do not always work out in practice exactly as they are stated in this House, and, frequently, we have decisions come to which Members who were concerned in the passing of the Act feel are not in entire accord with what they had in their minds. I was not certain in this case that, it would be exactly as has been stated. Apart from that one can appreciate the fact that in rural districts wages are not going to be reduced to that extent. I should like to ask one further point following what has been said by the representative of the Ministry of Transport. If district councils develop work in the way of road making and they have minor roads under their charge, will they be able to pay less than the agricultural rate of wages?Mr. SMITH
: I have endeavoured to make that quite clear. My hon. Friend speaks of district councils having minor roads under their care. If a. road comes within the classification of the first or second class, then it will benefit under the ordinary scheme by the 50 per cent. or 25 per cent. assistance towards the cost of upkeep. But I was dealing with the new arterial roads which cannot come under rural district councils, and must be dealt with by highway authorities such as the county and borough councils or urban district councils.Mr. NEAL
295: Then I take it that this grant has no application to the district councils and the question so far as it affects rural districts will not arise. I would like to emphasise, if I may, one
295Mr. SMITH
: Before we pass the discussion of this Vote I should like to put in one plea as regards Scotland. I think the hon. Member for the Western Isles (Dr. Murray) is under some misconception with regard to the average payment to roadmen in Scotland. I think he will find that in the whole of the Highland counties the pay averages 60s. per week. It would be more efficacious if the authorities concerned in carrying out the relief works would go to those districts where large populations have been assembled during the boom in trade—districts which, as a result, went fast ahead, but which, now slack times have come, are going back just as quickly. Although I am personally most grateful to the Secretary for Scotland and all the officials of his Department when one makes application to them, I am sure the Minister of Health will agree that it is very necessary to set up some sort of machinery in Scotland which will fuse into one all the different points which are dealt with by local authorities. I myself brought one case to the notice of the Scottish Office some seven weeks ago, but can get no decision upon it. That is not the fault of the Scottish Office, but because the matter is perpetually referred to one authority or another, or one Committee or another. That does not help the local authority or the unemployed people in question, and I would urge the right. hon. Gentleman to consider the method of organisation for Scotland and for other outlying parts of the United Kingdom, and to endeavour to expedite these matters so that we can get a quicker decision.Major GLYN
299298297: I desire to refer to a point which it is necessary to put forward, but which I have not heard stated during this discussion. Practically all that is contemplated by the proposals contained in this Estimate is the ordinary humdrum work of the different local authorities. I should have thought that, in dealing with a matter of such great importance as the unemployment which exists in this country to-day, it would have been considered essential in some cases to carry out even more important public works than it is possible for the existing local authorities to carry out, and that some provision would be made for setting up machinery for dealing with schemes of a. really national character. For some considerable time I served upon two Com-
299298297Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
303302: Before we leave this Vote and subscribe yet another £15,000 to the Government's latest speculation in oil, we might at least inquire whether or not the gamble prospers. After all, the other little enterprises of the Govern-
303302Mr. MOSLEY
305: I thank my hon. Friend for having been so courteous as to tell me that he was going to bring this matter before the House. I am afraid he has the advantage of me in having a more picturesque mind and greater power of expression than I can, unfortunately, claim, and these qualities have enabled him to inves1 what I should have thought was a perfectly matter-of-fact business proceeding with a kind of halo of romance which is always welcome in the House at this hour. He asked me two questions, and also made another observation to which I should like to offer a word of reply. His first question was whether this gamble has been successful. He will not expect me to follow or to adopt his language, but I am in a position to tell him and the House what. is the exact financial position as it exists at the present moment, without going into a question which it would be out of order for me to discuss, namely, what are the benefits of the proposal as it was originally made.305The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for the COLONIES (Mr. Edward Wood)
: Since the last Debate?Mr. MOSLEY
: Yes. If my hon. Friend will refresh his mind on that he will find that it meets his point.Mr. WOOD
309ed hoc?308307"There have been suggestions of relief from organisations in America, from the Red Cross, and from private benefactors, all valuable, especially those from bodies who propose to send doctors and medical supplies, and any bodies who can help to prevent the children from dying; but I am sorry to say this is such a gigantic catastrophe that it has to be dealt with upon a much bigger scale, and it was the feeling in Paris that there must be a great international effort." —[OFFICIAL. REPORT, 16th August, 1921; col. 1238, Vol. 146.]306: The sum which we are asked to vote is £100,000, which I understand is really a bookkeeping account representing the amount or part of the amount of medical stores that are being sent to Russia. I should like to know a little more about the policy of His Majesty's Government in this matter, as this is the first time we have had this Vote in connection with the Russian famine. I should like to know whether the Government adhere to the views on the Russian famine expressed by the Prime Minister on the 16th August. That speech is, no doubt, vividly in the recollection of hon. Members. I was, unfor-
309ed hoc?308307"There have been suggestions of relief from organisations in America, from the Red Cross, and from private benefactors, all valuable, especially those from bodies who propose to send doctors and medical supplies, and any bodies who can help to prevent the children from dying; but I am sorry to say this is such a gigantic catastrophe that it has to be dealt with upon a much bigger scale, and it was the feeling in Paris that there must be a great international effort." —[OFFICIAL. REPORT, 16th August, 1921; col. 1238, Vol. 146.]306Lord ROBERT CECIL
313"If Russia is saved from starvation the unemployment problem throughout the world will be solved. Food is wasting in the granaries of the earth while millions of men, women, and children in Russia are dying for want of food."312(2) Adequate guarantees must be forthcoming for every credit granted in the future."(1) The Soviet Government must recognise the existing debt and other obligations resulting from engagements taken regularly.
(2) Adequate guarantees must be forthcoming for every credit granted in the future."(1) The Soviet Government must recognise the existing debt and other obligations resulting from engagements taken regularly."The Conference therefore necessarily arrives at the conclusion that credits and exportations to Russia are only obtainable on the following conditions:
(2) Adequate guarantees must be forthcoming for every credit granted in the future."(1) The Soviet Government must recognise the existing debt and other obligations resulting from engagements taken regularly.
(2) Adequate guarantees must be forthcoming for every credit granted in the future."(1) The Soviet Government must recognise the existing debt and other obligations resulting from engagements taken regularly.311"Consequently the Russian Government, recognising that many small holders of Russian loan, particularly in France, have a direct interest in the recognition of Tsarist debts, declares itself ready to recognise the obligations on the part of other States and their citizens, with respect to State loans concluded by the Tsarist Government before 1914 under the express reserve that there be made special conditions and facilities which would make the realisation of the promise possible."310: I can recall the speech which was made by the Prime Minister on the occasion referred to, and I remember that the House of Commons was moved at the time not merely by the eloquence of the Prime Minister, but by the feeling which that eloquence produced as to the terrible calamity which had fallen upon a very large part of Russia. There is no man in this kingdom more fitted for the work of delivering moving human perorations than the Prime Minister, but in his absence we are entitled to say that this is distinctly an instance for the delivery of something more than perorations. It is an instance for the delivery of adequate national relief, of assistance which should stand above any consideration of the money debts incurred by former Russian Governments and carried still as a responsibility by the present Russian Government. I, of course, welcome the comparatively small contribution of the medical and other supplies which are represented in this Vote. But we must do much more or formally withdraw the language of the Prime Minister in order that no further hope should rest upon anything being
313"If Russia is saved from starvation the unemployment problem throughout the world will be solved. Food is wasting in the granaries of the earth while millions of men, women, and children in Russia are dying for want of food."312(2) Adequate guarantees must be forthcoming for every credit granted in the future."(1) The Soviet Government must recognise the existing debt and other obligations resulting from engagements taken regularly.
(2) Adequate guarantees must be forthcoming for every credit granted in the future."(1) The Soviet Government must recognise the existing debt and other obligations resulting from engagements taken regularly."The Conference therefore necessarily arrives at the conclusion that credits and exportations to Russia are only obtainable on the following conditions:
(2) Adequate guarantees must be forthcoming for every credit granted in the future."(1) The Soviet Government must recognise the existing debt and other obligations resulting from engagements taken regularly.
(2) Adequate guarantees must be forthcoming for every credit granted in the future."(1) The Soviet Government must recognise the existing debt and other obligations resulting from engagements taken regularly.311"Consequently the Russian Government, recognising that many small holders of Russian loan, particularly in France, have a direct interest in the recognition of Tsarist debts, declares itself ready to recognise the obligations on the part of other States and their citizens, with respect to State loans concluded by the Tsarist Government before 1914 under the express reserve that there be made special conditions and facilities which would make the realisation of the promise possible."310Mr. CLYNES
caches314régimerégimerégimerégime.: The right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down failed to notice one very great distinction between the Russia of the present day and all other nations of the world, including the Russia of the Tsarist caches314régimerégimerégimerégime.Mr. HOPKINSON
: No; I said that was all he was asking for, and that if he got it he could do a great deal with it. May I also point out to the hon. Member, as regards seed corn, that in parts of Russia the harvest was quite good, and about half the total quantity was available in Western Russia? Dr. Nansen thought that with the amount mentioned he could do a great deal to tide over the immediate danger.Lord R. CECIL
315: I am within the recollection of the House, and surely that is what I suggested. The Noble Lord said that with £5,000,000 to 10,000,000 Dr. Nansen said he could tide over the immediate danger. Was not the immediate danger that 20,000,000 or more people would starve? Did not Dr. Nansen say that by means of this sum he would be able to save the lives of from 20,000,000 to 25,000,000 people, which is a very cheap rate at which to save life, being anywhere from 5s. to 10s. a head? Supposing that £5,000,000 to £10,000,000 subscribed by the nations of
315Mr. HOPKINSON
: I think it would have been far easier if it had been done a few months ago when you had the waterways.Lord R. CECIL
316: The Noble Lord says it would have been better if it had been
316Mr. HOPKINSON
: Capitalism writ large.Mr. JONES
317: Those are the conditions. Has the Noble Lord taken the trouble to calculate on a piece of paper exactly what the feeding of this population means in rolling stock, and, having calculated that, what it means in locomotives and what it means in the actual permanent way which is necessary to transport millions and millions of tons in a few days right across Russia? It is ludicrous to come down to this House and say that if, before this condition had arisen, the Government had taken steps, it would have been all right. The Noble Lord and his supporters would have been the first to say, "Let us not interfere with the internal affairs of the Russian Government. Let us not tell the Soviet Government they are making a gross economic mistake, and that if they go on like this their population will starve." I feel somewhat angry, because if the Noble Lord had taken the trouble to think three years ago he would have seen the present condition of Russia to have been absolutely inevitable. I have felt it my duty to point out, month by month, during these three years, what was going to be the next step in Russia, and I would suggest that His Majesty's Foreign Office and the other Foreign Offices concerned know perfectly well what is going to be the next step in Russia, and that they are therefore extremely cautious about taking these steps which the Noble Lord suggests. The next step in Russia is perfectly obvious. It is feudalism of the most tyrannous kind—the feudalism of foreign capitalists, foreign barons, to
317Mr. HOPKINSON
: If I had anticipated it, what could I have done?Lord R. CECIL
: If he had anticipated it, he would not have made the speech which he has made to-day.Mr. HOPKINSON
: I should have made exactly the same speech, because I have a heart, thank God.Lord R. CECIL
: I know very well that there is nobody in this House, except the occupants of those benches opposite, who has got a heart at all, but I said the other night, and I repeat it now, that I am sick of these stale bleeding hearts. They begin to stink in our nostrils.Mr. HOPKINSON
: That is why you gave up your pipe.Captain O'GRADY
: I should like to point out that this generosity with other people's money is not really a virtue. However, I shall be out of order in pursuing this subject—Mr. HOPKINSON
: As I was going to remark.Mr. SPEAKER
318: Yes, Sir. Our Government is treating this subject from the point of view of common sense, and so are the other Foreign Offices concerned, and not from the point of view of absurd sentiment. They know very well that it is simply throwing millions into a bottomless pit to send them into Russia at the present time, and their insistence upon recognition of debt was simply an insistence upon a civilised Government of some sort in Russia before they came to its assistance. There is not the least doubt in the world that if these millions were subscribed now, it would not save perhaps more than one or two from starvation. It is impossible to save these unfortunate people. The trouble has come upon them to a large extent through
318Mr. HOPKINSON
: The hon. 'Member for Mossley (Mr. A. Hopkinson) sometimes carries his love for paradox too far. it is all very well to treat the House as solely a sounding board for rather farfetched economic theories, but, if he will forgive me saying so, that is really better done in the pages of the "Fortnightly" or some other review, rather than in the House of Commons, where he can be replied to on the spot. The hon. Gentleman has treated us to a perfect philosophic treatise on how the world must get along without anybody helping anybody else. If anybody helps anybody else, it saps independence, upsets economic laws, and in the end is very bad for the person who is helped. Fortunately, that has not been the policy of England in the past, nor of decent peoples in other countries. When there was a shortage in the trade in which the hon. Member is concerned, the Lancashire cotton trade—Colonel WEDGWOOD
: I am not concerned in that trade.Mr. A. HOPKINSON
: He represents no trade except smoking.Mr. J. JONES
: When there was a shortage in Lancashire during the Civil War in America, the Americans subscribed large sums to relieve the distress in Lancashire. They might, if they had followed the hon. Member's advice, have sent good advice to Lancashire to change from the cotton business into some other business. No doubt it would have been perfectly accurate, but it would not have been helpful, nor would it have helped to bring together the two branches of the Anglo-Saxon race.Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Where is the parallel with Russia?Mr. GOULD
319: They were both in urgent need. The hon. Member for Mossley knows very well that there are occasionally famines in India, and we put our hands into our pockets then, but if we followed his advice we should turn up the pages of Malthus and prove that the population regulated itself. That is all very well, but, fortunately,
319Colonel WEDGWOOD
: No, he has not.Mr. J. JONES
: He has dropped them, so far as industry is concerned, now; but he dropped the Marxian doctrines, so far as the country districts were concerned, as soon as he got his Revolution in November, 1917. There has never been the slightest sign of Marxianism about the peasantry of Russia, and all that happened in the Russian Revolution, so far as the peasants were concerned, was that the peasants got the land instead of the landlords having the land. Marxianism was never applied to them, because the peasants would not look at it. The result in Russia, so far from being the result of Marxianism, might be said to be the result of four or five years of bitter war, when the country has been overrun from one end to the other, very largely by expeditions financed, supported, and cheered on by the hon. Member for Mossley. He says the transport system has broken down.Colonel WEDGWOOD
: The Noble Lord the Member for Hitchin (Lord R. Cecil) says it has not broken down.Mr. HOPKINSON
: I will deal with whether it has broken down or not presently. The hon. Member says the transport system has broken down. Is it any wonder, when Russia has been boycotted and cut off from all civilised countries for the last six or seven years? He says the Russians are quite incapable of organising any relief to the famine areas. Is it wonderful, after they have been killed off as they have been during the last seven years?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: By whom?Mr. GOULD
: By Tsarism.Mr. J. JONES
: I must ask the hon. Member for Silvertown (Mr. J. Jones) and the hon. Member for Central Cardiff (Mr. Gould) not to interrupt.Mr. SPEAKER
: I am not taking this matter as a joke.Mr. GOULD
: No, it has become more than a joke, for the hon. Member has interrupted every alternate sentence not only during my speech, but during the preceding speeches. These things are not the result, as the hon. Member would have us believe, solely of Marxian Government in Russia, but even were they the result of Marxian Government in Russia, I would still say that people in this country are not entitled to allow 35,000,000 or even 20,000,000 or 10,000,000 people to starve, to die slowly of hunger, so long as there is a penny in the pockets of the English people or a pound of food in the country. Whether they are Russians, or whether they are English makes no profound difference to a Christian people, and if even by breaking economic laws we can do something to save these people from starving, I am quite confident, whether we are economically sound or not, we are morally and religiously right.Colonel WEDGWOOD
323"They themselves admit that there is only one way of doing so, that is by giving goods. I say there is only one way of getting the goods there, and that is by restoring that confidence among the trading community, that will make the trading community feel, that they can send their goods there without any danger of their obligations being confiscated in the future."—OFFICIAL REPORT: 16th August, 1921; cols. 1241 and 1242; Vol. 146.]"I hope it will be believed that I do not want to take advantage of this dire calamity, for the purpose of obtaining acceptance of this principle, but I know this is the best way of dealing with the matter. I have gone into it very carefully and I have found that this stood in the way. They themselves admit that you must get the peasants to part with their corn.""If the Soviet Government want to create confidence, if they want to get the trading community to come in to assist them at this juncture, they must say they will recognise all these obligations."322321: I little thought, when I found it my duty to introduce this very unobtrusive Vote, that it would have led to so heated a discussion. I may, perhaps, remind those Members of the House who are not familiar with the Vote that it is, as my Noble Friend the Member for Hitchin (Lord E. Cecil) has said, something in the nature of a book-keeping arrangement. There are, or were, in the possession of the Disposal Board, some large quantities of medical stores, clothing and some amount of tinned meat and other foodstuffs. Of this the Government have decided to allocate, for purposes of relief in Russia, an amount that at pre-War prices was worth £100,000, and at the present values, perhaps, £250,000, and in answer to the question of my Noble Friend, I may say that those stores are to be handed, or have already been handed, to the British Red Cross Society, to be allocated as they please, and under no conditions whatever. I understand that the Red Cross Society is establishing a base at Riga and another at Novorossisk for the purpose of the distribution of these stores. It may have been thought, perhaps, that there was no necessity to come to the House of Commons for a Supplementary Estimate,
323"They themselves admit that there is only one way of doing so, that is by giving goods. I say there is only one way of getting the goods there, and that is by restoring that confidence among the trading community, that will make the trading community feel, that they can send their goods there without any danger of their obligations being confiscated in the future."—OFFICIAL REPORT: 16th August, 1921; cols. 1241 and 1242; Vol. 146.]"I hope it will be believed that I do not want to take advantage of this dire calamity, for the purpose of obtaining acceptance of this principle, but I know this is the best way of dealing with the matter. I have gone into it very carefully and I have found that this stood in the way. They themselves admit that you must get the peasants to part with their corn.""If the Soviet Government want to create confidence, if they want to get the trading community to come in to assist them at this juncture, they must say they will recognise all these obligations."322321The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
: You would not save them all.Colonel WEDGWOOD
324: I wish that every one of them could be saved, but how can that be done by private charity? How otherwise can it be done? How otherwise—to return to the old point—can it be done than by bringing the Soviet Government, whatever political principles they choose to profess, into such a state where they can trade and do business with the outer world? I am informed that it is not only a question of the failure of the harvest in this particular district, great as that has been. It is not only the breakdown and inadequacy of the railway and other transport in Russia; the difficulty is even greater. I am told that there is a complete breakdown in all the machinery of business in Russia itself, that all those little means by which produce is brought to market have been destroyed, because the people have been led to think that all these processes can be, and should be, adequately conducted by Government agency, and Government agency has been no more successful in matters of that kind in Russia than it has been with us in the immediate past. [HON. MEMBERS: "It won the War."] That is what I am told, and that that is perhaps even the largest factor—the breakdown of all kinds of means of com-
324Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Will the hon. Gentleman explain why there has been a change in the policy of the Government?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: I thought I had elaborately explained and tried to make it clear that there has been no change of policy.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: You never had any policy, so you could not change it!Mr. J. JONES
: Does the hon. Gentleman mean to say that the speech of the Prime Minister on 16th August meant that all the Government was going to do was to vote these surplus stores worth £100,000?Lord R. CECIL
: No, Sir. I was stating the position, and explaining the conditions under which, if the Government are so disposed, further and larger aid might be rendered. I have only now to submit this Vote, and I trust the House will give it to me without further delay.Mr. HARMSWORTH
325: If I might turn this discussion round, I would commence by pointing out what the Prime Minister said on this subject. 30,000,000 or 35,000,000 of people on the verge of starvation, dragging across huge spaces of territory and possibly bringing disease into Europe, making it the birthground of pestilence and disease. In that paraphrase I think I am correctly representing the statement of the Prime Minister. I want to suggest that 9 Englishmen out of every 10 seeing starvation would relieve it and then discuss the politics of the starving person or persons afterwards. I do not believe that the discussion in this House represents the heart of this nation. I do not believe that the people outside this House would for a moment consider first of all the politics of Russia, but I believe the true heart of the people would say, "First help if possible, and then afterwards discuss, argue and fight." It is in my belief in that policy that I am going to say a few words on the inadequacy of the Vote before us.325Mr. T. SHAW
: That is not in Order on this Vote.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER (Mr. James Hope)
327326: This discussion has ranged over a very wide field, and I thought I should be justified in pointing out what has led to this system of government which is being used as an excuse for not helping to alleviate the starvation now existing in Russia. We are told that Russia is now keeping up huge armies. Possibly there is reason for that, and that is justified by what I have just stated. It is a sound business proposition to go to the help of these people on the Volga. They are not the Communists of Russia at all, because the Communists reside mostly in Petrograd, Moscow, and other Russian cities and towns. These people are not looked upon by the Soviet authorities as Communists.327326Mr. SHAW
: The other day I was accused by the hon. Member for West Ham (Mr. W. Thorne) of having received an university education. I had no opportunity of refuting this calumny at the moment, but the opportunity has now arrived. I may say that during the time of which he speaks, when I should have been at Oxford, I was already a wage slave in India. But though I never had an university education, I can well remember a magnificent chorus in a splendid play which begins with three words, Sir J. D. REES
: No doubt the hon. Member's remarks are very interesting as reminiscences of his youth, but I do not see what they have got to do with this Vote.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: Then I will come at once to the speech of the hon. Member opposite, which I confess amazes me, and it was that speech which led to the introductory remarks I made. The hon. Member made a speech, the substance of which was that the taxpayers of this country should feed 35,000,000 Russians on the Volga. If he did not mean that money should be given to them, I ask him what did he mean?Sir J. D. REES
328: I suggested that our Government, together with other Govern-
328Mr. SHAW
330329: My hon. Friend, like many other people, takes shelter behind the very inadequate cover of the League of Nations. I never saw a poorer cover for so many refugees in all my life. He says that 35,000,000 people on the Volga are on the verge of starvation and asks who, seeing a poor woman with a hungry baby, would not succour that infant? The difficulty is that the baby is too big. It is quite impossible for the British taxpayer to succour this baby. The hon. Member made a speech which, if I may respectfully say so, did more credit to his heart than to his, head. Surely he must be aware that the pockets of the people of this country are empty? That is the one outstanding fact. If he is not prepared to tax the people further in order to feel these 35,000,000—a number which is getting on for the population of the United Kingdom—what is the use of all this empty sympathy with the people of Russia? It would be kinder if, like myself, he recognised facts rather than indulged in empty sympathy. If he is not prepared to tax the people of this country to feed a population approaching in numbers their own, his speech has no meaning whatsoever. Although it may be useful for consumption in certain quarters, it is not really worthy of consideration in the House of Commons.330329Sir J. D. REES
: Are you aware that we spent over £100,000,000 in attacking Russia?Mr. SHAW
331: What has that got to do with this? If we spent £100,000,000 in attacking Russia, surely we should be still more foolish if we spent more millions in feeding her. Why the hon. Gentleman suggests that there is any merit in throwing good money after bad, a proverbially foolish process, I cannot for the life of me understand. I will ask him to be serious for a moment. Has he any idea of what feeding people by the million means? I am quite sure he has absolutely none. Has he any idea of the area which you have to feed in Russia? Does he know that the 35,000,000 are
331Sir J. D. REES
332: We have listened to a speech from an hon. Member of this House that might well have been delivered from the stage of the Palladium. In so far as we are concerned, we have just been reminded of the fact that we are a little country by one of the greatest Imperialists in this House, by one whom I have heard say here that we are the greatest Empire that the world has ever seen. Yes, and at the present moment we are boasting of the fact that all the Empires that went before are practically small dip candles as against the electric light of modern civilisation as exemplified by the hon. Member for East Nottingham (Sir J. D. Rees). The object of this Vote is to provide assistance for the people of Russia in the time of their great extremity. I am not going to argue
332Mr. J. JONES
: They are our subjects.Sir J. D. REES
333: Our subjects but not our objects. They are just as much opposed to us from an intellectual point of view as the Bolsheviks may be at the present moment. They have never accepted our particular conception of civilisation. Whatever may be said about the people of Russia as a whole we belong to that school of thought in Europe which does not recognise the Bolshevik Government in Russia as being Marxian, as is so often put forward by the other side. Marx never preached that you could strike 12 o'clock at 11, and we here do not accept the philosophy that it is possible to introduce a completely Communist system of Government in the midst of difficult economic circumstances not prepared for such an evolution. In so far as we are concerned the gibes thrown at us in this House to-night do not meet the situation at all. We are not arguing as to the rights and wrongs of Communism, or as to whether Lenin and Trotsky are in direct connection with the hon. Member for East Nottingham. What we do say is that we have some responsibility regarding the position of Russia. Russia saved us in the hour of our greatest danger. If it had not been for what was called the Russian steam roller in the early days of the War, we should not have had the time necessary to prepare for our great onslaught on the Western Front, and it was the sacrifice of millions of Russian lives that gave us time to prepare for that
333Mr. JONES
: May I ask my hon. Friend, as a matter of information, to what he refers?Sir J. D. REES
: I am only referring to the exportation of goods containing the possibilities of disease. The hon. Gentleman knows more about these matters than I do, which accounts for the fact that he asks so many questions. We are not speaking on this matter from the standpoint of the economic or political conceptions of Lenin and Trotsky; we are speaking on the broad issue. Famine has broken out in Europe, and a necessary consequence of famine is pestilence and death. We are asking that the nations of Europe who are best able to help shall give assistance to a great country that has done its bit in the Great War. Whatever may be the faults of the Government in Russia, the people are not responsible. The great masses of the people of Russia have not been consulted as to the form of Government there. [HON. MEMBERS: "Hear, hear!"] I am glad to have so much agreement, and, if you agree with me, I hope you will help us in the application we are now making. The great mass of the people of Russia have never had an opportunity of deciding their form of government, and, that being so, surely they are entitled to your sympathy in their hour of danger, when they are being practically decimated in large sections of the country. We ask for that assistance, and we ask that no question of politics shall enter into it. When a man asks us for assistance we do not ask him what his religion is or what are his politics; we simply try to the best of our ability to meet the immediate situation as it appears to us. Therefore, we hope that the House will be more generous than this Vote suggests, and that the Government will give great consideration to the claims of the people of Russia, because in saving Russia we are saving ourselves.Mr. JONES
335: I hope that the Government will not follow on the lines indicated by the hon. Member for Silver-town (Mr. J. Jones). It is one thing to preach charity and practice charity, but it is one of the Christian virtues that we can only exercise and practice as individuals. It is quite impossible for a board of guardians or a town council to practice charity with other people's money. To practice charity when other people's money is being given away might amount to fraud, or, at any rate, might cause very great hardship. How does the Government know, how does a
335Mr. HAILWOOD
336: I have listened with much interest to the various speeches on this matter from both sides of the House, and I must confess, as one who has had considerable experience in dealing with international problems as far as industry is concerned, and especially as far as the Russian problem is concerned, that I am amazed at the amount of ignorance which has been displayed by certain Members of the House with regard to the economic conditions which prevail in connection with Russia. The whole question of this Vote has turned upon Russia. Let us look at Russia as Russia was in 1914—a country rich and prosperous, though much behind the times in its methods of locomotion and the transport of goods, depending very largely upon river traffic in order to trans-
336Mr. GOULD
: I am afraid I could not say that a survey of the economic conditions of Russia is in order on this Vote. I must ask the hon. Member to come a little nearer to the present time.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
337: I will try to keep within the bounds of order. But I could not help referring to that in discussing the present conditions. We are not in a position to-day, despite all the platitudes which are uttered, of being able to extract from Russia anything that is purchasable. Despite every effort made by British industry and British capital, we are not in a position to do business with Russia. In listening to the statements which have been made as to the amount of business being done by Russia we have to remember that during the first six months of this year the British Empire did 36·6 per cent. of the total export business done with Russia by all the nations of the world. That shows that it is the intense desire of this country to help Russia, and not in any way to stagnate the efforts and desires of Russia to do business. I am certain there is not a, single Member of the House who is not desirous of doing all he can to ameliorate the conditions which exist in parts of Russia where these very many thousands and millions of people perhaps are starving. But, after all said and done, that is due to the Government which they have selected, and they are impotent. Surely that is an example to the people of this country. But we are up against a proposition in this country. We have our own starving thousands and hundreds of thousands to feed, and how can we possibly question the amount of the Vote which the Government has put before us?337Mr. GOULD
Interruption.338: I and some of my friends on these Benches are delighted that something at least is going to be done. We have forecasted for a considerable time the inevitable results of our policy in Russia, and I think, in a very large measure, we have been responsible for bringing it about. Trying to get the people back into a state of health in Russia will be good business for ourselves, especially as our industries are staggering for want of markets. The hon. Member for Central Cardiff (Mr. Gould) says charity commences at home, and I agree that it ought to. if we had not been so much interested in other countries, and so persistent in crushing humble people in Russia by maintaining the blockade which has involved this country in hundreds of millions which were required at home, Russia would have been able to grapple with her economic problem and would have been able to provide for all the exigencies which might have come as time went on. But we did our best to prevent them grappling with social and economic problems, and made it impossible for her to be rehabilitated by assisting Koltchak and the other people, with the result that we are finding that Russia is in a state of collapse, destitution, poverty and famine. At the same time we have not any outlet for our trade, and unless we do something in order that Europe and Russia may be rehabilitated, we likewise shall be in a state of famine. The hon. Member said we ought to visualise Russia, not
Interruption.338Mr. SWAN
: Lieut.-Colonel J. Ward.Mr. SPEAKER
: Oh, my God!Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: You may say so. I can well understand the terror of hon. and gallant Gentleman.Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: Not terror.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
339: I am not speaking at the moment of physical terror. Neither is there on the part of his opponents, let me tell him. It is rather remarkable that this discussion should have taken the turn it has. I understood my hon. Friends above the Gangway mostly belonged to what is called the "Hands off Russia Committee," who absolutely support the doctrine that under no possible circumstances are the British Government entitled to interfere in anything that happens in Russia. It is only a little while ago that the hon. and gallant Member for Central Hull (Lieut.-Commander Kenworthy) and the hon. and gallant Member for Newcastle-under-
339Lieut.-Colonel WARD
: Question.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
340: Hon. Members above the Gangway, especially the hon. and gallant Member for Central Hull, are not the only men who have sympathy for Russia. I suggest to the hon. and gallant Member that within ten years from now the Russians who will then control Russia, when Russia is able to speak her mind, will not thank him for the assistance that he has given, but will, on the contrary, say that a great deal of this help might have been honest, but that it was useless, and worse. The whole claim that I have made ever since I returned from Russia was that there should be, at least, an opportunity given for the people of Russia to have a say in the management of Russia. The people who have been supported hitherto by my hon. Friends above the Gangway have absolutely and emphatically denied that right
340Lieut.-Colonel WARD
: I do nothing of the kind.Mr. SWAN
: There were nothing but empty markets, but the moment that Koltchak's lines gave security of property, and gave security to the peasant for the result of his labours, the markets were crowded. We had no difficulty in getting food. Get a really honest. Government in Russia, a country with illimitable opportunities and potentialities for trade, and get some kind of guarantee from your friends, Lenin and Trotsky, that the man who tills the soil will be entitled to the harvest of his labour, and you will no longer have any famine. You know that as well as I do. That country could feed half the world. Between Vladivostok and the Urals, or certainly between there and the Caspians, it is a debatable point whether you could not house the whole of the people of Europe. To talk about sending from this poor, overburdened community a miserable £5,000,000 to one of the wealthiest countries in the world, which is only poor because of the utter incapacity, incompetence, and corruption of its Government is the most foolish thing that could be suggested, and I am pleased to think that the House has got ordinary common sense, and will not for one moment. support such a suggestion.Lieut.-Colonel WARD
342: I have been engaged in trying to keep one of the supporters of my hon. and gallant Friend out of the House of Commons at a bye-election and, therefore, I was unfortunate enough not to have heard the whole Debate. I did not intend to take part in it, but certain remarks have been made in regard to myself and other hon. Members which require an answer. I have never protested against the spending of money upon Russian refugees. The hon. Member for East Nottingham (Sir J. D. Rees) will agree with me that he has protested against the spending of money upon these unfortunate refugees. What I have done—and this will be borne out by the Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs, who has treated me very courteously in connection with my numerous worryings of him and his office —has been to suggest that we should enter into some negotiations with the Russian Government to get these people returned to their own country under an amnesty, and I understand that that could have been done long since, but that certain difficulties were put in the way not on the Russian side, and the latest
342Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I cannot go into that, but my hon. and gallant Friend is not presenting the case as I understand it.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I am presenting the ease as I understand it, but I can not go into that now. I think that the whole policy of bolstering up the ridiculous attempts of Koltchak and Denikin was utterly wrong, but having done it the unfortunate dupes, the victims of Churchillism, should be saved from starvation. The hon. and gallant Gentleman has the advantage over me of having penetrated into Siberia since the close of the War. I do not question what he says about Siberia, but the sum voted for drugs is for the starving poor of the Volga basin, and has nothing to do with Siberia at all. It affects the area which was ravaged by Denikin, the lieutenant of the hon. and gallant Gentleman's hero, Koltchak.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: He never got anywhere near it.Lieut.-Colonel WARD
: Denikin penetrated into the Volga area, and on his retreat he devastated the country and blew up bridges and burned towns, and the hon. and gallant Gentleman ought to know it.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: I can assure the hon. and gallant Gentleman that neither Denikin nor Koltchak ever got within hundreds of miles of the part of the country where the famine is.Lieut.-Colonel WARD
344343: The hon. and gallant Gentleman apparently has better information than the Prime Minister who, speaking in this House before the Recess, advocated relief for these people on the ground that they had supported the rule of Denikin, so perhaps the hon. and gallant Gentleman will give his information to the Prime Minister. The hon. and gallant Gentleman says that this famine is due entirely to the Bolshevik Government. Are the drought, and the present cold
344343Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: On a point of Order. What have Mrs. Snowden and her book to do with the question whether we should spend £100,000 in the relief of distress in Russia?Sir F. BANBURY
: The Debate has taken a wider course than I had anticipated, but I think it is only right that a reply should be made to the speech of the hon. and gallant Member for Stoke (Lieut.-Colonel J. Ward).Mr. SPEAKER
: Mrs. Snowden has been so frequently quoted in that favourite organ of the hon. Baronet who represents the City of London, the "Morning Post," and in other papers, and I wish also to refer to the opinions of other visitors like Dr Nansen. Such people, who cannot be accused of being Bolshevists, maintain that the only possible Government to-day in Russia is the present Government. It may be some comfort to hon. Gentlemen who have not yet realised that, to know that the Soviet Government has dropped its communism. It is worth helping. Those hon. Members opposite who look under their beds every night to see if a Bolshevist is there might really look into the recent facts. The Soviet Government is allowing free trade, the free employment of labour, and is encouraging private enterprise. Under these circumstances it is worth helping. The members of the Soviet Government have acknowledged their mistakes. They have retreated from their position and kept order in their country. They are organising famine relief, and of the relief sent already only about one-half per cent. has been lost or pilfered. Yet when we propose to find £100,000 for medicines for Russia we get the hon. and gallant Member for Stoke protesting and thanking his stars that this House will not consent to any proposal for sending more relief.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: That is wrong.Lieut.-Colonel WARD
345: I think I am correctly interpreting the
345Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: No, you could not. "We are the governing class!"Mr. J. JONES
: On a point of Order. I would like to ask how long this Debate is going to continue on a private Member's question?Mr. JONES
: I think it was understood yesterday, when I brought before the House a question of privilege, that it was to be raised to-day after you, Sir, had had time to look into it. Since the House met yesterday I have taken every step open to me to communicate with the hon. Member for West Rhondda (Mr. W. John). I left a letter for him addressed at the Post Office. As there were no means of telegraphing to him, his address not being there, that was all I could do. Yesterday I read to the House a portion of a report in Monday's issue of the "Western Mail," containing the words upon which I would base a Motion to be made at the conclusion of my short speech. In addition to the direct oration there is more in the oblique oration, making it clear that what the hon. Member said referred to the character and conduct of his colleagues in the House of Commons. Of course, it does not follow, because an hon. Member is reported in the Press to have used certain words, that he has necessarily done so, but the "Western Mail" is a journal of very high reputation served by very capable officers, and I do not suppose that it is inaccurate.Sir J. D. REES
"Sons of Belial flown with insolence and wine."229"I should like to take some of the Rhondda miners to witness a Debate in the House of Commons, to see the wealthy landlords coming up from their dining rooms three parts drunk. Some of them cannot stand,
229: I presume that the hon. Member for West Rhondda will be here, but at any rate, without any comment, I will read the passage concerned. It is stated here that Mr. William John, Member for West Rhondda, addressing a meeting of miners on Sunday evening, said,
"Sons of Belial flown with insolence and wine."229"I should like to take some of the Rhondda miners to witness a Debate in the House of Commons, to see the wealthy landlords coming up from their dining rooms three parts drunk. Some of them cannot stand,
229Sir J. D. REES
230: I beg to move, "That the said speech is a gross libel on the
230Sir J. D. REES
231: This House could not pass over so grave an attack upon its dignity and reputation as the hon. Gentleman is reported in the Press to have made, the moment that that report was brought to the attention of the House. It was only natural that some Member of the House should, as my hon. Friend the Member for East Nottingham (Sir J. D. Rees) has done, after due notice, have moved that that utterance constitutes a grave breach of the privileges of this House. But the hon. Member for West Rhondda (Mr. John) has done what we all hoped he would do. He has unreservedly withdrawn the statements that were made, and unfeignedly expressed his regret at having made them. Under these circumstances, I venture to think we should best observe our traditional attitude and preserve our own dignity—these proceedings being noted as they will be, and that apology being noted, as it will be, on the Journals of the House—if we proceed no further in the matter. I hope my hon.231Mr. CHAMBERLAIN (Leader of the House)
: I readily accept that suggestion, and beg to ask the leave of the House to withdraw the Motion I made.Sir J. D. REES
: I am not at all sure that I am in order, but it will be within your recollection that, when the Third Reading of the Trade Facilities Bill was put there was such a buzz of conversation that it was extremely difficult—in fact, impossible—for anyone to get in, and I want to ask you if it would be in order to make on this Vote any remarks on that subject. I confess I do not see immediately how it can be done, but I did try the other day.Sir J. D. REES
: As this much discussed Vote is passing from us, I want to make one comment. The amount that we are discussing, namely, £2,192,000, is a contribution which the taxpayer is making for the relief of the ratepayer in this period of great emergency. The Minister shakes his head, but that is the fact. This £2,192,000 is a sum which the guardians of the poor, in determining the relief they give, may deduct from that relief, and, therefore, it is directly a sum contributed in relief of the ratepayer by the taxpayer. The comment I wish to make is that it is entirely inadequate, and it seems to me that the attitude which the Government have taken up in this matter is throwing back upon those who are responsible for rating the ratepayer a very grave responsibility indeed. They will have to consider how far they are going to go in that direction. The House is likely, I understand, to rise in a few days, and will not be sitting for, perhaps, two or three months. During that time, the depths of the winter, it is extremely likely that this emergency will deepen and darken, and that very great claims will require to be made upon the ratepayers; and those who are responsible for making this levy will have to consider whether they are going to accept that responsibility. I suppose that the last thing one should do in this House is to indicate to any persons or body of persons that it may rest upon them not really to carry out the duties with which they are charged; but that step has already been taken by an important authority, and not without result.Major BARNES
: I bow with entire submission to your ruling. I thought that it would be in order to comment upon the adequacy of the amount. At any rate, I have partly achieved my purpose in making the comment that I have made, and, in deference to your ruling, I will proceed no further.Major BARNES
254: Questions were asked yesterday by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Peebles (Sir D. Maclean), myself, and others with regard to the position of Scotland under the distribution of this grant. The Minister for Health replied that Scotland would be dealt with according to her needs, and not according to the exact eleven-eightieths proportion. I hope Scotland will be dealt with according to her needs, because her needs are even greater in proportion than those of England. In England there are some 600 boards of guardians and unions dealing with the population of 40,000,000. In Scotland we have 960 parishes dealing with a population of 4,500,000. Consequently the local authorities who have to relieve unemployment are very much smaller and have very much poorer and smaller areas of assessable value from which to draw money. Already many of the poorer parishes in the large industrial districts where unemployment is rife have found great difficulty in getting the money to deal with unemployment up to date, and they are faced during the winter with a very much more serious state of affairs. Under the Bill which has passed its Third Reading, these local authorities can apply for loans, but they have to find a lender, and who is going to lend unless there is some security? Many of these parishes will not be able to borrow money on the security of a very small assessable value. They will have to come to 'the Central Government for assistance either in the form of a loan or a grant, and I hope Scotland will be considered according to her needs and not merely according to her proportion. But I want to ask further by whom these needs are to be decided. The right hon. Baronet said there would be the Cabinet Unemployment Committee, but it is not reasonable to expect that a Committee of the Cabinet. is going to decide whether some
254Lieut.-Colonel Sir J. HOPE
: Can the hon. Member tell me if there is a representative from Ireland on the Committee?Lieut.-Colonel Sir W. ALLEN
: Can the hon. Member say if this Committee will be set up at once? I understand there are some very urgent cases.Sir J. HOPE
: In this case the principal industry in the district is stopped altogether.Mr. JONES
: On a point of Order. Is it not a fact that on all the relief works now in progress a fair trade union rate of pay is being paid?Mr. JONES
: Of course there are.Mr. J. JONES
: I know more about unemployment than you do.Mr. JONES
: Yes, and in the whole country.Mr. JONES
270: I am very sorry to interrupt. I take the case of builders' labourers and other men like that, large numbers of whom are out of work. Will these men be considered as having fulfilled their probationary period if they are acquainted with the work concerned in
270Mr. JONES
272271: The Minister of Health has referred to the action of the local authorities at the conference which he had with them. I gather he quoted that in support of his attitude on the rate of pay. He will forgive me if I point out that that conference specially pressed upon him the desirability of giving the
272271Mr. T. THOMSON
362: I represent a constituency which includes a very large percentage of seamen. I want, on their part, to thank the Government for their action. The hon. and gallant Member for Hull asked why legislation was not introduced immediately in order to give practical effect to the findings of this Conference? Ii the findings of the Conference are nothing but a pious resolution I am pre- pared to support the hon. and gallant Member, but I rise to ask the Minister of Labour whether it is not the fact that all the findings and recommendations of this Conference have been agreed to, both on
362Mr. EVANS
: What steps has Japan taken to get down to the 48-hour week suggested?Mr. GREENWOOD
43.  asked the Minister of Pensions the total number of lunatic asylums approved of by the Ministry of Pensions for ex-service men and the number of such approved institutions which are run for private gain?Captain LOSEBY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman tell me, without notice, how many institutions there are other than pauper asylums and private licensed asylums approved of by his Department?Captain LOSEBY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman tell me whether there are any at all?Captain LOSEBY
8.  asked the Secretary of State for India if a Mr. H. A. Painter, a non-service man, was engaged by the India Office Legal Advices Department in September last at a salary of £200, rising to £250 per annum; if at the time of his engagement by the India Office he was in other employment; why no notification of the vacancy was posted on the staff side notice board in accordance with the promise given at the Departmental Whitley Council, and in consequence no member of the staff knew of, or had the opportunity of applying for, the vacancy; if he is aware of the fact that suitable unemployed candidates are available from ex-service men's associations; and what action he purposes taking in this matter?Captain LOSEBY
: Does that mean the House of Commons will have no statement whatever about the results of this Circular?Captain BENN
55.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury whether he is now in a position to make a statement as to the results of the Treasury Circular of 13th May last and the reductions promised in reply?Captain W. BENN
12. 184 asked the Secretary of State for India whether Mohammed Ali and Shaukat Ali and the four others who it is reported have been convicted and sentenced to two years' rigorous imprisonment are by birth subjects of British
184Sir C. YATE
6.  asked the Secretary of State for India what steps have been taken to put a stop to the circulation of leaflets in India tampering with the loyalty of the Indian Army; how many of the authors and printers of these leaflets have been prosecuted and with what result; and whether any of those who signed these leaflets have been allowed to go free?Sir C. YATE
4.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether, considering that many of the so-called trade unions in India are stated to be little more than strike committees, and in view of the acts of violence and intimidation which have characterised a large proportion of the disputes in which these committees have been concerned, it is the intention of the Government of India to proceed with legislation for the purpose of giving legal status to trade unions in India, and to define the law of agency in such a way that no act could be made the ground of a claim on trade union funds unless it was definitely proved that the governing body had sanctioned the act; and whether, having regard to the difficulty of obtaining definite proof in a country like India, and to the fact that the majority of these loose organisations publish no accounts and assign no functions to their governing body, he will consider the question of the unfairness to the rest of the community of either legalising picketing or of putting these so-called trade unions outside the law?Sir C. YATE
: Is the status of the married officer in India now receiving consideration, or has the question been shelved?Colonel Sir C. YATE
: Is the question justified in saying that many of these trade unions are little more than "strike committees"?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that in these schools ethical doctrines are taught as sound as any doctrine could be?Colonel WEDGWOOD
 asked the Home Secretary whether he will have a full inquiry conducted by non-official people into the management and conduct of the new Weymouth Institute, alias Portland Prison, where the boy Bucking ham committed suicide and other attempted escapes have occurred?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: In view of these two suicides—I understand since my question was put down there has been another case—and the number of attempts to escape from this institution, would it not be possible to have an independent inquiry?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Can you combine the Borstal system, which is intended to give a certain amount of liberty, with Portland Prison, which was established and organised for quite other purposes?Colonel WEDGWOOD
9. 182 asked the Secretary of State for India what action, if any, is being taken by his Department or the Government of India to hasten orders for machinery, materials, etc. required for railway and transport service in India of
182Major GLYN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman do anything to encourage orders from India in order to give work to men who are unemployed in this country?Major GLYN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman receive a deputation of workers?Major GLYN
10.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether he is in a position to make any statement as to the policy of the Government or of the Government of India which will give effect to some of the proposals contained in the Report of the Committee set up to inquire into the position of Indian railways; whether any limit of time has been put to the period of consideration by the Government of India in view of the urgency of some of the recommendations?Major GLYN
11.  asked the Secretary of State for India how much money is each year spent by the Government of India and by the Provincial Governments upon printing; whether, if the habit of having each and every memorandum, minute, order, telegram, or other document printed was reduced, not only would a considerable financial saving be effected, but the secrecy and confidential character of official documents might be proportionately respected: whether a committee has been inquiring into the organisation and system of Government Departments in India; and whether this matter may be specially considered?Major GLYN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman not aware that no documents printed in India can be regarded as absolutely secret and that the only way in which documents can be kept secret is by having them type written?Major GLYN
: What is the use of keeping up this expensive Department?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: What is the use of this expensive Department if it cannot prevent occurrences of this sort?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
45.  asked the Prime Minister whether the terms of the recent agreement between the French Government and the Turkish Nationalist Government of Angora have been communicated to His Majesty's Government; whether they will be laid upon the Table of the House; and what steps have been taken to safeguard opportunities for British enterprise and commerce in the. territories handed over to Turkish control.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Has the hon. Gentleman seen the repeated statements that very valuable exclusive concessions have been promised to French capitalists, and is the situation being watched from the point of view of English capitalists?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Does not my question refer to the recent agreement, and is the Government satisfied that British commercial rights are not infringd in the other parts of Turkey under the agreement?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: May I ask a question on this point—Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: How do you know that?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Does the right hon. Gentleman consider that the state of the national finances justifies the keeping of this Department at war strength?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
32.  asked the Home Secretary whether the special branch of Scotland Yard, hitherto under the control of Sir Basil Thomson, K.C.B., has been abolished or reduced; whether any economy of public money is anticipated from this change; and, if so, what is the estimated amount per year?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: The apprentice is usually a married man with a family.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
246: I should like to put one or two points to the Minister of Labour. The first is with regard to the period through which this will run. What will happen if the sum is either exceeded or is not all expended? May I explain what I have in my mind. I am afraid there will have to be a good deal of parish relief given in spite of these allowances for dependants. I do not think in many cases it will be possible, especially when there is sickness in a poor family, for them to get on without having recourse to the parish, as these allowances are altogether inadequate where sickness prevails. Indeed, I hope my fellow countrymen will sink any pride they may have and go to the parish in a case where the welfare of children is concerned. It is therefore quite conceivable that the money may not all be expended, and in that case I wish to ask the, right hon. Gentleman, and I apologise for doing so, but I fear that in the earlier stages of the Bill it was not very definitely stated what would happen to the money unexpended. I take it that any excess cannot be used for giving additional benefits within the scope of the Act, for that is impossible by statute. Is the money to be paid back into the Treasury, or will it go to swell the reserve of the Insurance Fund? This, I submit, is a point of substance, because part of this money will be extracted from the pockets of employers and of employed persons who are still in employment. Will it he dealt with as an ordinary saving by the Government Department concerned? If the right hon. Gentleman can tell us his plans with regard to that, I shall be very glad.246Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I regret that the rules of Debate are so limited, although I am, of course, obliged to you for reminding me of it. I had intended on this Motion to make a protest in view of the feeling which I found to exist in industrial districts in the North, where unemployment is most severely felt. I am sorry that the limitations of Debate will curtail my remarks on that point. I do not know whether I am entirely in order in what I am going to say now, but, of course, you will check me if I am not. I think it would' be far better if the Government were really to go into the whole question why these people need relief at this moment.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: We do not want to tell them their business, but we ought to have a broad discussion upon the matter. We had a broad discussion on the question of the Washington Conference last Friday. Why not on this question? We might have a Committee of the House appointed to go into the matter, and then the House would have some sort of say before the conclusions are arrived at, and it would not be necessary for so many protests to be raised in different parts of the House. The present system is entirely wrong. We ought to have some voice in the selection of the delegates, and we ought to be informed what are the broad lines of policy. I am sometimes doubtful whether cur representatives know themselves what the policy is.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
359: It is a voluntary arrangement. Why has the Government delayed in meeting these cases? The present arrangement is a
359Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: The Seafaring Council. Why do the Government wait to bring in a Bill next year which may be months before it gets a place on the Order Paper and is passed? How do we know that the Government will be here next Session?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: I hope they will not be. The Government ought to do something this Session. I do not think it is quite good enough for the Government to ask us to pass pious resolutions approving of this draft Convention, and then to say they will bring in legislation next Session. Why cannot they do something now in this case? Are the seamen who are actually in distress through the loss, through the foundering of their ships, provided for? Are the Government certain; if not, they ought to see that these men are indemnified in the spirit and letter of the draft Convention. If we could be assured on that point, I should be delighted. In regard to the 43-hour week for the fishing trade, I agree with the Government. I have been in trawlers, and I know something of the fishing industry. How there could be a 43-hour week for the fishing trade I do not know. You might do it in regard to tile firemen and the enginemen, but that is about all. Who represented the fishermen at Genoa? Did the hon. Member for South Shields (Mr. Havelock Wilson)? His members belong to an entirely different union from the fishermen, most of whom do not belong to any union. There is the Skippers' Association. Did the British Government representative speak for the fishermen? How did we come to make through our representatives at Genoa a recommendation which has been immediately laughed out of court in this House? The matter is a little vague. This is an important matter, and it is not right for the right hon. Gentleman to ride off and say that this is rather unimportant matter.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Of course I apologise to the right hon. Gentleman. I am sorry I misrepresented him. But he talked two or three times about the lad hour, and asked us to let the thing go through.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Well, he did not. On the fishermen's question I agree with the Government, but it is a peculiar thing that the recommendation should come from Genoa, where the owners were strongly represented, when it was turned down on the great liners.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: I asked who did.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: What was the attitude taken by the Government representatives on the point of the hours of employment of seamen? That is the burning question.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
355: I believe I am right in saying that this Conference was called to carry out the findings arrived at at the Washington International Labour Conference. If we are not now to discuss why certain things
355Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I represent the third shipping port in the country, and I have had this matter thrashed out at seamen's meetings in that port. I am very sorry your ruling, Sir, prevents us from discussing the omissions of the Government and confines us entirely to their commissions. However, I have a sneaking sympathy with the right hon. Baronet the Member for the City (Sir F. Banbury): These international conventions are held. This one seems to have been successful from the shipowners' point of view.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I hope from their point of view, too. Delegates were sent out by the Government. The House knows nothing about them. We are not consulted and do not know who represents us. No discussion takes place before the Convention sits. Then we are faced with the results and we are told we have to back up the British representatives and honour their signatures. The system is entirely wrong. I am all for these international conventions. They are the greatest hope of the future. If we want to prevent ourselves being undercut we must have international arrangements to keep up the standard of living. We ought to be invited to lay down broad lines of policy for our delegates, we ought to approve the delegates, and then we should be prepared to stand by them without question.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
264: I had intended to say something on this question of the Cornish miners, but the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Camborne (Mr. Acland), with whom I wish to associate myself, has left nothing for me to say. He has covered all the ground I wished to cover except that he has not emphasised sufficiently the destitution of the Cornish miner, which is best shown by the fact that 78 per cent. of the mining population are now practically living on charity. Bands of them are going all round the county collecting.for their present maintenance, but that cannot go on indefinitely. There are two or three schemes—I have just put one into the Minister's hands—which may help to give some relief. Some 7,000 men are out of work, and the mines are closed. The Government catered for the wants of the coalminers, but they have absolutely neglected the Cornish miners. The Cornish mines have been closed finally on account of the high price of coal. To that they attribute the closing of their mines.264Sir E. NICHOLL
: Emigration.Sir E. NICHOLL
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that Mr. Duncan McNaught is the greatest living authority on the important subject of the life of Robert Burns, and was it not greatly to the public advantage in Scotland that he should have gone on for this extra number of years teaching the children of Scotland? Why is he penalised?Mr. A. SHAW
: The greatest.Mr. SHAW
: I presume my hon. and gallant Friend refers to the Commission recently set up by the Governor to enquire into the industrial employment of children in Hong Kong and which bears no special reference to muit sai. Its report has not yet been received, but I understand that it should be available shortly.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for the COLONIES (Mr. Edward Wood)
: If I have heard my hon. and gallant Friend rightly I do not think he could have appreciated what I said in my reply, which was that the question into which the Commission was to inquire had no reference to the question of muit sai, on which, as he knows, there is a great deal to be said.Mr. WOOD
: My information is that the whole question was inquired into carefully. The driver was held not to have been responsible.Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
196: I am informed that Private Peters was discharged medically unfit with the pension and in the circumstances stated, but it is necessary also to point out that he had served in the Army for six years only, and that in the opinion of the medical authorities his disability was not caused or aggravated by military service or climate. Private Peters' records indicate that he was married after discharge and when already suffering from his dis-
196Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
ex gratia: The opinions of the judges in this case were directed solely to the question whether an action for compensation for injury can lie against the Crown. It is not the practice of the Department to rely on its legal immunity and to refuse to pay compensation for injuries which have been caused by the wrongful acts of its servants. But in the present case, which has been carefully investigated by the Department, I am advised that the driver of the motor car was in no way to blame for the accident, and I am not prepared to make an ex gratiaThe FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the WAR OFFICE (Lieut.-Colonel Stanley)
: I am afraid that is a legal question which I am not competent to answer.Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
: Because the whole of the circumstances of the case were inquired into.Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
: Undoubtedly.Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
193: I have ascertained by reference to the Australian Force authorities that the amount claimed as compensation by the Territorial Force Association, namely, £1,766. was not considered or agreed to by them. On the contrary the claim, which was in the form of an estimate, was passed by the Australian Force authorities to the War Office without comment on the day after receipt, namely, on 28th August, 1919. On examination, the War Department found it necessary to reduce the estimated claim to £1,334, which amount covered both the period of occupation by the Australian Forces and the subsequent period of occupation by the Navy and Army Canteen Board, referred to in the last part
193Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
parturient months nascetur ridicules mus."parturient months nascetur ridicules mus.: May I draw attention to the fact that America was not represented at this Conference, though it is to-day the second greatest maritime country in the, world. That shows the absurdity of going on with these Conventions and Conferences in the absence of America. Out of all this, all we have really got is the Second Part of Article 2 of the recommendation about the unemployment indemnity in case of loss or foundering of the ship. No doubt it is a good thing for seamen, and we are not going to object to it, but that is all we get out of this wonderful Convention. I do not think there has ever been a better illustration of Horace's dictum:
parturient months nascetur ridicules mus."parturient months nascetur ridicules mus.Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: I have been a sailor, too.Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
56.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury how many disabled ex-service men are under notice of dismissal in each of the various Government Departments?Mr. RAPER
: Will the right hon. Gentleman receive a deputation on the subject?Mr. RAPER
: Will the hon. Gentleman promise to do what he can for these unfortunate men? Will he cancel all notices of dismissal of disabled ex-service men while there are any non-service men and women being employed on the same work in the same Department?Mr. RAPER
27.  asked the Home Secretary whether he is aware that on a recent occasion the chief clerk of a Metropolitan Police Court communicated to the newspaper Press, in his official capacity, on a controversial matter such as licensing hours and drunkenness; and can he take any steps to stop such practices?Mr. RAPER
40.  asked the Postmaster-General if, in order to assist British civil aviation, he will take steps to make an issue of aerial postage stamps?Mr. RAPER
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware of the fact that already in France they are issuing special aerial postage stamps and that it has been very helpful to the service?Mr. RAPER
: Can the hon. Gentleman say whether he expects the answer of the French Government as to the publication of this Treaty before the rising of the House?Lord ROBERT CECIL
42.  asked the Postmaster-General whether he is aware that post offices have refused to allow paper-maker's circulars to be sent at the special printed paper rates, because the circulars had printed on them, "This is a sample of our paper"; that firms are thereby being handicapped in their efforts to push trade; and whether he can see his way to order that such circulars are not to be treated as samples?Major M. WOOD
36. 206 asked the Secretary for Scotland whether his attention has been directed to the uncertainty still existing in the minds of farmers in Scotland as to the payment of the £4 per acre of oats under the Corn Production Acts (Repeal) Act in cases where there has been a change of tenancy; whether it was the intention of the Government that the whole sum of £4 should be paid in respect of this year and no part in
206Major M. WOOD
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that they are not admitted as samples?Major WOOD
37.  asked the Secretary for Scotland whether the Government has decided to treat applications for small holdings from ex-service men received after 1st March, 1921, as in the same category as others; if so, when this decision was reached, and when and in what manner it was brought to the notice of possible ex-service applicants; whether he is aware that many ex-service men have delayed their applications under the impression that there was no need for haste in view of the fact that thousands of their comrades who have made their applications three or four years ago have not yet gat holdings and whether he will suspend the,decision until all possible ex-service applicants have had adequate notice of it?Major M. WOOD
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that many ex-soldiers have just left hospital and that they will be deprived of the benefits of this particular Act?Major WOOD
: But is it not a matter of fact that they will not be considered as ex-service men if they apply now, and that they will be deprived of the benefit of ex-service men merely because they have been in hospital?Major WOOD
: Who was it that held the driver was not responsible?Major WOOD
: Is not the question of the responsibility of the driver a matter for the Courts, and not for the War Office, and will the hon. and gallant Gentleman not see that the matter is brought before the Courts, so that the Courts will have an opportunity of giving a decision on the legal question?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
: I should be glad to know.Sir W. ALLEN
: The hon. Member for Middlesbrough (Mr. T. Thomson) has failed entirely to think what is the really important point at issue, and that is, Where is the Money going to come from? Only last week two miners in my own village showed me their wages checks for the last week. In both cases they put in five shifts in the pit, and in both cases their wages were between 30s. and 40s. a week. Theirs is not a case of the brutal capitalist grinding them down; it is the case of a pit which is actually in the hands of a receiver, because, even paying those wages, he could not make ends meet. Are these unfortunate miners, working five shifts a week in the pits, to have their wages week by week taken away from them to keep able-bodied paupers employed at a higher rate of wages? That is the whole point. Every penny that is spent on these relief works will come sooner or later out of the pockets of those men who are still employed on useful work in industry—every penny of it—through the rates or through the taxes, one or the other. It comes from the same pockets. It must come from those industries which are still in work, and it must come out of the pockets of those unfortunate men who, whether they are working one day, or two days, or even five days a week, at productive work, have to find the money to keep, as I say, able-bodied paupers in conditions of greater comfort than they themselves can possibly attain. It is really sickening to hear one Member after another get up on the other side of the House, and claim that the unfortunate miner in the pit is to have part of his very small wages taken away from him week by week to be given to people not working, because the hon. Member for Middlesbrough knows as well as I do that men engaged on relief works for local authorities never by any chance give a fair return for their wages.Mr. A. HOPKINSON
: May I ask the Leader of the House whether he will be good enough to bring on the Houses of Parliament Vote at an earlier period next Session? [HON. MEMBERS: "No, no!"]Commander BELLAIRS
219: I desire to ask you, Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that the First Commissioner of Works has expressed his willingness to place
219Commander BELLAIRS
: Obviously I cannot say, but I hope so.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I hate said nothing as to that.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: My hon. and gallant Friend asked me a question about a particular strip of territory, and I have confined my answer to that.Mr. HARMSWORTH
207: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. The question of the official publication of the agreement is dependent on the permission of the French Government, who are being consulted. The only territory handed over to Turkish control which would not have come under such control under the Treaty of Sevres is a strip of
207The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
14.  asked the Secretary of State for War if he is aware that the Musicians' Union, which represents over 90 per cent. of the professional musicians of this country, and which strongly objects to the unfair competition with them of military and service bands, agreed to waive this objection provided Army bands were not allowed to undercut the rates that had been agreed upon between the members of the Musicians' Union and their employers; that his representatives concerned at the War Office met representatives of the Musicians' Union and gave this undertaking, and also agreed with them as to the minimum rates Army bands should charge when quoting for engagements in competition with professional musicians; that, despite this honourable undertaking, the agreement was broken by his representatives without any further consultation or communication with the representatives of the Musicians' Union who were loyally carrying it out; and that Army bandmasters are now allowed to quote any terms they think fit when canvassing for civilian engagements; and whether he will take steps to have this undertaking carried out in future?Mr. JESSON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman not aware that instances have been brought to the notice of his Department?Mr. JESSON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman state what other useful purpose the officials of this particular Department serve, except to warn the public of the confusion and unrest that would be caused in the labour world if they interfered in every other trade and profession in the same way?Mr. JESSON
15.  asked the Secretary of State for War if he is aware that, notwithstanding the present abnormal unemployment in the country, the proprietors of the West Pier, Brighton, have discharged their permanent orchestra and are engaging relays of military bands in its place on the grounds that these bands, are much cheaper than those composed of professional musicians, and this notwithstanding the fact that the professional musicians concerned have offered to accept reductions in their salaries of 18s. and 20s. per week; whether he has considered the effect such unfair competition would have upon the present labour unrest if his Department allowed military units to compete in the same way with every other trade and profession in the country; and whether he proposes to abolish this unfair competition, or at least see that the rates agreed upon between professional musicians and their employers are not undercut by Army bands?Mr. JESSON
: The Commissioner of Police is of opinion that the disturbance in Shaftesbury Avenue and Piccadilly Circus was a spontaneous outbreak on the part of the procession when they learned they would not he allowed to proceed to Trafalgar Square to hold a meeting. I have dealt in reply to a previous question with the disturbance in the Central Hall. The police believe that that disturbance was engineered by Communists, but they have no evidence of what particular person or persons were responsible, or of the payment of money to any persons.Mr. SHORTT
: An improved waterproof suit is being introduced for the use of men on point duty in wet weather. White overalls are not considered suitable for point duty under the conditions of London traffic.Mr. SHORTT
: I am making inquiries, and will communicate further with the hon. Member.Mr. SHORTT
: I am not aware of that.Mr. SHORTT
: The answer is in the negative.Mr. SHORTT
: My attention has been drawn to the existence of such schools. There is no power to close them, and I am afraid I cannot hold out any hope that legislation will be undertaken.The SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Mr. Shortt)
: I have already given the details of the case.Mr. SHORTT
: Yes. The girls have been most successful in the Ailesbury Convict Prison for some time.Mr. SHORTT
: It was understood that admission to this meeting was to be by ticket only, but a party of police patrolled outside and was augmented at 8 p.m. At 8.50 p.m. the officer in charge was informed by the Secretary to the Central Hall authorities that men inside the building were attempting to storm the platform and damage the flags, and he feared that some persons would be assaulted. The officer in charge immediately entered the building with his force of police, ejected the ringleaders, and the others left. No persons were arrested. The duties of the police are confined to entering a building when called upon to prevent breaches of the peace, or to arrest persons charged with offences for which there is power to arrest. The police take action in the streets to prevent law-abiding citizens being attacked, whether by seditious mobs or any other person. The suggestion at the end of the question is unfounded.Mr. SHORTT
: I have told the hon. and gallant Member I intend to visit the institution, and I will consider whether it is necessary to have an inquiry. As far as the attempted escapes are concerned. I do not attach great importance to them. Our system is to give the boys a great deal of freedom in order to try to develop their sense of honour, and, of course, you will get cases of attempted escapes. As to the cases of suicide, that, of course, is an entirely different matter.Mr. SHORTT
: The Medical Inspector of Prisons and Dr. Pearson, who has special experience of Borstal inmates, visited the Portland Institution last week, and, in consultation with the Visiting Committee, inquired into the arrangements of the institute and the medical care and treatment of the inmates. I hope to have their report shortly. I also hope to visit the institution very shortly with my hon. and gallant Friend the Parliamentary Under-Secretary. I will then consider whether any further inquiry is necessary.Mr. SHORTT
: I do not know that it is special.Mr. SHORTT
: The Department has not been abolished and no reduction has yet taken place. The question of possible reductions in expenditure is being considered.Mr. SHORTT
primâa facie: I have made inquiries and I find that the Staffordshire police, having been asked by the Ministry of Transport to take steps to stop the improper use of general identification marks, have prosecuted in a number of cases where there was primâa facieMr. SHORTT
: I said "to take steps."Mr. SHORTT
225I knew that the Home Office was informing representatives of the Press that the appointment had not then been settled, and I did not inform you of this communication to the Press, any more than I do other communications made every day to Press representatives calling at New Scotland Yard."It became necessary, therefore, that some communication should be made to the numerous representatives of the Press who call many times a day at my office, and I authorised my private sceretary to issue a statement to the effect that Sir Joseph Byrne, pending confirmation of his appointment, was acting on my behalf in the Special Branch."The circumstances in which the Press communiqué was issued on Tuesday last were that the fact that Sir Joseph Byrne was in the office had become known to the Press on Tuesday morning, and it was being stated that he had actually been appointed as Assistant Commissioner.224"The Regulation, like all other Office Regulations, was issued for the information of the office only; and I am unable to say by what process this confidential document reached the Press."I therefore kept all reference to the post of Assistant Commissioner out of the draft Regulation." ii. The appointment had been approved by His Majesty. i. Sir Joseph Byrne had accepted your offer.
 ii. The appointment had been approved by His Majesty. i. Sir Joseph Byrne had accepted your offer.You will recollect that when I asked you about the publication in Police Orders of the appointment of Sir Joseph Byrne as Assistant Commissioner you told me that nothing must appear in Police Orders until:
 ii. The appointment had been approved by His Majesty. i. Sir Joseph Byrne had accepted your offer.
 ii. The appointment had been approved by His Majesty. i. Sir Joseph Byrne had accepted your offer.I asked him to deal, on my behalf, with matters of routine, and my idea was that by doing so, he would learn the duties and be able by the let December to assume responsibility under me. It was necessary that some official communication should be made to the office as to his position, and accordingly the Office Regulation in question was issued."It was necessary that the work of the branch should be continued without any hiatus. At my request Sir Joseph Byrne came to the office, and, accompanied by one of my officials, went over to the special branch in order to get some insight into the work of the department of which, if he accepted your offer, he would assume control from 1st December.223The appointment of Assistant Commissioner had been offered to Sir Joseph Byrne, but, pending a decision being arrived at regarding his pay and pension, he had not accepted.""The circumstances in which this Regulation No. 31 was issued were as follows:"I cannot possibly say.""How came it about that General Byrne went to Sir Basil Thomson's office at the beginning of this week, and that those who called to see Sir Basil Thomson were told that General Byrne, his successor, was in his office, and was functioning?"222"In collecting information and preparing reports for the Government on the action of Bolsheviks. Sinn Feiners, etc., Sir Basil Thomson will act independently in his capacity of Director of intelligence. His intelligence officers (other than members of the Metropolitan police) and his staff of clerks and typists will he appointed by him, and will be under his own control. The Metropolitan police officers of the special branch will be under Sir Basil Thomson to the same extent as police officers in other branches are under the control of the other Assistant Commissioners. The supreme disciplinary authority is the Commissioner."In order to keep the Commissioner informed on these points, and to consult him on matters requiring his consent, Sir Basil Thomson will call and see the Commissioner every Wednesday morning at 11.30 (or such other time as may be arranged). He will supply the Commissioner with early copies of his weekly reports, and will supply him at once with any information of importance which comes to his knowledge affecting the work of the Metropolitan police. The information supplied verbally will be supplemented by full written communications when the circumstances so demand."(3) The Commissioner should be kept generally informed of the distribution and the work of the special branch officers outside the Metropolitan police district.(2) The Commissioner should be kept fully informed of what the officers of the special branch are doing in the Metropolitan area.(1) The steps taken by Sir Basil Thomson for the protection of the King, the Royal Family, Ministers, and other public persons should have the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner should be fully informed beforehand (except in an emergency) of any change in the direction either of additional protection or of the relaxation of the precautions.
(3) The Commissioner should be kept generally informed of the distribution and the work of the special branch officers outside the Metropolitan police district.(2) The Commissioner should be kept fully informed of what the officers of the special branch are doing in the Metropolitan area.(1) The steps taken by Sir Basil Thomson for the protection of the King, the Royal Family, Ministers, and other public persons should have the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner should be fully informed beforehand (except in an emergency) of any change in the direction either of additional protection or of the relaxation of the precautions."approve the following arrangements:
(3) The Commissioner should be kept generally informed of the distribution and the work of the special branch officers outside the Metropolitan police district.(2) The Commissioner should be kept fully informed of what the officers of the special branch are doing in the Metropolitan area.(1) The steps taken by Sir Basil Thomson for the protection of the King, the Royal Family, Ministers, and other public persons should have the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner should be fully informed beforehand (except in an emergency) of any change in the direction either of additional protection or of the relaxation of the precautions.
(3) The Commissioner should be kept generally informed of the distribution and the work of the special branch officers outside the Metropolitan police district.(2) The Commissioner should be kept fully informed of what the officers of the special branch are doing in the Metropolitan area.(1) The steps taken by Sir Basil Thomson for the protection of the King, the Royal Family, Ministers, and other public persons should have the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner should be fully informed beforehand (except in an emergency) of any change in the direction either of additional protection or of the relaxation of the precautions."As the result of a discussion with the Commissioner and Sir Basil Thomson in the Home Office on 8th November, 1920, I "—221: Yes; with your permission, Sir, and the permission of the House, I should like to make a statement on one or two small points that have arisen with regard to the appointment of Sir Joseph Byrne and the resignation of Sir Basil Thomson. First of all, dealing with the statement made in the Press by Sir Basil Thomson, there are two points, and so far as I can see only two points to which I need refer. The first is that Sir Basil Thomson has said that on the appointment of General Horwood as Chief Commissioner he at once wrote to me and explained that, having regard to his opinion of General Horwood, he would feel obliged to resign if General Horwood was appointed. I may say that such a statement was made by him to me, but having regard to the nature of it, and that it came from an Assistant Commissioner, and that it dealt with matters on which I had no doubt Sir Basil Thomson felt very strongly, and perhaps with some pain, I felt that I ought to treat it as absolutely confidential, and had Sir Basil Thomson not mentioned it I should not have done so. The other point is one with regard to the position of Sir Basil Thomson himself. He claims that he always was independent. May I remind the House that there has never been any question about Sir Basil Thomson's independence in so far as the collection of information was concerned, foreign and home, and his reports to the Cabinet? But there his independence ended. Undoubtedly, however, Sir Basil Thomson has persuaded himself that that state of independence extended to the whole of his work. Sir Basil Thomson himself confirms me in that statement.225I knew that the Home Office was informing representatives of the Press that the appointment had not then been settled, and I did not inform you of this communication to the Press, any more than I do other communications made every day to Press representatives calling at New Scotland Yard."It became necessary, therefore, that some communication should be made to the numerous representatives of the Press who call many times a day at my office, and I authorised my private sceretary to issue a statement to the effect that Sir Joseph Byrne, pending confirmation of his appointment, was acting on my behalf in the Special Branch."The circumstances in which the Press communiqué was issued on Tuesday last were that the fact that Sir Joseph Byrne was in the office had become known to the Press on Tuesday morning, and it was being stated that he had actually been appointed as Assistant Commissioner.224"The Regulation, like all other Office Regulations, was issued for the information of the office only; and I am unable to say by what process this confidential document reached the Press."I therefore kept all reference to the post of Assistant Commissioner out of the draft Regulation." ii. The appointment had been approved by His Majesty. i. Sir Joseph Byrne had accepted your offer.
 ii. The appointment had been approved by His Majesty. i. Sir Joseph Byrne had accepted your offer.You will recollect that when I asked you about the publication in Police Orders of the appointment of Sir Joseph Byrne as Assistant Commissioner you told me that nothing must appear in Police Orders until:
 ii. The appointment had been approved by His Majesty. i. Sir Joseph Byrne had accepted your offer.
 ii. The appointment had been approved by His Majesty. i. Sir Joseph Byrne had accepted your offer.I asked him to deal, on my behalf, with matters of routine, and my idea was that by doing so, he would learn the duties and be able by the let December to assume responsibility under me. It was necessary that some official communication should be made to the office as to his position, and accordingly the Office Regulation in question was issued."It was necessary that the work of the branch should be continued without any hiatus. At my request Sir Joseph Byrne came to the office, and, accompanied by one of my officials, went over to the special branch in order to get some insight into the work of the department of which, if he accepted your offer, he would assume control from 1st December.223The appointment of Assistant Commissioner had been offered to Sir Joseph Byrne, but, pending a decision being arrived at regarding his pay and pension, he had not accepted.""The circumstances in which this Regulation No. 31 was issued were as follows:"I cannot possibly say.""How came it about that General Byrne went to Sir Basil Thomson's office at the beginning of this week, and that those who called to see Sir Basil Thomson were told that General Byrne, his successor, was in his office, and was functioning?"222"In collecting information and preparing reports for the Government on the action of Bolsheviks. Sinn Feiners, etc., Sir Basil Thomson will act independently in his capacity of Director of intelligence. His intelligence officers (other than members of the Metropolitan police) and his staff of clerks and typists will he appointed by him, and will be under his own control. The Metropolitan police officers of the special branch will be under Sir Basil Thomson to the same extent as police officers in other branches are under the control of the other Assistant Commissioners. The supreme disciplinary authority is the Commissioner."In order to keep the Commissioner informed on these points, and to consult him on matters requiring his consent, Sir Basil Thomson will call and see the Commissioner every Wednesday morning at 11.30 (or such other time as may be arranged). He will supply the Commissioner with early copies of his weekly reports, and will supply him at once with any information of importance which comes to his knowledge affecting the work of the Metropolitan police. The information supplied verbally will be supplemented by full written communications when the circumstances so demand."(3) The Commissioner should be kept generally informed of the distribution and the work of the special branch officers outside the Metropolitan police district.(2) The Commissioner should be kept fully informed of what the officers of the special branch are doing in the Metropolitan area.(1) The steps taken by Sir Basil Thomson for the protection of the King, the Royal Family, Ministers, and other public persons should have the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner should be fully informed beforehand (except in an emergency) of any change in the direction either of additional protection or of the relaxation of the precautions.
(3) The Commissioner should be kept generally informed of the distribution and the work of the special branch officers outside the Metropolitan police district.(2) The Commissioner should be kept fully informed of what the officers of the special branch are doing in the Metropolitan area.(1) The steps taken by Sir Basil Thomson for the protection of the King, the Royal Family, Ministers, and other public persons should have the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner should be fully informed beforehand (except in an emergency) of any change in the direction either of additional protection or of the relaxation of the precautions."approve the following arrangements:
(3) The Commissioner should be kept generally informed of the distribution and the work of the special branch officers outside the Metropolitan police district.(2) The Commissioner should be kept fully informed of what the officers of the special branch are doing in the Metropolitan area.(1) The steps taken by Sir Basil Thomson for the protection of the King, the Royal Family, Ministers, and other public persons should have the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner should be fully informed beforehand (except in an emergency) of any change in the direction either of additional protection or of the relaxation of the precautions.
(3) The Commissioner should be kept generally informed of the distribution and the work of the special branch officers outside the Metropolitan police district.(2) The Commissioner should be kept fully informed of what the officers of the special branch are doing in the Metropolitan area.(1) The steps taken by Sir Basil Thomson for the protection of the King, the Royal Family, Ministers, and other public persons should have the approval of the Commissioner. The Commissioner should be fully informed beforehand (except in an emergency) of any change in the direction either of additional protection or of the relaxation of the precautions."As the result of a discussion with the Commissioner and Sir Basil Thomson in the Home Office on 8th November, 1920, I "—221Mr. SHORTT
: I cannot answer the question of the right hon. Gentleman.Mr. SHORTT
: It is impossible for me to say what impression I gave to the House. I certainly did not intend to leave any impression one way or the other in regard to that matter. The best way is to tell the House exactly what happened. Immediately Questions were over, and I had seen the attitude, and had heard what was said, and attention had been drawn to the answer in the OFFICIAL REPORT, and it had been read, I at once telephoned to Sir Joseph Byrne. I have been in close touch with Sir Joseph for two years. I told him that I did not wish to speak to him as Home Secretary at all, but as his personal friend. I said, "You probably will not know what has taken place unless I tell you." I told him exactly what had taken place, and I said, "It is for you to consider whether in face of that you can possibly accept the position." That is exactly what happened. With regard to the other point, I am sure the hon. Member will recollect that in his statement General Horwood said that he wanted Sir Joseph to deal with routine work, and there was no chance of his obtaining any information of a really secret character, or of learning anything that could do harm if he did not accept the position.Mr. SHORTT
: I may have been mistaken as to the month, but as to the broad fact I was perfectly right. Sir Basil Thomson for a time reported in accordance with that arrangement to which he definitely agreed, and then, as he has said himself, he deliberately and definitely stopped.Mr. SHORTT
: I have no means of knowing. The Committee was appointed by the Cabinet. I, of course, had no control over the decisions of the Committee. I had a Memorandum from General Horwood which I at once forwarded to Sir Basil Thomson, and I got a Memorandum from him in return. These two were at the disposal of the Committee if the Committee desired them, but I think by that time the Committee had actually made up their minds. I knew nothing of the Committee's procedure until I got their Report, and the moment I got it I sent to Sir Basil Thomson an extract of the part relating to his work.Mr. SHORTT
: I have made inquiry into this matter, and have ascertained that of the 13 non-service personnel referred to, three are being substituted by ex-service men, four are permanent civil servants, and the remaining six are juniors, engaged on elementary work, whose retention has recently been agreed to by the Departmental Substitution Committee, which includes the ex-service men's representative.Mr. YOUNG
: It is impossible, consistently with the smooth and efficient working of the process of substitution, to give the undertaking to which my hon. Friend refers. He may rest assured that the special claim of disabled men is a matter of considerable concern to the Government.Mr. YOUNG
188: The number of disabled men who are at present under notice of discharge from Government Departments in London is, as far as can be ascertained, 126. This figure does not include those engaged in an industrial or manipulative
188The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Hilton Young)
: I am particularly anxious, in making appointments in my Department, to consider the claims of ex-service men. If there is any feeling that anything prejudicial to their interest has been done I shall be glad to receive a deputation.Mr. MONTAGU
: No. I am surprised to hear that.Mr. MONTAGU
: Mohammed Ali and Shaukat Ali are by birth subjects of the State of Rampur in the United Provinces. All the other accused are described as residents of places in British India. Mr. Gandhi's father was the Diwan of the State of Porebandar in Kathiawar.Mr. MONTAGU
: I have not for some days past received any general review of the position. On the 27th October the Government of India reported that the General Officer Commanding the Madras District was satisfied with the situation, but needed more troops, which were being sent, in order to bring the operations to a close as soon as possible. The last received reports cover the four last days of October, and indicate that the troops and police are actively engaged in locating and capturing the rebels, who are still offering resistance, whenever they are met. In view of the difficulty of the country and the absence of communications, it is obvious that the complete pacification of the district must take time.Mr. MONTAGU
186: I would refer the hon. and gallant Member to the reply given to the hon. Member for Chelsea on 2nd November. I believe it is the case that Mr. Painter was in employment up to the date of his appointment to the India
186Mr. MONTAGU
: No.Mr. MONTAGU
: I think that it would be more courteous if the Noble Lord had given me notice of a question of detail of that kind. I have stated to the House over and over again that there have been the most shocking atrocities committed by these rebels on loyal Hindu fellow subjects.Mr. MONTAGU
: To the best of my recollection every official telegram containing news on the subject of Malabar received in my office has been published, whether they are communications which have been issued in India or are reported by Reuter by the ordinary cable. There have been several telegrams from both sources reporting atrocities by the Moplahs. I cannot say offhand whether I have seen that particular telegram or whether it was an official communiqué.Mr. MONTAGU
: The recent Government of India Secretariat Procedure Committee, while recognising that Indian conditions necessitate official printing on a larger scale than in England, made certain recommendations for economy, which the Government of India have endorsed. Special steps are taken to secure secrecy for confidential documents. The total expenditure on Government presses in India in the current estimates is roughly 75 lakhs, this figure including cost of staff, material, and stores. I would point out that the estimates of the Government of India and the several Provinces are now subjected to close scrutiny by the respective legislatures.Mr. MONTAGU
183: I am not yet in a position to make a statement as to the policy arising out of the recommendations of the Indian Railway Committee. I have asked the Government of India for their general views on the Report, and it will be necessary to take the opinion of the Indian Legislature. I do not think it would be reasonable to impose any definite time limit for consideration but I can assure my hon. and
183Mr. MONTAGU
: I am always at my hon. and gallant Friend's disposal.Mr. MONTAGU
: I am very anxious to do everything in my power to develop the resources of India. If some arrangement of mutual advantage to both countries can be devised I shall he only too delighted to do everything in my power to facilitate it.Mr. MONTAGU
: It is the case that, owing to unfavourable financial conditions of which exchange is only one factor, it has been found necessary in recent years to restrict railway expenditure to a lower amount than might otherwise have been deemed desirable, but orders have been, and are being, placed for machinery, etc. up to the limits of the funds allotted for expenditure on the services concerned.Mr. MONTAGU
: Colonel Aitken is being permitted to retire with effect from 26th May, 1918, namely, the date on which he attained the age of 57, on the maximum pension of his rank, and is being granted the honorary rank of Brigadier-General on retirement.Mr. MONTAGU
: I am not responsible for the wording of the question.Mr. MONTAGU
: This matter has engaged the close attention of the Government of India and local governments. I understand that the only leaflet of this nature that has come to notice has been proscribed under Section 12 of the Press Act. There were no signatures on the leaflet, though a few names were mentioned in it out of a very large numbers who are reported to have signed the "fatwa," extracts of which the leaflet purported to reproduce. The Press at Delhi, which printed the leaflet, has been ordered to give security, but has failed to do so, and has ceased working.Mr. MONTAGU
: I would rather that my hon. and gallant Friend gave me notice. My impression is that a promise was given that the question would be considered when a permanent scale was being arranged. Perhaps my hon. and gallant Friend will give me notice, or I will write him on the subject.Mr. MONTAGU
: A Bill based upon the Committee's recommendation was introduced in the Legislative Assembly on the 15th September.Mr. MONTAGU
: The Government of India are considering the lines on which legislation should be undertaken for the registration and protection of trade unions and are consulting local governments with a view to submitting proposals. Pending receipt of actual proposals for legislation. I feel it would be premature to discuss the tentative conclusions on which the Government of India are cot suiting local governments.Mr. MONTAGU
: I am informed that the Committee has not yet concluded its inquiry.Mr. MONTAGU
: As regards the first part of the question, I am not in a position to add anything to the answer I gave to the hon. and gallant Member for Devizes on the 22nd July last, of which I will send my hon. Friend a copy. The question of the recognition of brevet rank for pension purposes should he addressed to the Secretary of State for War, the rules for the Indian Army following those for the British Army in this respect.The SECRETARY of STATE for INDIA (Mr. Montagu)
"eventually it turned out that for months and months on end he (Sir Basil Thomson) never would go near the Commissioner, or tell the Commissioner certain things. That was making a pitiable spectacle of the Commissioner, and in June of this year, or a little earlier, I began to ask myself whether it was really possible for this to continue.—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 3rd November, 1921; cols. 2054–5, Vol. 147.]: How does the right hon. Gentleman reconcile the statement which he made in the House on Thursday last that
"eventually it turned out that for months and months on end he (Sir Basil Thomson) never would go near the Commissioner, or tell the Commissioner certain things. That was making a pitiable spectacle of the Commissioner, and in June of this year, or a little earlier, I began to ask myself whether it was really possible for this to continue.—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 3rd November, 1921; cols. 2054–5, Vol. 147.]Sir F. BANBURY
 asked the Home Secretary whether he proposes to make any statement with regard to the appointment of Sir Joseph Byrne and the retirement of Sir Basil Thomson?by Private NoticeSir F. BANBURY
: I beg to ask leave—Sir F. BANBURY
: I beg to ask leave to move the Adjournment of the House for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, "the contradictory statements made by the Home Secretary on Sir Joseph Byrne's appointment."Sir F. BANBURY
353"The French and English texts of this Convention shall both be authentic.": As far as I can understand the matter, the Government practically are going to do nothing, fore which I am very glad. I have read this precious document, and the only thing I agree with is Article 18, which says:
353"The French and English texts of this Convention shall both be authentic."Sir F. BANBURY
: The hon. and gallant Gentleman's question states that the circulars had printed on them, "This is a sample of our paper."Mr. KELLAWAY
209: That is the point on which I am still negotiating with the
209Mr. KELLAWAY
: I am aware that post offices have refused to allow circulars to be sent at the special printed paper rate because the circulars had printed upon them "This is a sample of our paper." Under the published Regulations, samples are not admissible at the printed paper rate, and I cannot hold that these patterns, which are described by the senders as samples, are not such, nor can I alter the Regulations to admit samples of paper, but no others. The answer to the first part of the question is, yes, Sir. As these papers are admittedly samples, I cannot agree not to treat them as such.Mr. KELLAWAY
: There has been some misunderstanding. Before the 3rd of October the time of posting at Liverpool for letters sent via Bristol for Certain places beyond, to secure the first morning delivery, was 4 p.m. On the 3rd of October the railway company instituted a train between Crewe and Bristol which appeared to justify a later despatch from Liverpool. The time of posting was therefore extended from 4 p.m. (or 4.30 with late fee) to 5.45 p.m. (or 6.15 with late fee). It was subsequently found that the new train frequently did not keep time and that the connection with the first morning delivery could not be relied upon. The Postmaster of Liverpool thereupon issued a notice to this effect in order that merchants and others might be aware of the risk involved in the use of the supplementary despatch. The attention of the railway companies has been directed to the inconvenience caused by the late running of the train.Mr. KELLAWAY
: I shall be glad to consider that, but I hope my hon. Friend will also consider the point I have put.Mr. KELLAWAY
208: I am considering how far wider publicity can be given to existing air-mail services with a view to increasing public interest in the traffic; hut, as at present advised, I do not think that the issue of a special postage stamp would have the effect desired by the hon. Member. A blue air-mail label, to be affixed to air-mail correspondence, is already issued on application at all head and branch post offices. Letters can be posted
208The POSTMASTER-GENERAL (Mr. Kellaway)
: Does not the hon. Gentleman see that these men saved the ratepayers' and taxpayers' money by serving until they were 75 or 77 years of age, and that he is actually penalising them for doing their duty by giving them less than other teachers who retired at 65 years of age?Mr. MACQUISTEN
35. ad vitam aut culpam, asked the Secretary for Scotland whether the education authority for Scotland has in two of the cases after-mentioned refused, and in the other two cases has indicated that they are about to refuse, to pay the lump sum payable under their superannuation scheme of 1919 to retiring schoolmasters, to Duncan McNaught, J.P., LL.D., Kilmaurs Parish, Ayrshire, Thomas G. Meldrum, Kilmuir Easter, Ross-shire, John Thomson, New Spynie, Elgin, and Thomas Wilson, Roberton, Roxburgh; that these four are the four surviving parochial schoolmasters appointed, ad vitam aut culpam,Mr. MACQUISTEN
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that these four teachers are survivors of the old Scottish system of education, which gained for Scotland a reputation in educational matters that even all subsequent legislation on education has not been able to destroy?Mr. MACQUISTEN
46.  asked the Prime Minister whether the arrangement is concluded and has been approved by the French Government and Germany for the payment in kind of 7,000,000,000 marks reparation to France; what are the terms; and was the British Government consulted?Mr. WISE
: I am opposed to this Motion. I am more particularly opposed to the class of legislation which this Motion foreshadows. The right hon. Gentleman says that if a system is approved by the industry itself—I suppose he means if employers and employés approve of it—it must be the best. But does it necessarily follow that, because employers and employés in an industry agree to a certain formula or certain trade terms and conditions, it must be best for the country as a whole? It may make for the prosperity of the shipowner for the time being, but it may not make for the expansion of the shipping industry as a whole, or for the general development of our trade and commerce. I suggest that it is this class of legislation, this endeavour to regulate hours of labour and conditions of employment by Act of Parliament, that is primarily responsible for a great deal of the unemployment. The hon. Member for Central Cardiff (Mr. Gould) I am sure is sincerely desirous of seeing his men contented on his steamships and his industry prosperous, but I suggest to him that, as they have brought about such a, measure of agreement voluntarily, surely that is the right line, and that we should leave our people freedom of action, and deal only with broad, general principles with Acts of Parliament, and give up the attempt to legislate for every individual in every industry and legislate separately for each industry. We must endeavour to get away from this constant nagging at each industry and this endeavour to prescribe conditions for each industry by Act of Parliament.Mr. G. BALFOUR
18.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether he will inquire into the case of Mr. S. Peters, late No. 3937, private, 1st Northants Regiment, who enlisted in 1893 and, after serving in India, fell sick, and suddenly, whilst on guard, became deaf and dumb; is he aware that this man was discharged with a pension of 7d. per day for 18 months and beyond this has had no pension at all; that he is a married man with five little children dependent on him; and will he take steps to have the proper award of pension, with arrears, paid to Mr. Peters?Captain BOWYER
: The appeal of the mother of the late Private Thomas Wadsworth, Labour Corps, 281399, was heard on the 1st instant by a pensions appeal tribunal sitting at Leeds. After giving the fullest possible consideration to the evidence of the appellant and that contained in the documents, the tribunal came to the conclusion that the appeal mast be disallowed. The fact that the local doctor in the first instance failed to recognise deceased's illness as due to Addison's disease in no way affected the decision. The tribunal were not satisfied upon the evidence that the disease commenced during service. Section 8 of the War Pensions (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1919, provides that the decision of a tribunal shall be final.Colonel GIBBS (Treasurer of the Household)
49.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer to what fund have the German payments of £5,444,000 for coal, £38,704,000 for costs of Army of Occupation, and £4,368,000 for ships been credited; what is the total amount of German reparation payments due to Great Britain under the Treaty of Versailles; when the next German reparation payment is due; and what are the amounts payable to the Allies and Great Britain, respectively?Mr. LAMBERT
: How comes it that all these confidential conversations and documents are made known to certain Members of the House, and what is the use of a confidential Department when practically the whole of the information is available for debate here?Mr. LAMBERT
48.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the Customs duty which is levied on goods from Germany is, in the case of invoices which are expressed in marks, levied on the current exchange value of the mark or on the actual value of the goods?Mr. G. TERRELL
: Does this.not mean that the greater the depreciation of the mark, the smaller the amount of duty which the hon. Gentleman will get on any given article?Mr. TERRELL
: Is it not really a matter of arithmetic?Mr. TERRELL
: I desire to supplement the question which has been put by my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Midlothian (Sir J. Hope). We understand that Scotland's needs are going to be settled by an authority in England. I think that also implies that England's needs should be settled in consultation with a Scottish Member of the Government. If the needs of Scotland are going to be settled by the Minister of Health, we ask for a definite assurance that when the claims of English authorities are considered, as the amount in the Bill is limited, a Scottish representative should sit in judgment on the needs of England. One further small point I desire to put to the Minister, more especially as the Third Reading of the Trade Facilities Bill passed through this House without debate. Could he give any information as to any schemes which have come before him in connection with that Bill? This Vote is to grant certain sums of money to the sellers of credit—to bring the buyer of credit into touch with the seller of credit. These two parties to-day are apart, through the buyer not being able to pay the price demanded by the seller of credit. Could the Minister give us some assurance, from any figures, to show that the scheme outlined by the Government is going to be of any practical advantage? The scheme itself is in the form of a subsidy. I am not enamoured of the subsidy in any shape or form, but it might be advisable in this case. As it is a new principle and the subject has received very little consideration, I hope the Minister will give us some statement on the matter.Sir GODFREY COLLINS
7.  asked the Secretary of State for India if he can now state what form of recompense it has been decided to give to Colonel Aitken, whose conduct in East Africa was vindicated a year ago and who for several years has suffered owing to his not being employed?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: In view of the violence of these crimes, will the right hon. Gentleman consider the advisability, according to precedent, of offering the Moplahs Dominion Home Rule?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
260259: I want to follow up the point raised by the right hon. Member for Platting (Mr. Clynes) in connection with the Circulars which have been issued by the Ministry of Health. It is laid down in the Circulars that there is to be a probationary period of six months, during which local authorities must only pay 75 per cent, of the current rate of wages on relief work. I wish to call attention to the ridiculous position of the local authorities in connection with the application of the principle. There will be men engaged upon work of a similar character to that on which they have been engaged. These men may not have been engaged on roadmaking or on drainage work, but it may be that they have been engaged all their lives in handling a pick and a shovel. Take my own district. There are a large number of miners unemployed. They will be employed on roadmaking and drainage. The roads are badly in need of repair, and there are considerable arrears in that
260259Mr. LAWSON
: I do not know whether there was a note taken of the point I made, which was to the effect that when it lays down a probationary period it applies that to men who have been doing light work. A man who has been handling a pick and shovel on a road or on drainage is able to do the work, and during the War was paid a high rate for it.Mr. LAWSON
: Hope for the best!Mr. GOULD
: And the Board of Trade.Mr. GOULD
: He gets it now.Mr. GOULD
357356: My hon. Friend says we had it all our own way, but before the Conference came into being we were not quite so certain that we could accept all the terms that were laid down. In fact, there were many points of difference. But when we came into the Conference at Genoa, and found that we were face to face with the competition, not only of
357356Mr. GOULD
: Have the other parties to the Convention agreed to accept the recommendation?Mr. GOULD
: Who is going to tell them their business?Mr. GOULD
: From the Labour people's point of view.Mr. GOULD
: I should like to join with the hon. Member for Dumbarton (Sir W. Raeburn), representing, as I do, and speaking, as I believe I can, on behalf of the shipowners in the Bristol Channel area, in accepting and endorsing the terms of the recommendations at the Conference at Genoa.Mr. GOULD
: I shall raise the question on the Adjournment.Mr. HOGGE
: Is the hon. and gallant Gentleman aware that this case has been not only before the ordinary Courts in Scotland, but before the Appeal Court, and that the decision of the judges was solely as to the question that the Crown could do no wrong, and that they, in giving their decision, remarked on the hardship to this man, who fought right through the War, who was one of nine brothers who fought, and that the judges regretted that he had not the access to the law that the ordinary citizen had?Mr. HOGGE
: Could my hon. and gallant Friend tell us how, without trial, he can state definitely to the House that the driver of the vehicle was not to blame?Mr. HOGGE
: Is it actually the case that the same practice obtains in Scotland as in the rest of the country, and is it not rather the fact that in Scotland there can lie no action against the Crown, whereas in England the Treasury defends these cases on behalf of the service, and a case is actionable?Mr. HOGGE
16. ex gratia194V. asked the Secretary of State for War whether his attention has been called to the case of Duncan Gregor Macgregor ex gratia194V.Mr. HOGGE
Sir  asked the Home Secretary whether a person who served during the War in a police force attached to a Government munition factory would be entitled to reckon such service as approved service for pension under Section 10 (iii) of the Police Pensions Act, 1921?J. REMNANT
: In the absence of my hon. Friend the Member for South Shields (Mr. Havelock-Wilson), I wish to correct a statement made by the hon. and gallant Member for Central Hull (Lieut.-Commander Kenworthy). He made reference to the fact that no one represented the fishermen.Mr. SEDDON
: The Seamen and Firemen's Union have a very effective leader of their organisation looking after the welfare of the fishermen in this country.Mr. SEDDON
: Tile right hon. Gentleman has made so much out of what I. said, and has put so many questions to me, that I now venture to interpose to ask him whether he is not using one hardship, of which we are all aware, as an excuse for inflicting another.Mr. CLYNES
: May I suggest to the right hon. Gentleman that he has missed the point of my complaint? I alleged that Parliament formerly had established a rate of pay for public work, and that was an act of public policy. I complain now that a departure has been made from that policy without reference to this. House. This House was the instrument of the previous Act and a change has been made without this House being consulted in any way.Mr. CLYNES
253252251: My right hon. Friend accepts that as the condition. How, then, can he say that he is not violating the terms of that Clause or departing from its principle when he is telling the local authorities, in respect of work over which he exercises control, that they must pay, not the standard rate, but only three-fourths of it—not 1s., if that be the figure, but only 9d0.? I think my right hon. Friend will have to choose his ground. Either he will have to set up some other body of argument or case in support of his policy, or he will have to agree, in face of the facts, that he is departing from the principle and the policy embodied in the terms of the Fair Wage
253252251Mr. CLYNES
250: I want to develop at this stage a point which was brought before the Committee yesterday raising the question of policy and an important point of administration on the part of my right hon. Friend opposite. I did not hear all the Debate yesterday on this subject, and, therefore, I am not certain whether any hon. Member brought to the notice of my right hon. Friend the statement of the Association of Municipal Corporations—a body very much involved in the policy which my right hon. Friend has imposed upon public authorities. Those corporations, through their council, expressed the opinion that the scheme of the Minister of Health for aiding local authorities in finding work for the unemployed, as set out in Circulars 245 and 251, is open to serious objection in respect that it imposes upon local authorities the condition that the rate of wages for unskilled labour directly employed must, for a probationary period of six months, be appreciably less than the full district rate. The council, it declares, is of the opinion that this condition will place grave difficulties in the way of local authorities desiring to assist the unemployed; and the council presses for its withdrawal, so as to restore to local authorities their freedom of action. Furthermore, in these decisions of the council, there is the clear indication that in their judgment this condition will lead to very serious friction as between bodies of workmen in different localities and the local authorities. It is proper for them to point out that those local authorities have not only stood in the position of being, but have been asked to place themselves in the position of being, model employers, and, by their conduct of affairs in regard to labour conditions and wages, set examples to other employers of labour of a like kind, though existing in the capacity of private traders.250Mr. CLYNES
: The. Report stage of this Vote affords an opportunity to return to a matter which I think yesterday was left in a somewhat incomplete state. It is in regard to the instructions to local authorities to limit their wage payment to 75 per cent. of the current wage.Mr. CLYNES
: I understand then that the point I wish to raise in regard to the instruction of the local authorities to limit their wage payments to 75 per cent. cannot come on this Vote.Mr. CLYNES
58.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury whether he is aware that, in Block C of the Disposal Board, 25 ex-service men and a war widow have received notice of dismissal, while 13 men and women without war service are being retained; and will he inquire into the matter?Mr. HOPKINS
: They are already employed by the Army in one capacity. Why should they compete with civilians outside their military duties?Mr. MILLS
: Is the hon. and gallant Gentleman not aware that many of these men are compelled to draw unemployment pay from the State because things like this are happening?Mr. MILLS
: The reply to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. The decision of the Government on the subject was reached in January last, and was intimated by notice in the Press on the 13th of that month. With regard to the remainder of the question, my right hon. Friend is not aware that the position is as stated by my hon. and gallant Friend, and he cannot- undertake that the decision will be suspended?Mr. PRATT (Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Health, Scotland)
: That is just what I have endeavoured to say.Mr. PRATT
: No, they will not be deprived of the benefits entirely. They will certainly lose their advantages under the Regulations as drawn on 1st March, but they can still tender an application.Mr. PRATT
: I understand that the Committee have not finished hearing evidence, and I cannot yet state when the report is likely to be completed.Mr. PRATT
b: My right hon. Friend is aware that some uncertainty exists, although Section 3 of the Corn Production Act, 1917, contains specific provisions as to the persons entitled to receive the payment referred to in cases where there has been a change of tenancy. The payment is made solely in respect of the crop of 1921. As regards the last part of the question, my right hon. Friend can only refer my hon. and gallant Friend to the statutory direction as regards assessment of compensation contained in Sub-section (1) (bMr. PRATT
: I have no doubt that was in the mind of the Department when this was refused.Mr. PRATT
: I am fully aware that Mr. Duncan McNaught is one of the greatest authorities on Burns in Scotland.Mr. PRATT
205: The facts are substantially as stated in my hon. Friend's question. The refusal, however, in the two cases to which reference is made was not based solely on the ground that is indicated, but took cognisance also of the discretionary powers vested in the Department by Article 20 of the Superannuation Scheme. It did not appear to the Department to be either necessary or expedient to award benefits under that scheme to teachers who, after
205Mr. PRATT
: Yes, Sir. I imagine that as soon as the House grants this money, steps will be taken to set up the Committee.Mr. PRATT
257: I can only speak on this occasion for Scotland. The note appended to the Estimate before the House states that the sum will be allocated to meet expenditure under the direction of the competent Government Departments. Where the Scottish Department is charged with the administration of a particular subject, that Department will be responsible for the administration of the moneys provided in this Estimate so far as Scotland is concerned. Forestry is administered by the Forestry Commission, whose operations extend from Scotland as well as to England and Wales. The grants for roads are given by the Ministry of Transport, to which the same statement applies. Moneys for land improvement and drainage in Scotland will be administered by the Scottish Board of Agriculture. With regard to the Poor Law authorities, there is no intention that the Secretary for Scotland and the Scottish Board of Health should be ousted in any way whatever.257Mr. PRATT
: I am afraid I cannot answer that question.Mr. PRATT
: It may be convenient if I reply to the points which have been raised in regard to the method of allocation and administration of the monies provided in this Estimate so far as Scotland is concerned. My right hon. Friend the Minister of Health stated yesterday that the total Vote will be accounted for generally by the Ministry of Health, but the allocation of the total sum among the various purposes for which it is to be available will be made by the Cabinet acting through the Cabinet Unemployment Committee and the Treasury. The Secretary for Scotland is, of course, a member of the Cabinet Unemployment Committee, and the interests of Scotland in this matter of the relief of unemployment will be safe in his capable hands. In regard to the Treasury, Scotland has the good fortune to have in the Chancellor one who also will see that the just claims of Scotland are not overlooked.Mr. PRATT (Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Health, Scotland)
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that every year he is spending about £100,000 on train fares and convenience money, and that he could build 100 houses every year for the same sum? Why not take the long view and get to work?Mr. WALLACE
50  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, in view of the heavy annual expenditure on railway fares and convenience money for Rosyth workers who cannot find housing accommodation in the vicinity of the dockyard, he will consider favourably a grant from the Treasury for the purpose of building a specified number of houses in Rosyth next year?Mr. J. WALLACE
: Then it is hardly a matter for a question.Mr. SPEAKER
: Mr. Lambert.Mr. SPEAKER
: It is not the occasion for a Debate, but the hon. and gallant Member is entitled to put a further question.Mr. SPEAKER
: Next Session would be the time to ask that question.Mr. SPEAKER
: Judging from the attitude of the House at the moment, and from communications that I have received, it is clear that there are two opinions on this matter. The proper procedure, then, will be for the hon. and gallant Member to raise the question on the Houses of Parliament Vote when it comes up next Session. There will then be an opportunity of obtaining an expression of the opinion of the House. Without that I am sure neither the First Commissioner nor myself would be prepared to take action. I think the hon. and gallant Member had better follow the course I suggest.Mr. SPEAKER
: The right hon. Gentleman is not responsible for the public Press.Mr. SPEAKER
: These bits of information had better be given outside.Mr. SPEAKER
: Notice must be given of that question.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. and gallant Gentleman is now debating the question.Mr. SPEAKER
: That is the question already put by the hon. Member.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. and gallant Member had better put down that question.Mr. SPEAKER
: That does not arise out of the question.Mr. SPEAKER
: That is not a point of Order.Mr. SPEAKER
: Yes, I understand from the Minister of Labour that the 75 per cent. refers to the Vote for £5,500,000, which comes next.Mr. SPEAKER
: The proper procedure is for the Member to state to the House what his claim is on the point of privilege, and then the House will always hear the hon. Member of whose conduct com, plaint is made immediately following.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member for West Rhondda will now withdraw from the House while it continues its deliberations on the matter.Mr. SPEAKER
: I am sorry, but I cannot accept this Motion. It is not definite, and, as to the rest of it, it is the same matter on which we had a Debate last Thursday.Mr. SPEAKER
: That does not arise here. We are now dealing only with the question of authorising the State contribution. The terms of the Bill have been accepted as far as this House is concerned, and we dealt with the Lords Amendments last night.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. and gallant Member has been absent from the Debates of the House during the past week, but he cannot now make up for that absence.Mr. SPEAKER
: The question of the relative contributions of the Government, of employers, and of workers, as also the conditions under which the grants are to be given, have already been settled by the House in the Bill which has received a Third Heading, and, therefore, cannot now be raised. The only question we have to decide is whether or not we shall agree to the payment of the Government contribution.Mr. SPEAKER
248: No. This Motion deals only with grants to unemployed workers' dependants under the Unemployed
248Mr. SPEAKER
"the policy of His Majesty's Government respecting the Draft Conventions and Recommendations adopted.": I cannot answer that question. There may be other opportunities. The only thing I have to deal with is the scope of the present Resolution, which turns on the meaning of the words
"the policy of His Majesty's Government respecting the Draft Conventions and Recommendations adopted."Mr. SPEAKER
: That really raises a point of Order. I have been considering whether on this Motion it would be open to enter into details stated, but not accepted definitely at the Conference. I have looked carefully through the Conventions and the recommendations on particular matters now before the House. I am clearly of opinion that the form of the Motion does not entitle hon. Members to discuss the matters which were not accepted. The Motion simply asks the House to approve the policy of the Government respecting the conventions and recommendations adopted. It is the policy announced to-night by the Minister as to the attitude to be taken on these conventions and recommendations, but it does not seem in any way to include any matters that may have been discussed, though not recommended by the Conference.Mr. SPEAKER
202: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether it is a fact, that the followers of the hon. Member for South Kensington (Sir W. Davison) a short
202Mr. DEVLIN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman tell us what is the British Empire Union?Mr. DEVLIN
: I think that is an argument, not a question.Sir R. SANDERS
: As the Noble Lord is aware, the Navy, Army and Air Force institutes provide the troops in Iraq and elsewhere with the institute amenities which are essential to their well-being. To enable the same amenities to be provided throughout Iraq as are provided at home and in other theatres, Navy, Army and Air Force institute stores are admitted free of duty on the condition that sales in institutes are restricted to members of the actual garrison. The conditions of sales in Army institutes and of trading carried out by local firms are so dissimilar as to render comparison impossible. The reply to the latter part of the Noble Lord's question is in the negative.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for WAR (Lieut.-Colonel Sir R. Sanders)
: I do not think it is a clear case.Sir R. SANDERS
: Is it a fact that a Committee of Inquiry was appointed, that at it General Horwood made several inaccurate statements about Sir Basil Thomson's Department without Sir Basil's knowledge, and does he regard that as the loyal act of a chief to a very distinguished colleague?Lieut.-Colonel Sir S. HOARE
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that many have been summoned, and that the cost of the summons has been added to the Income Tax? That is the position.Mr. GRUNDY
57.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury whether his attention has been drawn to the large number of people who are out of employment and are being summoned for the non-payment of Income Tax; and whether, in view of the great distress that exists throughout the country and the inability to pay the tax through unemployment, he will issue instructions that every latitude be given before summonses are issued, and so prevent this additional cost to the taxpayer?Mr. GRUNDY
62.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware that at the Stonehaven (Kincardineshire) Employment Exchange men are being compelled to accept employment with farmers for a wage of 6d. an hour or lose their unemployment benefit; that a number of men who refused to take the work have had their benefit stopped; and whether, in view of the fact that 6d. an hour is only about half the standard rate for general labourers, he will have inquiries made into this matter without delay?Mr. KENNEDY
65. 217 asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty, with reference to the question to him of 14th April last regarding the judgment in the action at the instance of the Admiralty and others against the owners of the ss. "Clan Sutherland," and the reply thereto, whether, seeing that no steps were taken by the Admiralty to rebut the charges of looting against the crew of H.M.S. "Bittern," although evidence was available, and in order to satisfy the desire of the relatives of members of the crew of the "Bittern" who lost their lives when the "Bittern" was sunk on 4th April, 1918, who resent the imputation of guilt which attaches to the memory of those men, the Admiralty will
217Mr. KENNEDY
: I am making inquiry, and will communicate the result to my hon. Friend.The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
ad hoeAny balance remaining in the Unemployed Workers' Dependants Fund, after discharging its liabilities under this Act, shall be apportioned equitably, in accordance with directions to be given by the Minister of Labour, between the Unemployment Fund and the several funds out of which benefits under any special schemes are payable.247: I think I can answer the question of my hon. and gallant Friend. He complains that the amount of this Supplementary Estimate is inadequate, but I would remind him, as I did several times in the Debates on the Bill, that it is only one of many endeavours on the part of the Government to find a remedy for the existing state of unemployment. With regard to his specific question, as to what will happen in the event of all the money not being expended, this is what will occur. We shall collect the contributions forthwith from the employers, the workmen and the State. We shall be able to make
ad hoeAny balance remaining in the Unemployed Workers' Dependants Fund, after discharging its liabilities under this Act, shall be apportioned equitably, in accordance with directions to be given by the Minister of Labour, between the Unemployment Fund and the several funds out of which benefits under any special schemes are payable.247Dr. MACNAMARA
: This week.Dr. MACNAMARA
: That arises on the next Vote.The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
348"Where the Convention is of a certain kind, if, for example, it cannot be given effect to, without the expenditure of money or the passing of a Bill, then the ratification does not take place until Parliamentary sanction has first been asked and obtained." —[OFFICIAL REPORT, 27th May. 1921; col. 492; Vol. 142.]"shall be brought before the authority or authorities within whose competence the matter lies, for the enactment of legislation or other action."347"That this House approves the policy of His Majesty's Government respecting the Draft Conventions and Recommendations adopted by the International Labour Conference, held at Genoa in June and July, 1920.": I beg to move,
348"Where the Convention is of a certain kind, if, for example, it cannot be given effect to, without the expenditure of money or the passing of a Bill, then the ratification does not take place until Parliamentary sanction has first been asked and obtained." —[OFFICIAL REPORT, 27th May. 1921; col. 492; Vol. 142.]"shall be brought before the authority or authorities within whose competence the matter lies, for the enactment of legislation or other action."347"That this House approves the policy of His Majesty's Government respecting the Draft Conventions and Recommendations adopted by the International Labour Conference, held at Genoa in June and July, 1920."Dr. MACNAMARA
: The hon. Member for Salford.Dr. MACNAMARA
351350"In view of the declaration in the Treaties of Peace that all industrial communities should endeavour to adopt, so far as their special circumstances will permit, 'an eight-hours' day or a 48 hours' week as the standard to be aimed at where it has not already been obtained,' the International Labour Conference recommends that each member of the International Labour Organisation enact legislation limiting in this direction the hours of work of all
350349"Where the services of a seaman terminate before the date contemplated in the
349: If my hon. and gallant Friend will do me the honour of reading the Resolution, he will see that I am dealing with the Conventions and Recommendations, as I am bound to do under the terms of the Resolution. As regards the three Conventions, we propose to accept them all. The first draft Convention deals with the establishment of a minimum age for the admission of children to employment at sea. With certain exceptions, the Convention takes the minimum age of 14 years. The Convention is covered by the Women, Young Persons, and Children Employment Act, 1920, and it was formally ratified by us on the 5th July last. The second draft Convention provides for the payment of unemployment indemnities to seamen in cases of loss or foundering of their ship. The proposal is that indemnities shall be paid, for the days during which the seaman remains in fact unemployed, at the same rate as the wages payable under his contract, but that the total indemnity to any one seaman may be limited to two months' wages. The Government are prepared to accept that Convention, but they think it better to postpone formal ratification until it has been carried into effect by an Amendment of the existing legislation. The Merchant Shipping Act of 1894 provides:
351350"In view of the declaration in the Treaties of Peace that all industrial communities should endeavour to adopt, so far as their special circumstances will permit, 'an eight-hours' day or a 48 hours' week as the standard to be aimed at where it has not already been obtained,' the International Labour Conference recommends that each member of the International Labour Organisation enact legislation limiting in this direction the hours of work of all
350349"Where the services of a seaman terminate before the date contemplated in the
349Dr. MACNAMARA
: No.Dr. MACNAMARA
360: I never said it was unimportant. What I did was to deal fully and entirely and with the
360Dr. MACNAMARA
: If my hon. Friend will put down an unstarred question I will give him, so far as I have been able to get it, the attitude of the other countries—of these 27 States to which I have referred. I do not know that I have the details as to the fishing industry proposals and the limiting of hours. I do not know how this nation and that nation voted. I thank the House for having listened to me with such patience.Dr. MACNAMARA
: In the meantime things stand as they are. We have accepted it in principle, but we do not ratify it. We shall have to introduce a Merchant Shipping Bill and that we will undertake to do when the pressure of Parliamentary business permits.Dr. MACNAMARA
363"Where the services of a seaman terminate before the date contemplated in the agreement by reason of the wreck or loss of the ship…he shall be entitled to wages
363: My hon. Friend the Member for Central Cardiff is now concerned with the mercantile marine, and I listened with very great interest to his commendation. The hon. and gallant Member for Hull asked me two questions about the Convention dealing with unemployment in the case of the loss or foundering of a ship. I do not think he understood what that was. The proposal of the particular Convention here is that this indemnity shall be paid for the days during which the seaman remains in fact unemployed at the same rate of wages as would have been paid, and that the total indemnity in the case of one seaman may he up to two months. It reads as follows:
363"Where the services of a seaman terminate before the date contemplated in the agreement by reason of the wreck or loss of the ship…he shall be entitled to wages
363Dr. MACNAMARA
: I am very much obliged to the House for the generous reception it has given to the policy I have put forward in respect to the Conventions and Recommendations adopted. The hon. and gallant Member for Finsbury (Lieut.-Colonel Archer-Shee) thinks that this Genoa effort was a ridiculous mouse, but the hon. Member for Central Cardiff (Mr. Gould), who does know something about things on the sea, is not of that opinion at all. I am backing his view of the value of these proceedings.Dr. MACNAMARA
364: I would prefer if I might give an answer to that on an
364Dr. MACNAMARA
31.  asked the Home Secretary whether it has been brought to his notice that the Lunacy Board of Control have been informed of allegations made against the administration of St. Andrew's Mental Hospital, Northampton; and whether, in face of the fact that the general public are at present much exercised about the management of mental hospitals, particularly private ones, he will order a very strict inquiry to be made into the matter?Mr. MYERS
352: I think the Government have this time, at any rate, taken the action they were honourably bound to do under the terms of the Treaty of Versailles. That Treaty definitely laid down certain principles and provided for certain conferences. It also insisted that where at these conferences conventions were arrived at, those conventions should be submitted to the competent authority. Nobody in the British Delegation at Washington dreamt that any attempt would ever be made to bring the Crown into the matter of these conventions. At Washington the Government Delegates themselves, on instructions from the Home Government, definitely voted in favour of one Convention, which up to the present this Government has definitely refused to put before the house of Commons. In my opinion, that is a grave breach of the terms of the Peace Treaty and of an honourable understanding arrived at. The bringing of the Crown into a matter of this kind cannot result in any lustre being added to the Crown, and it is only using the Crown as an excuse to shelter the Government who wanted to break an honourable agreement. On this occasion the conventions have been dealt with strictly in accordance with the terms of the Peace Treaty. I reserve my opinion as to the advisability or otherwise of declining to accept the recommendation with regard to the fishing industry. I do not know a great deal about it, and as I never speak upon any subject that I do not understand, I will leave the matter there.352Mr. T. SHAW
: You had it all your own way!Mr. HARTSHORN
: And in the meantime?Mr. HARTSHORN
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that in the Ogmore Division a number of men have been proceeded against who were out of employment last March and have not resumed work; that the local Revenue officials were fully cognisant of the local circumstances; and will he take steps to prevent a repetition of that kind of thing?Mr. HARTSHORN
63.  asked the President of the Board of Trade the approximate amount of capital engaged in the cotton industry in this country in August, 1914, and at the present time, the price. of American and Egyptian cotton on 30th July, 1914, and 30th July, 1920, and the rate of wages prevailing in the industry on 30th July, 1914, and 30th July, 1920, respectively?Mr. W. GREENWOOD
: I have been very much surprised at the publicity which during the past few days has been given to a statement which I made or am supposed to have made on Sunday evening last. I very much regret that anything I may have said or publicly stated should create such resentment in this House, of which I am proud to be a Member. I do not wish to enter into any quarrel with the Press at all as to the accuracy of the reports of my speech, but I do ask the House to believe me when I say that, whether owing to the falsity of the report or whether owing to the faulty way in which I gave expression to my thoughts, those reports do not accurately convey what was in my mind at the time. Having said that, Mr. Speaker, I desire unhesitatingly to withdraw the statement to which reference has been made, and to offer to this House my sincere and unqualified apology.Mr. W. JOHN
: On a point of Order. I should like to know whether it is in Order for an hon. Member to make a statement with regard to a charge against another hon. Member before that hon. Member has had an opportunity of denying or accepting the charge?Mr. W. THORNE
: When will the first levy be stopped from the wages of the boys and the girls?Mr. W. THORNE
258pro rata: The question that we are discussing is the grant of £5,500.000, and the point is whether we are going to get all or none. There is going to be a fight between the different parts of the Kingdom as to whether they are going to get their fair share or not. I understand from the statement just made by one of the Government's representatives from Scotland, that so far as Scotland is concerned there is a representative upon what is known as the Cabinet Unemployment Committee. I do hope that although there is a representative from Scotland upon that Committee, no undue influence will be used with a view to getting more for Scotland than they are entitled to. Of the sum of £5,500,000 a certain portion is to be given to England, a certain portion to Wales, a certain portion to Ireland and a certain portion to Scotland, and no political influence of any kind should be used as to the way the money is to be allocated. The fairest way would be to grant the money 258pro rataMr. W. THORNE
: Will the Government Whips be put on?Mr. W. THORNE
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that one of the songs sung in these Sunday schools is, "England, arise!"Mr. W. THORNE
192: As already stated in reply to previous ques-
192Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: I can assure my hon. and gallant Friend that a decision will be reached as soon as possible, but it is a very important matter and a very expensive matter, as he realises, and I must ask that time he given to the consideration of it.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: This matter is still under consideration.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: No, I am not. If my hon. Friend will give me notice of any instances I will look into them.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
190: I beg to refer the hon. Member to the answer given to the hon. Member for Houghton-le-Spring on 3rd May last. That answer
190The SECRETARY of STATE for WAR (Sir Laming Worthington-Evans)
: That is a long question to arise out of my answer.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: Is not a part of the Bagdad Railway now a part of the frontier in question, and therefore are not British commercial interests affected?Sir C. OMAN
38.  asked the Secretary for Scotland when a report from Lord Dunedin's Committee on Rating in Scotland may be expected?Colonel Sir A. SPROT
: A number of complaints have been made to the Board of Control as to the dismissal from this institution of certain officers, and in connection with these some general allegations have been made in regard to administration. The Board have informed the complainants that they have no power to intervene between the Committee and their servants, but that they would give careful consideration to any complaints as to the treatment of patients which might be brought before them. The hospital was visited and thoroughly inspected by two commissioners on the 16th and 17th May last, and they reported that the institution continued to be very well maintained, that all the patients were seen and were found to be properly and kindly cared for.The MINISTER of HEALTH (Sir Alfred Mond)
265: Not necessarily emigration, but it, may mean removal to another part of the country. If you have a large number of miners in a district where the mines are closed and are not to be opened again, you cannot keep them indefinitely on the spot. I have to deal this afternoon with the more immediate questions raised by the right hon. Member for Camborne (Mr. Acland) and the hon. Member who has just spoken. My right hon. Friend remarked that some sewerage works might possibly be undertaken in his constituency, and he said he did not think the new proposals of the Government, were as favourable to the local authorities as the arrangement suggested last year. I do not agree with him. I have heard that statement made frequently, and I have never yet agreed with it. After all, on any scheme of sewerage or on any other undertaking, a. considerable amount of material is
265Sir A. MOND
: I sympathise very heartily with the case of extreme distress in Cornwall which has been brought to our notice on more than one occasion and which has been caused by the stoppage of the tin mines in that county. The mind can scarcely imagine a more melancholy spectacle than that of a whole community bearing the highest reputation throughout the world as miners and craftsmen being placed in a state of destitution owing to economic circumstances which they cannot control. Therefore it is not with any want of sympathy that this subject has been approached. The difficulty as in other areas—the coal mining districts offer very much the same spectacle—is as to what is the best method to adopt to relieve the situation. I cannot see that you can profess to have found an answer to this problem by temporary work in the locality, and if the mining industry is never again going to be in the place some better and more prosperous locality will have to be found in which the skilled craft which the miners possess can be exercised.Sir A. MOND
: No one is asking whether he is a married man with a family. Do not let us get off to a point of that kind, which is immaterial to the argument I wish to develop.Sir A. MOND
266: The locality would have some burden to bear in this connection on the poor rates, and the matter should be looked at partly from that point of view. I have just had placed in my hands by my hon. Friend the Member for Penryn and Falmouth (Sir E. Nicholl) a scheme for a light railway. Of course, I cannot offer any opinion on that scheme. If the hon. Member will put it before the Ministry of Transport they will deal with it, considering it on its merits with a view to providing work under the Vote which the House was discussing to-day. If I can do anything in that direction I shall be very glad to do it. I am obliged to return to a subject which was discussed at great length yesterday. The right hon. Member for Platting (Mr. Clynes) was not present during the Debate yesterday, and I may have to repeat some arguments which dealt fully with his case. Although the right hon. Member says he has done me the honour of reading what I said yesterday, apparently I have not been able at all to convey to his mind either the motives or the results of what I said. He referred to what he called a question of purely administrative action by the Ministry of Health in relation to rates of pay on relief works. That shows that he has not taken the trouble to read the circular issued by the Ministry of Health. The Cabinet Committee on Unemployment having considered the matter, the Ministry of Health is issuing instructions. It is not a kind of secret viciousness on my part; it is a deliberate policy of the Government based on very definite reasons. That I endeavoured to explain yesterday. The right hon. Gentleman
266Sir A. MOND
: Many local authorities are carrying out schemes. Surely the right hon. Gentleman does not want to hang up all this work? The House has voted on, and by an enormous majority has supported the decision of the Government. The key of this scheme is the probationary period of six months.Sir A. MOND
: I agree on that point. The House was not sitting, and the work had to be commenced; the local authorities were anxious to proceed with the work.Sir A. MOND
: I do not think that is quite the case. The right hon. Gentleman may put it that way, but I do not consider that a very reasonable way of putting it. So far as I am concerned, I am trying to balance the hardships. Undoubtedly, if you get men to work for less than a normal wage you are inflicting a hardship, and undoubtedly, even where the full rate is being paid, there may still be hardships, but that, surely, is not the reasonable way of looking at it. When the right hon. Gentleman advocates a shorter week, that also is inflicting a hardship. What the right hon. Gentleman says in effect is, "I do not like the way you are inflicting the hardship; if you inflicted it in another way, we should be much more satisfied." That is actually the point he is putting. Why should you ask a man to work three days a week at the full rate, instead of giving him 75 per cent. of the full rate for a whole week? If you adopt the former course, you will in some eases have a job in which the men work for three days in a week and then for three days that job is standing idle. The right hon. Gentleman assumes that there are always enough men to put on to keep the whole job going.Sir A. MOND
267: I hope hon. Members will allow me to proceed with my argument. I was pointing out that this was
267Sir A. MOND
: I said I would consider that point, and I have been considering it this morning and I hope to find a form of words to deal with it. I agree there is great force in the point made by the hon. Member that if a man knows a job and gives a full day's work on it, it is not reasonable to say that he should fulfil a probationary period. I hope we shall meet that in a satisfactory way. Difficulties, however, will arise as to administration. When people are not particularly careful or particular scrupulous it will be difficult to avoid paying everybody on the full rate whether they know the job or not. On general lines, however, I hope we shall be able to meet this. That in itself is an answer to my right hon. Friend the Member for Platting and shows that this is not an attempt, nor was it ever meant as an attempt, either to do away with the Fair Wages Clause or to break down in any way the normal rate of wages. On the contrary contractors working for local authorities are not permitted to give lower wages. It is specially designed to maintain the normal principle of a wages rate for anybody working in a trade, and it is also designed to prevent the employer taking advantage of what we may call an abnormal state of things in which men on work of this character cannot possibly get the normal rate. The whole thing is abnormal. My right hon. Friend will admit that if there was a proposal to work half time when ordinary work would give the most economic results, nobody would advocate it. We have to remember that relief work is abnormal and that the people who are given these jobs are not entitled to the same rate of wages as the people who are working normally. We must make the money go as far as we can. Those are the principles laid down in the Circular, with certain modifications, and we must endeavour to maintain them.Sir A. MOND
269: There are different circumstances. There are many districts in which the case is as I have indicated, and there are many other districts in which it is not. Are you to endeavour to lay down an arbitrary rule that a local authority, under no conditions, is to be
269Sir A. MOND
: I agree that the hon. Member may know unemployment in that part of the world in which he lives.Sir A. MOND
: May I suggest that my hon. Friend does not know everything about unemployment though he may know about it in Silvertown?Sir A. MOND
: Hear, hear!The MINISTER of HEALTH (Sir Alfred Mond)
: The answer is in the negative. I repeat that the service records of "Bittern's" crew were not in any way affected by the allegations which were made at the trial.Commander EYRES-MONSELL (Civil Lord of the Admiralty)
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the efficiency of the Royal dockyards cannot be improved?Sir C. KINLOCH-COOKE
25.  asked the Home Secretary whether he is aware that the Staffordshire police have in recent weeks prosecuted many of the largest motor manufacturers in the country for alleged offences in relation to the use of general identification licences; and whether, having regard to the heavy expense incurred in defending these summonses, many of which have been dismissed, and the unjustifiable waste of money which would be involved by any attempt to comply with the view of the regulations taken by the Staffordshire police, he will give such instructions as will at once stop this interference with a large industry?Mr. MANVILLE
263262261: I intervene with regard to a matter which I have raised already twice in this House which affects certain local authorities, particularly in Cornwall, which have already reached the limit of their power of rating themselves, and, though they are very anxious to be able to do work for themselves and not rely simply on Government help, have come utterly to the end of their resources. I have appealed before with regard to the Bills which were before the House, but what I am about to say does not come under Bills which we have passed. It is a question of what assistance can be given to the local authorities, and therefore it comes under this Estimate. The local industry on which the great bulk of West Cornwall relied, tin mining, is practically dead. It has been killed largely by the high prices of coal on the other side of the Channel, and the people have emigrated from the district, as Cornishmen have always been accustomed to emigrate, as far as they can. But there is a large remnant of labour there which has been
263262261Mr. ACLAND
21.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether, in the granting of the British war medal to troops engaged in the United Kingdom, consideration will be given to the personnel manning anti-aircraft guns and searchlights in Kent, Essex, and London, many of whom were in action against enemy aircraft on more than 50 occasions?Sir H. BRITTAIN
255: I desire to support the view expressed by my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Mid-
255Sir HARRY HOPE
: This man was discharged from the Army early in 1915. It was not till March, 1920, that he applied for a pension on account of varicose veins. The medical board which examined him said that the disability had been aggravated by service, but added, "it is not clear if the present degree of disablement is due to aggravation from service or post-demobilisation." The Ministry had to consider all the relevant facts before granting pension. They rejected the claim, and their rejection has been upheld by the Pensions Appeal Tribunal. whose decision is, by Act of Parliament, declared to be final. I may remind my hon. Friend that entitlement to pension is not solely a medical question, a fact which has been recognised by Parliament in the composite character of the statutory tribunals by whom appeals against rejection are heard and decided.Mr. MACPHERSON
: My hon. Friend could not have heard my answer. I said that the medical board which examined the man said that the disability had been aggravated by service, but added "it is not clear if the present degree of disablement is due to aggravation from service or post-demobilisation."Mr. MACPHERSON
: There is a distinction between assessment of pension and entitlement. It is no part of a medical board's duty to consider the question of entitlement; its duty is to assess.Mr. MACPHERSON
: I cannot.Mr. MACPHERSON
: I cannot say offhand.Mr. MACPHERSON
: Approximately 240 institutions are under the control of, or have been approved by, the Board of Control and the Ministry, and of these more than 60 are private establishments.The MINISTER of PENSIONS (Mr. Macpherson)
24.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether he has yet received any report from the Commission set up in Hong Kong in reference to the system of mui tsai; and, if not, when he expects to receive a report?Major BIRCHALL
44  asked the Minister of Pensions whether the refusal of Appeal Court 23 to grant a pension to Mrs. Wadsworth, of St. Agnes Mount, Leeds, was clue to the failure of the local doctor in the first instance to recognise her son's illness as due to Addison's disease; and whether, as there is evidence to show that the deceased soldier was suffering from this fatal but rare disease on discharge and continuously thereafter until he died, he will have the inquiry reopened?Major BIRCHALL
41.  asked the Postmaster-General if his attention has been drawn to the injury to the interests of the trade of Liverpool, and consequently to employment, in that city, caused by the recent fixing of 4 p.m. as the latest hour for posting letters and circulars to the West of England; and will he alter the hour so that it may at least be possible to convey by mail the closing quotations of the Liverpool corn and other markets and the cable news received during the afternoon?Mr. PENNEFATHER
: Will the right hon. Gentleman use his influence to obtain a later delivery for these important letters and thereby assist trade and employment in the Port of Liverpool?Mr. PENNEFATHER
: Why were no arrests made on either of these occasions?Sir W. DAVISON
: Can the right hon. Gentleman explain then, why a man was recently arrested in Whitehall for seizing a Sinn Fein flag and no one was arrested when the police were called into this hall where a mob was engaged in tearing down and trampling underfoot the Union Jack?Sir W. DAVISON
30. 201 asked the Home Secretary whether his attention has been called to the fact that a ticket meeting under the auspices of the British Empire
201Sir W. DAVISON
: Can the hon. Gentleman say whether this young man was employed in the building industry?Sir W. DAVISON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman consider the advisability of deporting Gandhi to his native State, to see whether that native State can deal with him?Sir W. DAVISON
: I regret that I am not in a position to furnish the information asked for in the first part of the question. The official quotations for middling American cotton and Fully Good Fair Egyptian, Sakellaridis, were, on 30th July, 1914, 6 86d. and 10·10d. per lb. respectively, and on 30th July, 1920, 26'15d. and 67d. per lb. respectively. It is not possible to give statistical information regarding wages in the form suggested in the question, owing to the great variety of rates involved, but I am informed that the increase in wages during the period specified has been estimated at somewhat over 170 per cent.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the BOARD of TRADE (Sir W. Mitchell-Thomson)
: That was entirely my own view, as I said at the beginning of my remarks, and I only wanted to let the right hon. Gentleman know what the Conventions generally were and what they did. All that we are asked to do to-night is to confirm, if the House thinks fit, these Conventions which, in our folly or in our wisdom, we consider to be quite reasonable Conventions or recommendations. I quite agree that the things which were not adopted at Genoa, such as the 48-hour week, are not included in this Motion. Otherwise, I am perfectly satisfied with what was done at Genoa, and that what we are now asked to ratify was good, sensible work.Sir W. RAEBURN
354: I did not intend to intervene in this discussion at all, because I was perfectly satisfied with the statement of the Minister who introduced this Motion, but after the remarks of the right hon. Baronet the Member for the City of London (Sir Banbury) I am bound to say something. One of the questions that the Labour section had to deal with was that of the hours of labour, and particularly the hours of labour on board ship. At Washington nothing was said about the hours of labour on ships, but a suggestion was made that the details of the question should be thrashed out at another Conference. That Conference was held at Genoa, and not only were four representatives from this country there, but representatives from every maritime nation. What folly it would have been on our part had we said we were not going into the Conference at all, or that we would not agree with them. We are the
354Sir W. RAEBURN
: He was not Member for Salford at Genoa; he was Sir Montague Barlow there, and he proposed that in a particular case the 48-hour week should be applied to the officers and firemen, with a 56-hour week for the deck hands?Sir W. RAEBURN
: Why is it necessary for the Staffordshire police to be asked to take special action?Viscount CURZON
: The right hon. Gentleman said "take special action"?Viscount CURZON
33.  asked the Home Secretary whether he will consider providing police constables on point duty with white overalls or oilskins, such as are worn in certain cities in the country?Viscount CURZON
34.  asked the Home Secretary whether the police have carried out any investigation to ascertain who was responsible for the recent encounter between the police and the unemployed in Shaftesbury Avenue and Piccadilly Circus, and as to who was responsible for breaking up the recent meeting of the British Empire Union at the Central Hall; if so, with what result; do their investigations disclose the payment to certain individuals of sums of money to produce these results; and, if so, from what sources, both in these and other cases?Viscount CURZON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that it was publicly stated in the Press that aliens were responsible for the encounters in Shaftesbury Avenue and Piccadilly Circus, and also for what took place in the Central Hall, and has he any evidence to substantiate that?Viscount CURZON
204: Before coming to a final decision in the matter, will the right hon. Gentleman inquire into what
204Viscount CURZON
13.  asked the Secretary of State for India whether the situation in Malabar shows as yet any sign of improvement or otherwise?Captain Viscount CURZON
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the communiqué issued by the district magistrate on the 4th of November stated that a refugee, with ghastly wounds in the neck, had seen 50 Hindus beheaded and their bodies thrown into a well? Has he no information about this?Viscount CURZON
: Is not the right hon. Gentleman's information six days old?Viscount CURZON
: Is not the right hon. Gentleman aware of all the communiqués which are published in the Press, which are issued by the district magistrate? Do not all these things come to his notice in the ordinary course?Viscount CURZON
: May I ask whether the discharge of these 126 disabled ex-service men is one of the first-fruits of the application of the. Anti-waste League?Viscount CURZON
: If you do this in Iraq how can you refuse to do it in England?Viscount WOLMER
: Is not this a clear case of trading being State subsidised at the expense of the taxpayer?Viscount WOLMER
23.  asked the Financial Secretary to the War Office whether he is aware that the Navy, Army, and Air Force institutes import all their stores into Iraq free of duty, and sell them to the troops in competition with British firms which have to pay import duty; if so, whether he will state on what grounds this preferential subsidy is given to the Navy, Army, and Air Force institutes; and whether it is intended to give a similar preferential subsidy to the Navy, Army, and Air Force institutes in England?Viscount WOLMER
: Seeing the present plight of landlords, are not questions of this sort adding insult to injury?Sir J. D. REES
: The answer to both parts of the question is in the affirmative, and I will communicate with the hon. Member as to the date on which I can receive the deputation.The MINISTER of AGRICULTURE (Sir Arthur Boscawen)
30.  asked the Minister of Health when it is proposed to build on the foundations of the 410 houses already laid on the site of the City of London housing scheme at Ilford on amended plans?Mr. T. THOMSON
: Has the right hon. Gentleman considered the waste involved in this, that houses are needed and that men require work?Mr. THOMSON
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether it is a fact that the Charing Cross Hospital is entirely self-supporting by good administration?Rear-Admiral Sir R. HALL
: No such cases have come to my knowledge. I should think it very improbable.Mr. BROWN
40.  asked the Chief Secretary whether ratepayers in Ireland are being summoned by solicitors before republican courts for non-payment of rates; and what steps the Government are taking in the matter?Sir R. HALL
: The Irish Government have received a number of such complaints since the truce, and instructions have been issued to the police directing them to disperse, if necessary by force, any pretended courts which attempt to interfere in any way with the legal rights or personal liberty of any individual or to inflict or enforce penalties of any kind.Mr. BROWN
: Has any action been taken against these people who call people to these illegal courts?Sir R. HALL
: Definite instructions have been given to the police to disperse any such courts they know of.Mr. BROWN
: That was not my question. The question was whether any action has been or will be taken against these people who illegally summon citizens to these courts?Sir R. HALL
: Actions are taken against all persons guilty of illegal actsMr. BROWN
390: I would refer the hon. Member to the replies given by my right
390Mr. BROWN
: I would require notice of that question.Mr. BROWN
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative, and to the second part in the negative. Instructions have since been issued, however, directing the police to take such steps as may be necessary to prevent the holding of any similar court.Mr. BROWN
: I cannot say, without notice, what steps will be taken.Mr. BROWN
: This man was arrested on the 27th May, 1921, on suspicion of being implicated in the murder of Sir Arthur Vicars, but no evidence was obtainable against him, and the police, after careful investigation, finally reported that they were satisfied that he was not concerned in the murder. He was therefore released on the ground that there was no justification for his further detention.Mr. BROWN
: My information is quite to the contrary. The police have made every effort to get evidence and can find no evidence to implicate this man in the murder of Sir Arthur Vicars.Mr. BROWN
: I am very glad to think—Mr. BROWN
: Mr. M'Hugh was, captured by some persons at 9 p.m. on 31st October, and was released at 10 p.m. on 1st November. The answer to the second part of the question is in the negative. Mr. M'Hugh has been interviewed by a police officer to whom he stated that he did not know any of the persons by whom he was kidnapped, or whether they were Sinn Feiners or not.Mr. BROWN
: We are informed that the French Chamber at the request of the Minister of Finance has voted a credit of 6,000,000 francs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the relief of Russia, to enable the French Government to carry out the proposals made by the International Commission at Brussels. As regards the last part of the question, I would remind the hon. and gallant Member that His Majesty's Government have already contributed stores of the present day value of £250,000 to the British Red Cross for the same purpose.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Information has reached His Majesty's Government that an anti-Bolshevik insurrection has broken out in Podolia, but I am not in a position to say how far Petlura may or may not be concerned, nor to what extent it has spread. No report has been received from Rumania, nor have I any information which would point to the movement having originated in that country.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I see no reason why I should do so.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: My attention has been called to the recent riots in Jerusalem. I am glad to say that owing to the prompt and effective action of the local authorities, the riot obtained only trifling dimensions. I regret that I am unable to understand the second part of my hon. Friend's question. It is true that for reasons which have been explained to the House on previous occasions, the Report of the Commission which was appointed to inquire into the riots at Jerusalem during Easter, 1920, has never been published, but full documents dealing with the disturbances in the early days of May, 1921, have been laid before the House within the last, few days. I regret that I cannot see my way to give a day for this discussion.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN (Leader of the House)
: In view of the very wide interpretation given to the letter of the Lord President of the Council, does not the right hon. Gentleman think it desirable that it should be edited like a classic with notes and explanations?Sir J. D. REES
: I am desired by my right hon. Friend to say that he has nothing to add to the very full statements which he made to the House in the course of the present year.Mr. WOOD
398: I agree as to the importance of wireless telephony or telegraphy in the circumstances stated. The International Convention on Aerial Navigation of 1919 provides (in Article 14) for W/T. apparatus being carried by aircraft used in public transport and capable of carrying 10 or more persons "when the methods of employing such apparatus shall have been determined by the International Commission for Air Navigation," a body which will be set up as soon as the Convention itself has been ratified by a majority of the signatory States. When the Convention has
398The SECRETARY of STATE for AIR (Captain Guest)
: Yes, Sir. As I said on Monday last, we have carefully considered the Motion, but it- is not possible for me to find a day for the Motion within the limits of the present sittings of the House, and I am bound to say that in the opinion of His Majesty's Government the present moment is not opportune for such a discussion. I understand there is general agreement to bring the business of the House to a close not later than seven o'clock to-morrow evening. [HON. MEMBERS: "No!"] I have been led to understand that there is general agreement as to the proposal of the Government to bring our business to an end by then. [HON. MEMBERS: "No, no!" and "There is to be another Session of this House!"] I should perhaps add that, even if there were time, in the opinion of His Majesty's Government, the moment is not opportune for such a discussion.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
402: Yes, Sir. Of course I am reluctant to give such an undertaking in regard to the programme of a Session of Parliament which has not begun. I recognise, however, the full force of what my right hon. Friend has
402Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: With regard to the first three parts of the question, I have no information, but inquiry will be made of the British Phosphate Commissioners. The answer to the last part of the question is in the negative.Mr. WOOD
prima facie: No specific proposals for the provision of funds for the maintenance of the aerodynamics Department at the National Physical Laboratory after the close of the current financial year have at present reached the Treasury. Any such proposals in regard to public Estimates for 1922–3 must obviously be considered in view of the general financial position and the need for drastic reductions of public expenditure even in the case of prima facieMr. YOUNG
: I believe that the suggestion contained in the first part of my hon. Friend's question is quite accurate.Mr. YOUNG
: The fact of an article being a toy does not necessarily prevent it from being also a musical instrument. As a matter of fact, however, there is a special exemption in the case of musical instruments when the value does not exceed 1s. I am not aware of any divergence in the practice of Customs officials at different ports in regard to this matter, but if the hon. Member will give me particulars of any specific instance, I will cause inquiry to be made.Mr. YOUNG
73.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury why measure (glass) forms are being held to be liable to key industries duty when they are imported previous to being graduated and engraved, seeing that glass jugs of all sizes, from quarter-pint to four pint imported for graduation, are admitted free of duty; and if he can say why large tumblers are allowed in free of duty whereas the smaller size of tumbler is marked down for duty?Dr. MURRAY
74.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury whether he is aware that in the lists of commodities defining the key industries schedule which were published by the Board of Trade, ordinary chlorate of potash was included and that, in consequence, a key industries duty of 33⅓ per cent. was levied by His Majesty's Customs on consignments of this commodity which arrived in this country early in October, and that the Department have since removed this item from the official lists; whether, seeing that this constitutes an admission that the commodity was wrongly included at first, the duties already paid by the importers on the consignments referred to will be refunded to them; and what action is he taking to publish the fact that although this commodity is supposed to be liable to duty, yet henceforth no duty will be levied?Dr. MURRAY
: I am aware of the fact that the item "potassium chlorate" was shown on the Board of Trade lit without the qualifying letter "R" which should have been prefixed. The error has been corrected by notice in the Board of Trade Journal of the 20th October, and, in any case where duty has been levied on importations of this article which can be shown not to have been of "R" quality, the duty will be refunded. The Commissioners of Customs have issued instructions accordingly.Mr. YOUNG
: I do not think it neces-necessary to make any alteration in the Acts governing this matter. There have in fact been no deficiency advances since 1914.Mr. YOUNG
: I have no official confirmation of the report that the Jugo-Slav forces have reached Alessio. I understand that the emergency meeting of the Council of the League of Nations is to take place in Paris in a few days' time.Mr. HARMSWORTH
407: The request which the hon. Member for the Scotland Division (Mr. O'Connor) has just made is the third request for an extra day which I have been asked to give in the course of these Sittings. With regard to the remainder of the business for which Parliament was summoned, very little remains to be done, namely, the Consolidated Fund Bill and the consideration of Amendments from another place, and our hope is that this business may be concluded to-day and to-morrow by seven o'clock. From inquiries made in different quarters, I gather that that will be possible, and, being possible, that is desired by the Government—I had better not say by everybody, but by a great majority of the
407Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: May I add with reference to the special case raised by my hon. Friend, that as I promised after the Question was raised by him the other day and by my Noble Friend the Member for Horsham (Earl Winterton), I did consult the Foreign Secretary as to whether matters had reached a point at which we might have a discussion in this House. I have been informed that communications are still proceeding, and are not completed between the French Government and our Government. In these circumstances, I do not think we can usefully say anything in a Debate of this kind at the present moment.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I should have thought that the difference between August and November was an obvious one, if I may say so. Parliament, if it had been prorogued in August, would not, in the normal course, have met again until January next. We thought that it was a critical moment and therefore it was desirable to make arrangements for Parliament to meet earlier. We have done that, and we now think the time has come to close this long Session, and, if it be necessary to summon Parliament again, it should be for a new session.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: That is a question which I have already answered. My hon. Friend may think that our reasons are unsatisfactory, but they have satisfied us As regards the question put by the right hon. Member for Platting (Mr. Clynes) I do not think that the Prime Minister would have any special statement to make to the House. I will get into touch with him. There is a function to-night which, by ancient tradition, the Prime Minister always attends, and his utterances on that occasion are always ones to which special attention is directed. I very much doubt whether either to-night or to-morrow in this House the Prime Minister would make any statement of the character suggested.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: As regards the control of Parliament over any arrangement, I have nothing to add to the Prime Minister's statements on many occasions and as late as on Monday week last.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: The Bills that are to come from the House of Lords in elude the Trade Facilities Bill, the Local Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill, and, I think, the National Health (Prolongation of Insurance) Insurance Bill. If the Debate on the Consolidated Fund Bill be finished in sufficient time, and it the Amendments sent down from another place are not of a kind to require prolonged consideration, I hope we may be able to dispose of all or some of them to-night. If not, they will be put down as the first Orders to-morrow. In reply to the other question, I have to say that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposes to open the Debate to-day.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: The hon. Member will have to direct his arguments to show that the British Government either omitted to do something or can do something to meet the evils arising.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: That is rather wide of this Bill or of the finances of the present year.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: I do not think the vote for export credits would come under the Consolidated Fund Bill. A Bill was passed for that purpose.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: I do not think that it had reference to the exports. Anything with which the hon. Gentleman can connect his argument with the Unemployment Grant will be perfectly in order.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
522521520: When we were discussing these Votes previously we were told by each individual Minister that we must regard what he was asking for as merely part of a great programme, and that the other schemes must be taken into account when we were considering his particular Vote. The Minister of Labour said the insurance scheme, though it might be very small, was a part of the great programme and the Minister of Health on the other hand said we must consider the grants to local authorities as part of a great programme. So, with regard to Export Credits. Each one in its turn was described as a part of the greater whole. This evening we have the whole scheme before us and I submit the criticisms made as to each particular scheme apply to the whole programme, namely, that it is totally inadequate to deal with this big national problem. The point I wish to stress is that instead of dealing with it on broad national lines the Government have sought to deal with it in sections and to place upon the localities concerned, burdens which they cannot possibly bear. Take the question of insurance. No one suggests for a moment that the amount allowed by this House is sufficient to keep a man and his wife and family when he is thrown out of work. We were told, however, that the man could get relief work or go to the guardians but if he gets relief
522521520Mr. T. THOMSON
: I was referring to the abnormal charge of unemployment and not to the normal charge in ordinary times.Mr. T. THOMSON
562modus operandi561Militavit non sine gloriâ: My hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Leith (Captain W. Benny of whom I may say, 562modus operandi561Militavit non sine gloriâSir J. D. REES
: In no case?Sir J. D. REES
563: I am much obliged for that information. I must answer one statement made by one hon. Member, who referred to the injustice or impropriety of maintaining a standing Army of the present dimensions. Unless the pay of the standing Army is to be reduced very largely, to which, I am sure, he and his friends would never consent, because high wages is the breath of their nostrils, there can be no such reduction on present lines. If that is done we shall be faced again with the position which happened, and with the terrible consequences which have already been experienced through the fatal economies which were practised and which led to the late War. Had we not been regarded as too weak to join in an European War, the Germans never would have made the War in which we were subsequently involved. That came about through the fatal economies in armaments that were effected at the instance of hon. Members opposite.563Sir J. D. REES
: I will cease from my recital which indeed only included packs of hounds and play parties for schools. It was not extremely long. There are some items in it which I have always felt very keenly were not fair to the tax-payer, and which I have endeavoured, as you know, Mr. Speaker, to get upon the Order Paper, in various ways, without success. I apologise to the Chair for having been out of Order in this respect. I will say one last word about Russia, which is not only in Order but without which no Debate in this House is now in Order. I would appeal to such common sense as may exist and does exist in all quarters of this House utterly to disregard the fetish and the obsession which possesses hon. Members opposite, who have, since Russia changed one benevolent autocrat for two malevolent tyrants, desired nothing so much as to tax further the suffering people of this country in order to relieve the suffering people of Russia.Sir J. D. REES
: About 12,000,000.The SECRETARY for MINES Bridgeman)
: I beg to move, "That the House cloth agree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Mr. YOUNG
: I beg to move, as an Amendment to the Lords Amendment, to leave out the word "under."Mr. YOUNG
: I beg to move "That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said Amendment."Mr. YOUNG
adjourned the House, without Question put, pursuant to the Order of the House of 18th October.It being Half-past Eleven of the Clock: There is only one minute left for me in which to reply. I am not complaining of my hon. and gallant Friend, because, of course, he could not raise the question earlier, but, in the circumstances, what I can say must be brief. My hon. Friend proceeds on the assumption that if Parliament be prorogued, it cannot be summoned before February. That is a false assumption. It can be summoned at any moment, and will be summoned if that be necessary. The second assumption is that it is wise that Parliament should be in continuous Session. In the case of assemblies which have declared themselves in continuous Session, I think history shows that it has generally been an unwise decision, and I cannot believe that any Member of this House really thinks that, in closing this long Session, we are showing either cynicism or disregard for the majesty and authority of Parliament.adjourned the House, without Question put, pursuant to the Order of the House of 18th October.It being Half-past Eleven of the ClockMr. CHAMBERLAIN (Leader of the House)
45 & 49. 374 asked the Prime Minister (1) if he is aware that treatment allowances upon which some 6,000 ex-service men depend are paid strictly upon the condition that these men consent to being confined in lunatic asylums, whereas the allowance is refused in respect of patients being treated, and anxious to be treated, in certain private institutions approved by the Board of Control, but to which the stigma associated with lunatic asylums is not attached; and why the allowance is not paid in the latter class of cases;374Captain LOSEBY
primâ facie: Is there any single institution approved by the Board of Control other than lunatic asylums to which his Department can send ex-service men; and if I can produce tangible evidence to show that lunatic asylums, or some, at any rate, are highly unsuitable for ex-service men, and I succeed in making out a strong primâ facieCaptain LOSEBY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman not aware that his own Department has definitely refused to recognise certain private institutions approved by the Board of Control?Captain LOSEBY
: Does my right hon. Friend know that he has never been asked to do anything of the kind?Captain LOSEBY
 (by Private Notice)asked the Secretary of State for War whether the military organisation which has been at work in France and Flanders since the Armistice, searching for bodies and concentrating scattered graves, has been withdrawn; and, if so, in view of the urgent necessity of allaying public anxiety, he will state whether he is satisfied that their work is completed?Captain THORPE
ententecliché."We are practically back to, if not below, the standard of expenditure for Civil Services purposes before the War."548: If the Financial Secretary thinks that observations made in Debate go to the root of the fall of the credit of this country, I think that he looking in the wrong quarter. It is deeds and not words that affect the credit of our
ententecliché."We are practically back to, if not below, the standard of expenditure for Civil Services purposes before the War."548Captain W. BENN
"no specific case of extravagance has been made out against the administration.""I must say that up to now"—549: I read in the Press that the Chancellor of the Exchequer has decided that if he cannot get £130,000,000 off the Estimates, we are to be bankrupt. That was the expression used by the right hon. Gentleman, and I direct the Financial Secretary's attention to it. There was never a time when the House was so completely flouted in the matter
"no specific case of extravagance has been made out against the administration.""I must say that up to now"—549Captain BENN
: He is a Member of the Government and in a very distinguished position. He said that no specific case of extravagance had been made out. If that is so what is the Super-Axe Committee doing at the castle in Scotland? What is the use of it?Captain BENN
553552551550: If that be so, the old-time challenge for us to point out some item that ought to be reduced still stands. The items are to be discovered by the Committee of supermen who are not members of this House. That seems to be the Government's case. First they declare, that no reduction is possible and then that if a reduction is not made someone must go. That was what the Prime Minister said. I will take a specific case. We have constantly complained in this House about the excessive expenditure on Government staffs, not because it is a cause but because it is a symptom of extravagant policy. When we had our last Debate I referred
553552551550Captain BENN
23.  asked the Minister of Labour whether, in view of the fact that there are 23 counties in Great Britain in which there are no Employment Exchanges at all, and considering that these 23 counties are getting on quite well without Employment Exchanges, and that there is no reason why all other counties should not get on equally well without such Exchanges, he will take steps to have all Employment Exchanges done away with with the least possible delay; and what will he the saving, in establishments, salaries, and cost of buildings that would be effected by this reduction?Sir C. YATE
382: If there is any difference as between the administration of unemployment benefit and the finding of employment for the unemployed, is it
382Sir C. YATE
: Will the machinery of these Departments be extended to men disabled in Ireland?Colonel Sir C. YATE
: Cannot you alter the Regulations?Sir C. YATE
: Why is the allowance not paid to ex-service men other than those in lunatic asylums? Why is any distinction made?Colonel WEDGWOOD
50.  asked the Prime Minister whether any, and, if so, what safeguards are insisted on to prevent private landlords from reaping the benefit of relief works such as roads, reclamation and drainage, parks and playgrounds, tramways, and railroads?Colonel WEDGWOOD
383: Can the Lord St. Davids' Committee not give preference to these schemes that the right hon.
383Colonel WEDGWOOD
51.  asked the Prime Minister whether His Majesty's Government have any information as to Petlura's attack upon the Soviet Government; how far has the attack gone; and has His Majesty's Government any information from Bucharest as to the origination of this latest attack from Rumanian territory?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Does that apply to mandated territories also, and is it applicable to mandated territories of other countries as well as England?Colonel WEDGWOOD
394: Has the hon. Gentleman made any inquiries or will he
394Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Does the hon. Gentleman not think, in view of the relative financial position of this country and France, we show up very badly in comparison?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that Petlura is nothing but a bandit? [HON. MEMBERS: "Order, order!"]Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
46.  asked the Prime Minister what information he has with regard to the credits recently voted in the French Chamber for the relief of the starving population in the famine-stricken areas of Russia; and whether he proposes to invite Parliament to vote credits for this purpose?Lieut-Commander KENWORTHY
: Are we to understand that this great work of the present Secretary of State for the Colonies is being cut down by the right hon. Gentleman, his colleague?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Why was this gentleman, who is, I presume, a civil servant, able to make this public statement? Is he not bound by the same rules as other civil servants?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
560559558557556: I want, if possible, to make one or two constructive suggestions, and I will do so as rapidly as possible. This is practically the last opportunity we shall have of putting forward any scheme for saving us from ruin. I want it to be put on record that I consider the expenditure on these relief schemes is wrong. In 1919, when the Government introduced their housing scheme, I pointed out that I thought they were going on entirely wrong lines, because they were putting
560559558557556Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: What about Ireland?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
:Why?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
2.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs what information he has regarding the military situation in Asia Minor of the Turkish Nationalist forces and the Greek armies; whether His Majesty's Government has offered mediation between the Greek and Turkish Governments; and, if so, with what result?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman not aware that this gentleman could have ascertained the facts inside of five minutes by going to the Finance Branch; and am I to understand from the further remarks of the right hon. Gentleman that he, in any way, seeks to excuse this false statement?Dr. ADDISON
29.  asked the Minister of Health whether, in view of the figures showing that the tender prices for building houses of type A submitted to his predecessor for the month of March were on the average £128 less than the figures for the previous month, he has now considered the statement of the Director-General of Housing, as reported in the Press of 19th July, to the effect that until his predecessor, as Minister, left office, prices were soaring higher and higher almost weekly; and what action he proposes to take in connection with the issue of this statement by an officer of his Department?Dr. ADDISON
: In view of the fact that this gentleman has been in the Department for a considerable time, and has had access to the figures, which show that the reduction in the time of his predecessor was much greater than at any time since, do I understand from that answer that the right hon. Gentleman seeks either to excuse or justify the issue by an officer of his Department of a grossly false statement?Dr. ADDISON
: I think not, but I would ask my hon. and gallant Friend to give me notice of that, because, as he knows, it is a technical point.Mr. WOOD
396: It would not be possible to lay down any such general rule as is suggested in the first part of the question, since the decision whether any particular work shall be executed departmentally or by a con-
396The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for the COLONIES (Mr. Edward Wood)
: Is the £40,000,000 to which the right hon. Gentleman refers to be understood as coming into this country in priority over any further payments made by Germany to any of the Allies?Lieut. - Colonel WILLEY
507506GrerthaendlerGreuhaendlerGreuhaendler,505: An outstanding remark of the hon. Member who has just sat down was that most political problems can be solved by the outpouring of public money, and in connection with the review to which we have just listened of the extremely interesting statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with regard to the financial position of the country, I think a good many of us will be impressed with the fact that the Government have had to live on borrowed money largely as the result of the pressure put upon them from those benches for the expenditure of money on objects which, to use the words of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, were prompted by sympathy and not by expediency. We listened with a great deal of sympathy to the speech of the hon. Member for Dartford (Mr. Mills) because it denoted personal knowledge of facts abroad which are too infrequently the subject of debate in this House. Particularly as far as Russia is concerned, I suppose a large amount of the speechmaking in this House is on theory and not on personal experience, and one is glad to hear the first-hand experience of one who has so recently been there. In regard to the appeal that money should be advanced in the way of credits to Russia, I find myself in special sympathy with the remarks of the last speaker, who made an appeal to the Government that they should in the Recess do their best to bring about more stable conditions in Europe, and in that way attempt to solve the unemployment problem. If any criticism may be made by one outside the House of the Debates which have taken place on this question of unemployment, it is that they have been too domestic, and perhaps indeed parochial. The palliatives that have been discussed are not such as are likely to meet unemployment. It is the wider action in connection with relations internationally to which reference has been made. To revert to the appeal that assistance should be extended to Russia, those of us who, in business and banking circles, are in touch with hard facts come straight away to the question, "What about the risk which is being taken?" and I think that question may be dismissed quickly by saying no one who is defending the public nurse is justified
507506GrerthaendlerGreuhaendlerGreuhaendler,505Lieut.-Colonel WILLEY
: There are two staffs of printers at Woolwich Arsenal, belonging to the Ordnance Factories and the Ordnance Committee respectively. These two staffs are tinder different conditions as regards pay, etc., and the questions connected with their terms of service are somewhat complicated. I am looking into the point raised by the right hon. Member and will communicate with him as soon as possible.Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
399: The instructions that linotype operators must
399Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
: I do not think that arises out of this question.Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
: The provision made in the Estimates of the current year for working this depot was £22,000, and the number of employés provided for was one officer and 66 civilian subordinates. The staff is, however, being reduced and it is not expected that the whole amount provided in the Estimate will in fact be spent. The depot will be disposed of after the end of this financial year.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the WAR OFFICE (Lieut.-Colonel Stanley)
: I do not know. I will make inquiries if my hon. Friend would like me to!Lieut.-Colonel STANLEY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say why this House is never allowed to discuss a question of vast importance like this, whereas in past years the House of Commons has always been given the opportunity of discussing Indian affairs, and especially when there has been a grave state of unrest?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
55.  asked the Prime Minister whether Mr. John M'Hugh, chairman of the Fermanagh county council, who was kidnapped by Sinn Feiners, has been released; and whether any representations have been made to the Sinn Fein delegates with reference to this breach of the truce?Lieut. - Colonel ARCHER - SHEE
: Is my right hon. Friend aware that I have this morning seen the brother of the late Sir Arthur Vicars who was prepared to come forward with the evidence in question?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
392: Is my right hon. Friend aware that not only is
392Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
41.  asked the Chief Secretary if he is aware that Patrick Kennelly, of Snierla Bridge, Duagh, County Kerry, awaiting trial on the charge of being one of the ringleaders in two raids on Kilmorna, in the second of which, on the 14th April, 1921, Sir Arthur Vicars was murdered, was released from Tralee Hospital on the ground of ill-health on the 7th October last; and if he can state why this man has been so released in view of the grave charges against him?Lieut. - Colonel ARCHER - SHEE
: In view of what the right hon. Gentleman has said in reply to another question, that the law was being vindicated, can he say what steps are being taken against these men for illegal action in forming themselves into an illegal court? Are they not going to be summoned, at any rate, for their illegal action?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
42. 391 asked the Chief Secretary whether his attention has been drawn to a report in the Irish Press of 29th October of a description of a public sitting of the
391Lieut. - Colonel ARCHER - SHEE
: May I remind my right hon. Friend that the Prime Minister, on the Adjournment of the House in August, said that, if the negotiations broke down, Parliament would be summoned. Nobody knows whether they are going to break down or not, and, therefore, would it not be better to have an Adjournment and not a Prorogation?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
75.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury whether the Treasury can still use the old Sinking Fund to repay deficiency advances; and, if so, whether he will consider the prohibition of such repayments without a special application to Parliament?Lieut.-Colonel POWNALL
: The hon. Member for Ince (Mr. S. Walsh) was, I think, hardly fair to the Government in regard to the cause of the heavy expenditure on the Defence Force. He sailed, I think, a little bit near the wind as regards the question of order. I do net wish to answer his arguments at any length, but I should like to remind hire of this, that there was a miners' strike just about a year ago which lasted about a month or five weeks. There was no question at that time of calling out the Defence Force.Lieut.-Colonel POWNALL
523: I am sorry, but my hon. Friend made rather a lengthy preamble, and I thought possibly I might be allowed to answer it. I will, however, say a few words in regard to the Chancellor of the Exchequer's speech to-day on our national finances. I am very glad indeed he made the statement that he did make, because I think the public mind was unduly depressed by a speech, which he himself alluded to, which he made some three weeks ago in Scotland, in which he used the rather unfortunate word "deficit." I listened very attentively to-day to what he said in regard to that word "deficit," and, as he admitted, it is not so much a question of a deficit as a question that the £170,000,000 or so which he had hoped in his Budget speech to have had on the right side this year for the redemption of debt will not materialise. That is entirely a different thing from having a deficit, and when the hon. Member for Harrow (Mr. Mosley) tried to stir up our feelings and compared the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in October to that of my hon. Friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury in August, I did not think he could have listened very carefully to what was said by the Chancellor to-day. It is always very delight-
523Lieut.-Colonel POWNALL
524: If the hon. Member who interrupts takes the trouble to do what I have done, he will find that the figures for beer are larger than they were at this time last year, and the Customs and Excise figures are very satisfactory indeed, in view of the fact that in the case of a good many articles, as I know to my personal knowledge, large stocks had accumulated duty paid, and the duty payments in the last nine months have been very much less in consequence. There is another reason why we should not be too pessimistic with regard to the state of lour national finances, and that is this: One sees in the Press that there are large claims for repayments on account of Excess Profits Duty. I see that there was one firm which was repaid about £1,000,000. A great many people do not realise that that £1,000,000 will count as regards income for Income Tax purposes, that 6s. in the £ will have to be paid on the whole of that, and that those shareholders who are fortunate enough to be Supertax payers will also have to pay their Super-tax on the proportion of their dividends which is represented by the repayment of Excess Profits Duty. Therefore, it is not, I think, an unfair argument to say that if £30,000,000 or £40,000,000 have been repaid to firms on account of Excess Profits Duty, at least one-third will come along afterwards in the form of Income Tax-and Super-tax. Furthermore, the Chancellor of the Exchequer stated that next year we should feel the effects of 1921 being a poor year for revenue purposes. I suggest, with some little knowledge of these matters in
524Lieut.-Colonel POWNALL
525: That applies to Schedule D of the Income Tax. A very large proportion of Income Tax has been received, and there is a lag behind of a year more than the Chancellor indicated, and he will not feel the adverse effect of 1921 being a bad year until the Income Tax due on 1st January, 1923. Furthermore, I suggest to my hon. Friend that the scheme which was prepared last year to make one year the basis for Income Tax purposes instead of three years had very much better stand over, not till next year, but some time ahead, until we get more stability in Income Tax matters. If the Chancellor wished to make 1921 as the standard year, it would not be in the interests of the Inland Revenue. It might be in the interests of individual taxpayers, but it is a very important point that that scheme should not be started until trade has had a chance of recovering, and the one year would be a reasonably fair year from the Income Tax point of view, which it would not be in 1922 or 1923.525Lieut.-Colonel POWNALL
: My only reason for mentioning it was that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given some figures with regard to next year, and I thought possibly I might follow him and say that a number of us who are very keen on economic matters hope that, in the few months between now and the presentation of the Budget, everything possible will be done to reduce expenditure in every possible way.Lieut.-Colonel POWNALL
24. 370 asked the Minister of Labour if, in view of the great number of ex-service men now unemployed, he will give all those under notice and/or on the pool at the joint
370Lieut.-Colonel A. POWNALL
: Is it not a fact that in spite of the unsatisfactory conditions associated with the work of writing assistants, numbers of ex-service men would prefer to take these positions rather than remain out of employment, and will the right hon. Gentleman consult the ex-service men's associations on this matter?Mr. RAPER
: I shall be glad to see the right hon. Gentleman and discuss the matter.Mr. RAPER
: Will the hon. and gallant Gentleman consider first offering these posts to the ex-service men who are under notice of dismissal before giving them to women?Mr. RAPER
: May I press my hon. and gallant Friend at least to give these ex-service men an opportunity of taking these posts?Mr. RAPER
: If I can prove to the hon. Gentleman a number of cases where neither the letter nor the spirit of the Lytton Committee's recommendations are being carried out, will he look into them?Mr. RAPER
8.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty what steps are being taken to replace the temporary writing assistants by ex-service men; and if it is the intention of the Lords of the Admiralty to retain women who qualified as writing assistants, to the detriment of ex-service men?Mr. RAPER
70.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury whether there is any question of closing down the aerodynamic Department of the National Physical Laboratory; and, if so, whether he will reconsider this matter, in view of the services rendered by this Department to the Advisory Committee for Aeronautics and to the aviation industry?Mr. RAPER
: Is it not a fact that this Department is the only provision made by the State for the scientific investigation of aerodynamic problems, and is not the cost a minor matter in comparison with the importance of the work which is performed?Mr. RAPER
61.  asked the Secretary of State for Air whether, in view of the danger to aircraft involved by the frequently sudden arrival of fog over various sections of the London-Paris air route, the Air Ministry will take steps to issue a Regulation making it compulsory for all passenger aircraft to be equipped with wireless telephony?Mr. RAPER
: We understand that the Chancellor of the Exchequer is going to make a survey of the finances of the country. Will a general Debate be possible in spite of the restricted character of the Consolidated Fund Bill, and will any topic which affects the finances of the country be in order?Lord R. CECIL
406 (by Private Notice)asked the Prime Minister whether he can say whether it is true that the
406Lord ROBERT CECIL
: What is the amount?Lord ROBERT CECIL
485: The subject-matter of our Debate this evening is, as I understand it, to make suggestions to the Financial Secretary to the Treasury and to criticise Government action—what the Government have done and what they have not done in regard to our finances. The world at present almost universally is suffering because the ability and power of the parties who have traded with us in the past is so small that they cannot take the volume of goods they used to take, hence unemployment is almost universal. We have to consider what has been suggested—whether the Chancellors of the European nations might not meet and perhaps evolve some plan to help the matter. The hon. Member for Ilford said that after weeks and weeks of discussion at the Brussels Conference no solution was found except a further desire to revert to the gold standard. It seems to me that that is impossible. The gold of the world is distributed away from the countries which had it prior to the War into the coffers of the United States. The latest figure I have shows that in the world to-day, in gold currencies, there are £2,000,000,000. Of that £900,000,000 is lying in America, and the other £1,100,000,000 is scattered about in London, Paris, the Argentine, and different countries all over the world. There is the same amount of gold in the world to-day as there was in the year before the War, but before the War that gold represented what we called liquid credits. To day those liquid credits have been turned into what the bankers call "frozen credits." The consequence is that that money is not liquid and we look round the world to see how the life-blood of the world's trade can be brought back into circulation.485Mr. BIGLAND
487486: My hon. Friend asks at what price. That is for a commission of international experts to fix, but if the hon. Member asks me at what price, I should say at the same price as the British Government paid America for the vast amount of silver used in the War and which we sent to India to save our credit and finances there. We paid to America one dollar per ounce for a fabulous amount of silver, and that figure is somewhere about, I should say, 20 ounces of silver to one ounce of gold. The old stabilised position was 15½ ounces of silver to one ounce of gold. For 60 years that maintained an equality of exchange between China and London. If you are going to stabilise the exchanges, for goodness' sake begin with hard metal and stabilise something that will remain stable; and if we say, or if the financiers of the world say, "We will revert to the same basis," then I think 20 to I would be reasonable—20 ounces of silver should be equal to one
487486Mr. BIGLAND
488: I am dealing with the international currencies by which the nations of the world can purchase commodities, and I say this, positively, if silver is reinstated, we will save the sufferings of millons of people for 10 or 15 years; we shall get back, by sound finance, to the position we were in in 1914. By the effect of hard saving for 20 years we can bridge that gap and the sufferings which must of necessity be gone through in this and other countries in this great world-wide matter. I see almost as in a vision, that if this is done the wages of the world will be stabilised and kept up; the worker will get more money. Hon. Members will say that is inflation. It is inflation, but deflation, as the last speaker said, has been carried to an extent almost criminal. Where deflation was attempted, deflation of trade has forced enterprise to such a pitch that unemployment in a vast and cruel way is upon us to-day. These things must be attended to if the trade and commerce of the world is to be revised and this awful suffering owing to unemployment has to be lifted. We are all of the same mind that we must do all we can to lift it. Every effort of the Government is needed. I congratulate the Government heartily on the Bills that have been passed through the House during the past six weeks—the very fact that they said: "We must have £25,000,000 more credit," is a proof that there was not enough money—and we want more money to circulate in the world. We need the 700,000,000 of people who use silver to-day, 400,000,000 in China and 300,000,000 in India, buyers who have the means of purchasing and whom we have blotted entirely out of existence since 1873. The House probably does not remember how easy it was for a man in Lancashire to make a contract for machinery, to be fulfilled in China over five years. He did not think about the price of silver or the
488Mr. BIGLAND
: The rate of interest has been changed.Mr. BIGLAND
: Consols to-day do not receive the rate of interest which they did in 1815.Mr. BIGLAND
: It affects the market value.Mr. BIGLAND
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say in what form it will come in?Mr. NEWBOULD
: Is not the advice given by Ministers to the Crown in favour of Prorogation or in favour of any other act a matter which can be discussed in this House?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: What is going to happen to the hoards of silver?Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
: At what price?Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
: The War Debt soon pulled down our Consols.Mr. SAMUEL
: By doing what?Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
: If the hon. Gentleman will permit me, I should like to point out that after the Napoleonic Wars only Consols existed. After this War we had £6,000,000,000 or £7,000,000,000 other securities. They all tended to depreciate our Consols.Mr. A. M. SAMUEL
13.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty if he is aware that W. J. Whitaker joined the Royal Dockyard, Portsmouth, as skilled labourer in 1905, and remained on till early in 1917; that he joined the Royal Marines and fought in France, was invalided and discharged the service, rejoining the dockyard at once; that this man has now been discharged from the dockyard and his bonus refused him; and, if this refusal is due to his having joined the forces, will he investigate the case and remedy the apparent unfairness of the rule?Major Sir B. FALLE
: Would not this man be in a worse position than if he had been a conscientious objector?Sir B. FALLE
: I must ask for notice of that question.Mr. HARMSWORTH
366: The two armies are facing one another on a line somewhat to the east of Eskishehir and Afium Kara Hissar. There have been no reports of operations since the middle of October. As the House has on several occasions been informed, His Majesty's Government are anxiously awaiting an opportunity of
366The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
: No, I do not remember having seen such a statement.Mr. HARMSWORTH
65.  asked the Financial Secretary to the War Office if he is aware that the linotype operators employed in the Ordnance Committee's printing department at Woolwich Arsenal have been informed that they must sweep out the room in which they work or be discharged if they refuse; that the labourer who formerly did this work has been discharged on the ground of economy; and whether he will take steps to prevent skilled artisans being dismissed through refusing to do labourers' work?Mr. BOWERMAN
66.  asked the Financial Secretary to the War Office if he is aware that the printing staff employed at Woolwich Arsenal have been refused the week's holiday which is granted in every other printing office throughout Great Britain; if he is aware that considerable correspondence has passed upon the subject between the men's representatives and the Department during the past 18 months without satisfactory result; and will he see that the printers in the employ of the Government are placed in the same position in respect to holidays as those employed by contractors?Mr. BOWERMAN
: Is there any reason why military officers should be placed in charge of a printing office and introduce Army methods?Mr. BOWERMAN
16.  asked the Minister of Labour whether he is aware of the great inconvenience caused to the unemployed by the closing of the sub-office at Tideswell; that Tideswell is the centre of a district in which there are many large factories and quarries; and that the nearest Exchange is at Bradwell, which is four miles away over very hilly country; and whether, under the exceptional circumstances, he can re-open the office at Tideswell, as unemployment is increasing, and in the, severe weather the roads are often impassable between Tideswell and Bradwell?Mr. C. WHITE
466: We did not. We voted for the abolition of the Ministry of Munitions and the Ministry of Food; we voted against increased expenditure by the Board of Agriculture, and we voted against the policy of the Government in Russia and in Mesopotamia. Through the whole gamut of the Government policy we voted against their expenditure. They could have made this saving two years ago. It is more difficult now for the reason laid down by Mr. Gladstone and many other economists. Wasteful unnecessary national expenditure creates its own burdens as it goes along. It develops interests which are very difficult to shift, and claims which are made by those who take service under the State, and its stealthy immoral influence is extremely difficult to get rid of. The difficulty I am sure is face to face with my right hon. Friend and those who are working with him, anxious to cut down expenditure. These things could have been done with moderate facility in the early days. Whatever may come of this Committee—and I gladly welcome any reduction of national expenditure, however achieved—yet the setting up of such a body outside this House is not in consonance with the traditions of the House itself. Whatever their recommendations, what hope have we, with our experience of the past, that they will be carried out?466Sir D. MACLEAN
: May I ask what Bills will be taken, after the present Bill, to which the Lords are submitting Amendments to this House? May I also inquire whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer intends to make his statement to-day?Sir D. MACLEAN
: Approximately?Sir D. MACLEAN
"Accordingly I do not look on the current year's position in the gloomy way in which some of my hon. Friends are apt to do.""Not at all. Once it is looked at with knowledge and apprehension the difficulties do not present themselves at all."460: The Chancellor of the Exchequer said his state-
"Accordingly I do not look on the current year's position in the gloomy way in which some of my hon. Friends are apt to do.""Not at all. Once it is looked at with knowledge and apprehension the difficulties do not present themselves at all."460Sir DONALD MACLEAN
465"I invite them to tell me any method, either by the abolition of a service or otherwise, by which I can save what they consider to be an adequate sum. I would be content if they would put their finger on a practicable means of saving £500,000. I would be most grateful."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 16th March, 1920; col. 2073, Vol. 126.]464463462: I do not see how that affects my point. This contingent expenditure was provided for in the surplus of £84,000,000 on ordinary expenditure, which included the coal stoppage, while the surplus of £93,000,000 brought in the question of war agreement contingencies and the cost of the railway agreement. Therefore the right hon. Gentleman's statement does not affect my point in regard to the Supplementary Estimates. One or two satisfactory statements have been made by the Chancellor. Let us see how far they need to be qualified by the probabilities of the future. He said that it is quite remarkable how the Income Tax payments have been made. It is certainly a matter for comment as to the way in which the demands upon the taxpayers have been met by citizens of this country. It shows that there is an amount of steadiness and confidence in the average citizen on which we have reason to congratulate ourselves. At the same time, let us, in examining our actual position, realise how these payments are made. There is scarcely one hon. Gentleman who does not know, either from his own practical experience or his knowledge of how business is at present being conducted, who would not agree with me when I say that the taxes, so far as Income Tax is concerned, have been very largely financed by the banks. Very large payments have been made, and will continue to be made, contingent upon receiving the returns due to the taxpayers from Excess Profits Duty. How is the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Treasury going to meet that situation which cannot, unless there is a very marked revival of trade, be carried on indefinitely?465"I invite them to tell me any method, either by the abolition of a service or otherwise, by which I can save what they consider to be an adequate sum. I would be content if they would put their finger on a practicable means of saving £500,000. I would be most grateful."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 16th March, 1920; col. 2073, Vol. 126.]464463462Sir D. MACLEAN
: Ninety-three million pounds.Sir D. MACLEAN
: It is what you yourself estimated.Sir D. MACLEAN
: Did he say that applied to all industries, or only to certain industries?The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Hilton Young)
547546545544543542541540: Since the speech of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer the Debate has followed a not unprecedented course. The critics of the Government on the Budget have, in regarding the picture, darkened every colour that was dark and obscured those which were bright. Let me not complain of that; it is well that we should realise to the uttermost our difficulties. On this occasion, however, I take comfort from the fact that the effect of gloom was somewhat spoiled by other Members—I would instance the hon. Member for Central Edinburgh (Mr. W. Graham)—who found the picture to their liking and more cheerful than they had expected. What is it that, as I understand, is the central current of criticism against the Government in respect of those observations of my right hon. Friend? It is, I take it, that we should have faced the facts earlier. [HON. MEMBERS: "Hear, hear!"] Never has a barb of criticism fallen more bluntly, in my opinion, upon the armour of the Government. I should have ventured to propose to the House that the financial history of his year was distinguished from that of preceding years, was distinguished from the normal
547546545544543542541540Mr. HILTON YOUNG
: That is so. The powers taken under the Bill are powers only to guarantee the principal and interest of loans, and not to advance money from the Treasury.Mr. YOUNG
: In no case.Mr. YOUNG
: I shall always be extremely glad to have any information.Mr. YOUNG
: The recommendations of Lord Lytton's Committee in regard to the employment of ex-service men in Government Departments are being carried out in letter and spirit. For the reasons for the retention of the non-service temporary staff which continues to be employed, I would refer my hon. Friend to my reply on the 20th October to questions on this subject.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Hilton Young)
532531: If the difficulty of the local authorities be abnormal I am afraid the temptation to spend other people's money would also become abnormal, in fact it would become irresistible. The greater the local demand, and the knowledge that money can be received in a grant from the State would produce an overwhelming temptation to the local authorities to spend with a perfectly free hand regardless of the consequences. They would not have to bear the consequences at the November Election, and the whole responsibility would be thrown on the Government. Until we have a revision in regard to the question of local taxation, I am afraid the ratepayer must bear the consequences of local administration, and if the local authority controls the expenditure then the ratepayer must be prepared to foot the bill.532531Major GRAY
530: As I have ventured twice to criticise the details of the proposals of the Government during the last two or three weeks I will ask the indulgence of the House while I say a few words on their policy generally. Let me first remark that I noticed with interest the declaration made by the hon. Member for Harrow (Mr. Mosley) that an international system of credit would be the most substantial method for setting the wheels of industry going again. I agree; but it seems strange, if that be his policy, that he should condemn the Government for taking what appears to me to be the first and preliminary step in that very direction. If the scheme to which the House has given its approval of national credits by our own Government proves a success—and one may hope it will—surely that will be a step towards the establishment of an international system of guarantees, probably by all the nations subscribing to the League? From that point of view, therefore, the policy of the Government should be free from criticism. I listened also to the suggestion from the hon. Member for Middlesbrough (Mr. Thomson), who urged that the burdens should be thrown to a larger extent upon the national Exchequer to the relief of the local rates. I sympathise—all of us who have had any part in local government must sympathise—with the ratepayer in the continually increasing burden thrown upon him, but I must say that it has always seemed to me, in a study of this question, that if the ratepayer is to be relieved, and the charge thrown upon the national Exchequer, then the control of the expenditure must be centralised too. You cannot possibly have local adminis-
530Major GRAY
in extremis535534533: I am sorry I cannot press that point. I was not proposing to pursue it at any length; I merely wanted to suggest that, while one doctrine had been pressed to an absurd extreme, the other doctrine, as to the cause of unemployment, is equally unsub-
in extremis535534533Major GRAY
: This is a recurrent disease in the body social, and ought not therefore the Government to be prepared with measures either to prevent its arrival or to minimise its effects? It should be prepared to apply such measures automatically, so as to alleviate the disease at once. I do not think that this problem ought to be trfled with year after year, decade after decade. I am old enough to recollect some of the periods of bitter depression in the years gone by and the feeble efforts made by the Governments of those days to deal with the problem. I cannot bring myself to believe that the remedies now being applied are sufficiently strong to meet so great an evil, but I hope that when this Debate closes and the House breaks up and our doors are shut that the doors of the Government offices will not be closed to a consideration of this problem. They must face the future with a firm determination to do all that is humanly possible to prevent a recurrence of such a terrible disaster. If it cannot be prevented, and in the nature of things there must be these fluctuations in trade, then there should be well organised and well ordered schemes already in existence which could be applied at once in order that the great distress through which we are now passing may not be repeated. If this be a real lesson, not merely to this Government but to all Governments, and to all who are responsible for the care of State and for the well-being of our people from whatever quarter their leaders may be chosen; if the present period of distress shall teach the lesson that means must be found for dealing with the trouble immediately it arises, then the misery through which we are now passing may eventually prove a blessing in disguise.Major GRAY
72.  asked the Financial Secretary to the Treasury whether he is aware that in some ports toy tin trumpets and toy pianos costing 1s. 6d. each are being detained as liable for duty as musical instruments, whilst in other ports they are reckoned as toys and allowed to pass through; and can he give instructions to the examining officers that all toys, whether they omit sounds or not, shall be treated as toys and not as instruments of music?Mr. BRIANT
: Before the right hon. Gentleman leaves the subject of Miscellaneous Receipts, may I ask whether the Government are justified in taking the sale of surplus stores as revenue?Sir FREDERICK BANBURY
quid pro quo.480: Perhaps the best way I can argue that point is by leaving Poland alone, and mentioning a suggestion that we should care-fully consider the stablisation of the exchange, which, I think, would help us in unemployment here, and the only method one could consider in this most difficult subject is the possibility of a new unit. Gold was the old standard. Gold only varied a farthing or a half-penny in pre-War days. To-day that stability has gone, and, until you get some unit which will give you the stability, it
quid pro quo.480Mr. WISE
479478: The essence of the unemployment problem is to endeavour to get as strong a financial position as possible. The problems before us are indeed great. In fact, I think practically every country in the world is in some difficulty with regard to finance in one way or another. In September, 1920, a conference took place at Brussels, at which 35 nations assembled, to discuss the financial position. The only suggestion that was forthcoming was the Ter Meulen credit scheme, which up till now is not working, and appears to me to be very difficult to organise throughout the world. After a great war you are bound to have a huge inflation, and when you realise that we were spending up to £7,000,000 a day, that inflation is greater than we appreciate That all affects the unemployment in the country. We are indeed a peculiar country, for we cannot feed ourselves, and we are dependent, except for coal, on the raw material coming to this country, which we can only pay for by manufacturing goods and exporting those goods. In pre-War days the total export of manufactured goods throughout the world was £1,500,000,000, of which we and Germany exported manufactured goods to the extent of £700,000,000. If you look at the figures of our imports and exports on a tonnage basis, you will find that the imports into this country in 1913 were 56,000,000 tons, and in 1920 they were only 45,000,000 tons, showing a decrease in imports of 11,000,000 tons, but our exports were even worse. In 1913 we exported 91,000,000 tons and in 1920 only 35,000,000 tons. There is the basis to show where the unemployment exists, and until we increase our exports by the trade of the country we cannot possibly get this ques-
479478Mr. WISE
529528527526: It is a truism to say that through unemployment this country is faced with the greatest peril in its history. That statement has been made in this House many times during the last few months. The complaint on these Benches is that the Government proposals for dealing with unemployment are altogether inadequate. We know from figures supplied by the Government that the number of unemployed to-day is about 1,750,000. The House was specially called together to deal with the case of these unemployed, but instead of our dealing with it as a deliberative Assembly we were confronted by a formula drawn up by the Chancellor of the Exchequer which has rendered the whole of these Debates practically a farce. We have been hampered and fettered from the moment we assembled, we have been told over and over again that there is no money in the Exchequer, and that therefore the claims put forward on this side of the House for adequate relief for the unemployed could not be granted. In the mining industry there are, in round numbers, 200,000 unemployed. These men will have
529528527526Mr. G. BARKER
21.  asked the Minister of Labour if he can now make a statement of what he has done and intends to do in giving men unavoidably displaced from the diamond-cutting factories at Brighton and elsewhere some alternative training?Mr. G. BARNES
: Have any applications been received?Mr. BARNES
: Would the hon. Gentleman say whether this point where the armies face one another is outside the territories mentioned in the Treaty of Sevres?Mr. G. BARNES
: Has the hon. Gentleman seen the statement made by the Premier of Greece in which he expressed the intention of remaining outside that area in order to make terms with the Turks? If that be so, is it in accordance with the Treaty?Mr. BARNES
20.  asked the Minister of Labour what is the number of applications received by the Military Service Civil Liabilities Department from ex-service men under the re-settlement scheme up to date; in how many cases have grants been made; and how many cases are at present under consideration?Captain BOWYER
18.  asked the Minister of Labour what is the average number of applications from ex-service men received by the Appointments Department for training and for appointments; how many men altogether have completed training and how many are still being trained; and can he say what percentage of those who have completed their training has been placed?Captain BOWYER
19.  asked the Minister of Labour if the Appointments Department and the Military Service Civil Liabilities Department are to continue to look after ex-service men; and what is his policy as regards these Departments in the future?Captain BOWYER
: May we take it that these two Departments will continue, as long as there is any need for them, on behalf of ex-service men?Captain BOWYER
504: I think it is quite a new situation that business men outside the purview of Government should revise the Estimates to be presented to the House of Commons. That is the first duty of Ministers. It shows quite clearly that Ministers have no idea of the cost of their particular policy. They have had to invoke the aid of these able and capable men. The Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer should know quite clearly beforehand what is the cost of a particular policy. It is for them to say whether a particular policy should be carried out, with full knowledge of the facts. To invoke the aid of these well-known and capable men outside is, I suggest, a slight not only on the present House of Commons but on the House of Commons that will follow it in the days to come. I hope we shall not have any more repetition of that method of Government. The House of Commons and the Cabinet are responsible for the Estimates of the year. The duty of Members of this House during the Recess is to invoke the assistance of their constituents in paying the taxes levied by the State, and they can do it more readily if they are partakers and sharers in the responsibility in this matter with the Government of the day. The Government have failed to secure economy. They have lived on the proceeds of borrowed money. The art of government with a full purse and with a prosperous nation behind you is not a difficult one. Most political problems can be solved by the outpouring of public money. It tends to soften the burden and check discontent. In the years which are ahead of us the nation cannot be governed on that policy. We must live within our early income. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has been too dilatory in securing national economy, and until the last few weeks has kept from this House a full
504Sir G. COLLINS
: I agree, but that does not vitiate my main contention. Through the policy of economy at home practised from 1815 to 1818 by the Government of the day, Consols rose from 54 to 72.Sir G. COLLINS
499498: I think the situation in Russia, for instance, demands certain credits for food stuffs. If Russia is unable to buy from the Dominions, the Dominions are unable to buy from Great Britain. If Russia were on her feet again the price of food stuffs and of raw materials in this country would be decreased, and Great Britain would thereby be enabled to manufacture larger quantities of goods at lower prices. The hon. Member for Farnham (Mr. A. M. Samuel) asked me what else I would suggest. I suggest that the vindictive Clauses in the Peace Treaty, which is hanging over the heads of the German people to-day, are artificially depressing the industrial position in that country. Until Great Britain realises that the whole world is
499498Sir G. COLLINS
: The House has listened, as it always does with close interest to any hon. Member who speaks with first-hand knowledge, to the hon. Member for Dartford. He portrayed to the House a true and correct picture of the situation in distant Russia. It is time the Government reviewed their attitude, not only towards Russia, but also toward the Continent of Europe as a whole. There is no doubt that until the Continent of Europe is on its feet again prosperity cannot return to this country. I suggest to the Government that enlightened self-interest and the best and deepest instincts of the British people demand a new spirit in their international outlook. The people have no desire to see the situation develop as it is developing to-day under our eyes. We appeal to the Government, during the later months of this year, to revise their foreign policy as they have revised certain aspects of their home policy. We ask them to endeavour, during the coming months, to frame a policy which will put Europe on its feet again.Sir GODFREY COLLINS
: The rate of interest was the same in 1815 as in 1818.Sir G. COLLINS
: I agree, but that is immaterial to my point.Sir G. COLLINS
503502"I certainly am hopeful that we shall realise the full amount which we put in the Estimates."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 29th July, 1921; col. 863, Vol. 145.]"I do not look at the present current year's position in the gloomy way in which some of my hon. Friends are apt to do."—[OFFICIAL, REPORT, 16th August, 1921; col. 1335, Vol. 146.]501500: I agree. The Prime Minister and other Ministers have invited a comparison between the conditions today and those of a 100 years ago. I am
503502"I certainly am hopeful that we shall realise the full amount which we put in the Estimates."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 29th July, 1921; col. 863, Vol. 145.]"I do not look at the present current year's position in the gloomy way in which some of my hon. Friends are apt to do."—[OFFICIAL, REPORT, 16th August, 1921; col. 1335, Vol. 146.]501500Sir G. COLLINS
: May I remind you, Sir, that in the Estimate passed yesterday there was a sum of £5,500,000 for the relief of unemployment, which sum was to be spent by various Government Departments, including the money required for the Trade Facilities Bill.Sir G. COLLINS
: How much?Mr. G. LOCKER-LAMPSON
58.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether, in view of the present unsatisfactory position of affairs in Palestine, the Government will consider the question of modifying the present system of administration with the object of bringing it more into sympathy with the views of the majority of the inhabitants and, consequently, reducing the heavy cost of the present system of administration, which is now borne by the British taxpayer?Mr. H. MORRISON
33.  asked the Minister of Health whether in rural areas where there are any number of unemployed in the building trades he will consider applications for housing schemes where houses are still needed?Mr. H. MORRISON
539538entente,537536: The hon. Member for Central Cardiff (Mr. Gould), who is a well-known shipowner, perhaps one of the best known in this country, as well as a well-known supporter of the Govern-
539538entente,537536Mr. LAWSON
30.  asked the Minister of Health whether his attention has been called to the increase of scarlet fever and diphtheria cases in London; whether his Department has taken any action in order to control the spread of these diseases; if so, will he state in what way; can he state the number of cases now under treatment in hospitals; and if there is a sufficient number of hospital places for all sufferers if the epidemics spread further?Mr. GILBERT
15.  asked the Minister of Labour to state the number of Employment Exchanges which now exist in the county of London and in the GreaterMr. GILBERT
69.  asked the hon. Member for the Pollok Division of Glasgow, as representing the First Commissioner of Works, whether he can now give any definite dates as to when the temporary buildings will be removed from St. James's Park, the Embankment Gardens, and the Victoria Tower Gardens, adjacent to Lambeth Bridge?Mr. GILBERT
: The hon. Gentleman is going rather wide now when he proposes to discuss the system responsible for unemployment.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: It is not in order to refer to the finance of next year. Finance is only in order on this Bill at all in so much as the extra Supplementary Estimate disturbs the finance of the present year. It is only in that way that it becomes in order at all, because this is not the Second Reading of a Finance Bill, in which case it would be entirely in order.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: It would be in order to call attention to unemployment in the coal industry and the means whereby employment might be increased, but it would not be in order to discuss the working of the coal agreement or the actual wages paid.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER (Mr. James Hope)
: The hon. and gallant Member is not in order in discussing the original action of the Government in calling out the Defence Force. That was ruled by the Deputy-Chairman, when the Estimate was before the House, to be out of order, and the hon. and gallant Member must not pursue that subject.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: It is quite in order to discuss remedies, but I do not think it is in order to discuss causes.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: There are certain Estimates put forward. These are Supplementary Estimates. Whatever is in order on the Supplementary Estimates is in order on the Consolidated Fund Bill. There is a Vote for the partial relief of unemployment. It is in order to argue that that Vote is insufficient or that some better plan might be devised to provide more employment, but discussion of the actual wages in the coalfields is not in order.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: That clearly is out of order. The hon. Gentleman can discuss unemployment and the remedies which the Government have suggested, and he can argue that the remedies are insufficient or that other remedies ought to be applied, but he is not in order in going back two or three years to the history of transactions.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: Has there not been a definite statement in this House that no final settlement would be arrived at without giving the House an opportunity of discussing it?Sir J. REMNANT
: I have not heard it answered once.Sir J. REMNANT
68.  asked the Minister of Agriculture if his attention has been called to the request of the Gloucestershire County Council and to a similar request from the East Dean Rural District Council that his Department should receive a deputation from these bodies to explain the local circumstances affecting the proposals to the Commissioners of Woods and Forests for unemployment relief work; and whether, having regard to the unusual conditions connected with the Forest of Dean, he will arrange to receive such a deputation?Mr. WIGNALL
408: I want to put a question to the Leader of the House. In so doing, I am sure he is fully aware of the fact that all Members of the House and people all over the whole country, are not only deeply concerned in the negotiations proceeding in respect of the Irish question, but are anxious for them to have a happy issue. In view of the fact, may I ask my right hon. Friend whether steps cannot be taken, either to postpone the Prorogation or make some arrange-
408Mr. CLYNES
403: It is hoped that the bulk of the buildings in
403Lieut.-Colonel Sir J. GILMOUR (for the First Commissioner of Works)
: For this obvious reason, that the staffs will have to be transferred to other offices.Sir J. GILMOUR
: How many courts have been dispersed in consequence of the orders given to the police?Colonel GRETTON
: May I ask in what respect present circumstances differ from those contemplated when the House adjourned on the 19th August, when the Conference was proceeding, and a crisis might probably arise before the ordinary period when Parliament would be summoned—a crisis which would require the attention of Parliament?Colonel GRETTON
 (by Private Notice)asked the Prime Minister if he can say whether it is the intention of the Government to prorogue or adjourn Parliament when the Government business now before the House has been disposed of?Colonel GRETTON
: On a point of Order. I desire to give notice that I propose to raise the question of the Prorogation of Parliament on the Motion for the Adjournment at the end of this Sitting.Colonel GRETTON
570: I had intended, had time permitted, to raise the question of the advice given that Parliament should now prorogue and not adjourn. Obviously in the very few moments that remain there is no time to debate such a question; in fact, the House has already largely dispersed, and the question can no longer be adequately considered. All I can do in the circumstances is to call attention to the advice which has been given. Parliament is to be dismissed till another Session. In ordinary times the new Session starts in February, sometimes late in February of each year. Visibly, events are approaching a crisis in regard to the affairs of Ireland. One has only to read the papers to see the agitation which is now stirring the affairs of the Conference. Visibly, a crisis is approaching, and grave decisions may have to be taken. The Government foresaw the situation arising in August, and then they advised that Parliament should be adjourned. Why not adjourn now? That is not the only question which is approaching a state of great difficulty. We have endeavoured to call attention and raise a Debate on the affairs of India, surely a subject sufficiently grave to occupy the attention of this House. Such information as reaches the country shows that the affairs of India are not improving, but are going gradually worse. A crisis may quite possibly occur, before Parliament meets again, and a grave decision may have to be taken by His Majesty s Government in regard to Egypt. Why is Parliament to be got rid of? Why is Parliament to be dismissed and thrust upon one side, leaving the Government in a position of autocracy to take decisions which are irrevocable and which Parliament cannot afterwards remedy? There are other
570Colonel GRETTON
497496"We are doing all we can to provide charity, but even our charity is being seriously impeded by the campaign of misrepresentation which is being carried on. There are any amount of lies being circulated. I am reminded of one story that went to the papers, namely, that the first train Mr. Hoover sent in to feed Russia was looted by the Soviet army in Russia. It was a lie, but still the same story was repeated over and over again. I was abused for having sent an expedition to Siberia, and it was said I was bringing arms for the revolution. That was another lie. All that has been done was to carry agricultural machinery to Siberia, and that surely was not a very dangerous proceeding. Suppose our action does strengthen the Soviet Government. Is there any member of this Assembly who would argue that rather than help the Soviet Government we should allow 20,000,000 to die of starvation? I challenge this Assembly to answer that question."495"There are at this moment between 20,000,000 and 30,000,000 people threatened with starvation and death. If help is not forthcoming within two months from now, their fate is sealed. Everything that is needed to save them is only a few hundred miles away. The necessary transport can be available at a month's notice. Agreements have been made for traffic. … The methods for the execution of these agreements are ready. There has been raised in
495494493"The public is keenly interested at this moment in the question of the safety of the goods sent to Russia. Dr. Nansen's personal experience, referred to in the "Times" this morning, is especially useful, and I am going to add the experience of my Committee, which is similar. For the last year and a half we who have been the only foreign relief agency in Russia have sent in
493: I feel on this matter as seriously as any man in this House. If the hon. Gentleman wants any proof of what I am saying, here are proofs by the dozen—proofs from Members of the Canadian Parliament, Members of the American Senate, from Dr. Nansen, and from Miss Elizabeth Fry, one of that group of practical Christians—the Quakers—who have done more to uphold the standard of Christianity since 1915 than any other established religion in Christendom. This lady can speak with authority for those who have been responsible for the efficiency of the relief work. She says:
497496"We are doing all we can to provide charity, but even our charity is being seriously impeded by the campaign of misrepresentation which is being carried on. There are any amount of lies being circulated. I am reminded of one story that went to the papers, namely, that the first train Mr. Hoover sent in to feed Russia was looted by the Soviet army in Russia. It was a lie, but still the same story was repeated over and over again. I was abused for having sent an expedition to Siberia, and it was said I was bringing arms for the revolution. That was another lie. All that has been done was to carry agricultural machinery to Siberia, and that surely was not a very dangerous proceeding. Suppose our action does strengthen the Soviet Government. Is there any member of this Assembly who would argue that rather than help the Soviet Government we should allow 20,000,000 to die of starvation? I challenge this Assembly to answer that question."495"There are at this moment between 20,000,000 and 30,000,000 people threatened with starvation and death. If help is not forthcoming within two months from now, their fate is sealed. Everything that is needed to save them is only a few hundred miles away. The necessary transport can be available at a month's notice. Agreements have been made for traffic. … The methods for the execution of these agreements are ready. There has been raised in
495494493"The public is keenly interested at this moment in the question of the safety of the goods sent to Russia. Dr. Nansen's personal experience, referred to in the "Times" this morning, is especially useful, and I am going to add the experience of my Committee, which is similar. For the last year and a half we who have been the only foreign relief agency in Russia have sent in
493Mr. MILLS
492491"Food is wasting in the granaries of the earth while millions of men, women, and
491"If Russia is saved from starvation the unemployment problem throughout the world will be solved."490489: When we hear a speech made by an admitted authority on commerce and finance, such as that which
492491"Food is wasting in the granaries of the earth while millions of men, women, and
491"If Russia is saved from starvation the unemployment problem throughout the world will be solved."490489Mr. MILLS
: Is the hon. and gallant Gentleman not aware that in other Government establishments representations were made in similar cases, and the prior service was granted in those cases?Mr. MILLS
48.  asked the Prime Minister if his attention has been drawn to the discrepancy between the Official Report of Mr. Egerton S. Grey, Controller and Administrator of the Clearing House, stating that the amount paid to British creditors on account of enemy debts is approximately £20,000,000, and the figure appearing in the "Board of Trade Journal" of the 2nd November, that the payments to British creditors on the same account amount to £11,000,000; to what class of claimant has the sum actually paid been disbursed; whether the major part of this sum has been distributed to various considerable trading companies; whether the small claimant, who after internment in enemy civilian camps was repatriated, and who is in many cases suffering seriously in health as a result of enemy action and is now perfectly destitute is being accorded any measure of priority in the settlement of material claims; and, if not, can assistance be granted from Government funds pending the settlement of the claims of these claimants?Mr. MILLS
34. 372 asked the Minister of Health if he is aware that the guardians of the Brentford Union have fixed a maximum scale of outdoor relief of 9s. per week for a man, a similar amount for his wife, and 5s. per week for each child under 16 years of age, with a maximum gross grant of 50s. a week; whether, in many cases, the recipients of outdoor relief are unemployed ex-service men residing in the Ealing and Hanwell districts; if the local branch of the British Legion Unity Relief Fund recently received a small grant from Lord Haig's Fund in order to help acute cases of distress among families of ex-service men; if the head office of the British Legion Unity Relief Fund strongly advise local committees that the fund should apply only to exceptional cases of distress of ex-service men and their families; if a grant of 3s. each was made for two weeks to a number of unemployed ex-service men and their wives, each case being carefully investigated by the local committee; whether, in the following week, the guardians of the Brentford Union reduced the amount of outdoor relief to a number of unemployed ex-service men on account of the small grant received from Lord Haig's Fund; if on 2nd November, after receiving a deputation from the Ealing and Hanwell unemployed ex-service men, the guardians of the Brent-ford Union, by the chairman's casting vote, decided that in future cases the full amount of grants received from the British Legion Unity Relief Fund and the United Services Fund should be deducted from any outdoor relief paid to unemployed ex-service men; and, since Lord Haig's Fund was voluntarily raised to deal specially with urgent cases of distress amongst ex-service men, will he call the attention of the Brentford Union to the matter and ask that the small grant received from Lord Haig's Fund to ex-service men shall not be taken as a cause for the reduction in the scale of outdoor relief and that the same principle be applied to any grant made to cases of acute distress among unemployed ex-service men from the United Services Fund, which is used solely for exceptional cases of hardship amongst ex-service men and their families and cannot in any way be
372Mr. MILLS
 (by Private Notice)asked the Minister of Labour if he can state the arrangements which have been made to advance or defer the usual payments of unemployed pay to ex-service men on the occasion of the Armistice celebrations on Friday next, the 11th instant, in view of the fact that a large number of the men desire to be present at gatherings throughout the country?Mr. MILLS
: In view of the widespread complaints that have been made about these grants being taken into consideration, and having in mind that they are only given in selected cases of destitute ex-service men with large families, will the right hon. Gentleman specifically issue instructions that in these exceptional cases the grants be not taken into account?Mr. MILLS
: I have been asked to reply to this question. As stated in my reply to the hon. Member for the Dunfermline Burghs on the 27th October, the proposal mentioned has been considered with reference to the question of unmployment, but the scheme is not one which can be undertaken by the Government at the present time. I am not aware that any firms are prepared to finance the scheme during construction, but even if such were the case, these firms would require to be fully recouped and the financial position of the Government would be practically the same as if it had borrowed the necessary money in ordinary course. With regard to the suggestion that such a canal would be profitable, I would refer my hon. Friend to my previous reply.Mr. PRATT (Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Health, Scotland)
: There is not much for beer now.Mr. ROBERTSON
555"He whom this scroll commemorates was numbered amongst those who at the call of King and Country left all that was dear to them, endured hardship, and finally passed out of the sight of men by the path of duty and self-sacrifice, giving up his life that others might live in freedom. Let those who come after see to it that his name be not forgotten.": The Financial Secretary to the Treasury said an unprecedented course had been taken in discussing this Budget. He said the critics had darkened every colour that was dark, and that, like the White Queen in "Alice in Wonderland," they cried out before they were hurt. I cannot imagine the Financial Secretary to the Treasury, or anyone else, having a darker picture than the unemployed in the country at the present time. I cannot imagine anyone suggesting the unemployed are crying out before they are hurt. To say that may be the attitude of the individual who is comfortable and well fed, but it is not the position of the individual suffering outside. He also said there was a complaint that this problem ought to have been dealt with earlier. No one who is a fair critic will deny that the unemployment problem ought to have been faced earlier. We went on holiday and were called together only when there were grave threatenings on the part of the unemployed. I am prepared to admit that any government—even a Labour Government had it been in power—would have had after the War a difficult problem to face, but what I complain of is that the same steps have not been taken since the War to build up industry as were taken in order to carry on the War. I could not imagine this House going on holiday for three months in the autumn of 1914, with the Germans knocking at our gates! To think of it, the unemployed have been knocking at our gates—at the gates of Palace Yard—and are still knocking. Let me read to the House what I saw on a scroll in a miner's home—a miner whose two sons fell in the Great War, and who himself has been out of work for several months:
555"He whom this scroll commemorates was numbered amongst those who at the call of King and Country left all that was dear to them, endured hardship, and finally passed out of the sight of men by the path of duty and self-sacrifice, giving up his life that others might live in freedom. Let those who come after see to it that his name be not forgotten."Mr. ROBERTSON
: I speak subject to correction, but that is the figure supplied to me.Mr. WALLACE
564: I intervene reluctantly for a minute. I would not have done so but for the speech of the hon. Member for Bothwell (Mr. J. Robertson). He represents in this House a mining district as I do, and he made certain statements which should not be allowed to go unchallenged. It is an easy thing to make statements about the Government in reference to unemployment,_ but his statements were quite inaccurate. He said that the House had taken a three months' holiday with a total disregard to unemployment. The Government last year appointed a Committee, which has been sitting continuously since dealing with the question of unemployment, and but for the fact that the Government took that line, in my judgment, the state of unemployment in the country to-day would have been very much more serious than it is. The hon. Member ought to remember
564Mr. J. WALLACE
565: As the right hon. Gentleman is not certain, I shall adhere to my own figure, subject to correction. Even 12,000,000 tons is a very large quantity, and the loss of orders for that quantity must cause unemployment on a great scale in mining areas. There is no place in the country that I know of at present where unemployment is more serious than in the county of Fife, where you have got those large coal-bearing areas. I would ask the Secretary for Mines, who has always been most sympathetic in reference to questions concerning mines, whether something cannot be done by our Government to revise the terms of the Treaty under which this enormous quantity of coal is sent from Germany to France. Treaties are not like the laws of the Medes and Persians. It is clear that in some form that Treaty will have to be revised in this particular regard so far as coal is concerned. We must think, first of all, of the interests of our own people at home. There is no doubt about the very serious condition of the coal mining industry in this country to-day. If by some modification of that Treaty the position can be altered and more employment provided, I do think
565Mr. WALLACE
: The hon. Member, I am afraid, has mistaken the occasion. This is not a Ways and Means discussion on the new Budget. That will come at the beginning of next year.Mr. SPEAKER
516: I must point out that, the policy of the Government was approved at that time by the definite decision of the House. Therefore we cannot at this time reopen that question, but I imagine that the hon. Member's remarks
516Mr. SPEAKER
: On that point, I must warn the hon. and gallant Member that Prorogation is part of the Royal Prerogative and not an Executive action.Mr. SPEAKER
: That was not the way in which the hon. and gallant Member put his question.Mr. SPEAKER
: That question has been asked several times and clearly answered several times.Mr. SPEAKER
410: I am afraid that my views might differ from those of the Noble Lord on such a question. Clearly, this Bill contains an additional £15,000,000 or,16,000,000 of additional money
410Mr. SPEAKER
: I think not. The Consolidated Fund Bill contains only Votes which have been passed since the House re-assembled in October, and therefore the discussion on the Bill must be relevant to what the Bill contains.Mr. SPEAKER
: Really, it is an abuse of question time for hon. Members to put forward their own opinions in this way. It is also a waste of the time that should be devoted to the other questions on the Paper.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. and gallant Member is giving his own opinion.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Baronet can do that for himself.Mr. SPEAKER
: I think the hon. and gallant Gentleman is tendering information. He had better give it to the proper source.Mr. SPEAKER
: This is developing into a Debate.Mr. SPEAKER
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that this man was kidnapped by Ulster volunteers? Will the hon. Gentleman send a copy of this question and answer to the "Morning Post"?Mr. DEVLIN
: Not that kind.Mr. N. MACLEAN
514513512511510"The House may take it from me that whatever happens there will be what I may fairly describe as a very substantial sum available out of German reparation payments to help our revenue."509"It is perfectly certain that we are not going to have any surplus upon this year's Budget. Indeed, what we have to look forward to is that we shall have a deficit.""Let me caution the House against the repeated use of the word 'deficit' in the observations of the hon. Member. There are no deficits in sight."508: When my hon. and gallant Friend commended the speech of the hon. Member for Dartford (Mr. Mills) I was puzzled at the sudden access of extreme philanthropy in a quarter where I had not recognised it. When he extended his observations to the question of the pre-War debts of Russia I was once again within my depth. Addressing myself to the opening speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it might be unkind to ask the right hon. Gentleman at this stage of affairs who to-day he estimates was more correct last summer, the optimists or the pessimists, with all the accompanying adjectives of that period. Perhaps the Financial Secretary to the Treasury will be able to give us his views on the subject in view of his own even more remarkable record in that connection than that of the Chancellor himself. He was, if anything, even harder on the pessimists, more exuberant in his determined optimism, last summer than even his illustrious colleague. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has to-day addressed a stern admonition to the British people, recognising that in times of adversity and hardship they always display the most tenacious and most admirable qualities. He has at length decided under such circumstances they are always at their best and he determined to reveal to them the true facts. Last summer when we suggested that it was always better to tell the British public when they were in a tight place and then they would exert themselves, as they have at every crisis of their history the Chancellor of the Exchequer deployed our extreme pessimism. He said, "You are shattering trade to its foundations by the speeches you are making foretelling disaster to your country. Why should we always cry stinking fish about our own doings?" Those were the expressions he used. We were looked upon as criminals engaged in a deliberate attempt to shake the credit of our country. What a change of tone. I was greatly puzzled as to the reason of this change of tone and the only reason I can find is that after all a General Elec-
514513512511510"The House may take it from me that whatever happens there will be what I may fairly describe as a very substantial sum available out of German reparation payments to help our revenue."509"It is perfectly certain that we are not going to have any surplus upon this year's Budget. Indeed, what we have to look forward to is that we shall have a deficit.""Let me caution the House against the repeated use of the word 'deficit' in the observations of the hon. Member. There are no deficits in sight."508Mr. MOSLEY
59.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies the financial result of the trading under the Nauru Island Agreement of the 2nd July, 1919; what quantity of phosphate has been supplied to the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand, respectively; whether any and, if so, what profit has resulted from the supply of phosphates to those countries which are not within the agreement; and whether the agreement has been ratified by the League of Nations?Mr. MOSLEY
: Will the right hon. Gentleman also consider the case of private contributions which are raised in the locality for the relief of the unemployed, and request the guardians not to take such subscriptions into account in granting relief?Mr. MOSLEY
37.  asked the Minister of Health whether he will state the purpose to which the Central London District Schools intend to devote the huts in Framfield Road, Hanwell; whether he will make further representations to secure this accommodation for the housing of ex-service men, some of whom are now living in single rooms with families of six and seven; and can he say when these huts were last utilised?Mr. MOSLEY
: Will the right hon. Gentleman give the House an assurance that no arrangement will be come to in regard to the Irish situation without calling together this House?Mr. GWYNNE
: Is that what remains after deduction of the amounts returned by the Exchequer from the amount paid to it?Mr. HOLMES
484483: I am going to try to show that if this Government will take certain measures, they will reduce considerably the amount they will have to
484483Mr. HOLMES
482pro tanto481: Following the hon. Member for Cleveland (Sir P. Goff), on behalf of the party opposite, and the hon. Member for Central Edinburgh (Mr. W. Graham), on behalf of the Labour party, I should like, if I may, on behalf of the party which was particularly interested in the return at the recent by-election of the hon. Member for Louth (Mrs. Wintringham) to congratulate her very warmly upon the substance, humour and manner of delivery of her first speech in this House. Bitter experience is slowly hut surely bringing home to the Government and people alike certain economic facts. The first is that we have lost an incredible amount of wealth as the result of the War, and that the only way in which we can maintain a satisfactory standard of life is by conserving what remains with the utmost care, and by utilisinfi it with the utmost wisdom. If it had been possible for anyone to have gone to sleep on the 1st August, 1914, and to have remained dormant and ignorant of the world happenings until the end of 1918, and had then, on awakening, studied the measures and actions of the Government, and had seen the way in which Government extravagance had been followed by individual extravagance, he would have jumped to the inevitable conclusion that by some dispensation of Providence the industries of this country had been flourishing, and were flourishing, in an unexampled manner, and could bear any and every burden of taxation which might be put upon them. The unemployment from which we are suffering at the present time is largely due to national
482pro tanto481Mr. HOLMES
: I do not want in any way to go beyond the scope, but the Bill includes a vote for unemployment. What I have been endeavouring to show up to the moment was that if the Government would help credit they would reduce their Votes in another direction, and the point I am now endeavouring to make is on similar lines.Mr. HOLMES
515: Examining the Bill providing for the sum of £16,000,000, one has to take note of the fact that two items alone constitute about 70 per cent. of the sum required. The War Office is responsible for £5,700,000 and unemployment for £5,500,000. A great deal has been said this evening as to the policy of the Government, and I submit with great respect that it is the policy of the Government against which this party protested that is responsible to a very great degree for these high figures. The Defence Force stands for £3,800,000, and the addition to the Regular Forces for £1,800,000, and these items, with £5,500,000 for unemployment, make over £11,000,000 out of the £16,000,000. I cannot help referring, even in the closing days of the Session, to the advice which we gave from the fulness of our experience to those responsible for the Mines Department, entreating them not to pursue the policy that they had then adopted. We said, "It is as certain as night follows day that the action you are taking will involve this country in a grave social disaster." We repeated in every possible way those entreaties and warnings, and every warning and every entreaty was treated with contempt or, when they were not treated with contempt, they were slighted and scoffed at as though we were simply wasting time and trifling with the House. The Minister of Mines stated, "All these dangers that you are portraying will never happen. You and the employers are really good friends. Within a few
515Mr. S. WALSH
517: I must of necessity accept your ruling, but I should point out that it is impossible to lead up to the special points to which I ask the attention of the House unless, as you say, by a preamble. It must be remembered that this industry that was so gravely threatened then is fundamental to all other industries. At this very moment we have probably 180,000 people out of employment altogether. We certainly have three times that number in partial employment, and either from the actual £5,500,000 provided in this Vote, or from the rates of the various authorities must come the relief for the people who are unemployed or for people who with their wages are utterly unable to maintain life for themselves and their families. It may be of interest to the House to state that a deputation waited on the Prime Minister to-day to see how far this industry which is threatened now with almost total collapse could be assisted. During the evening the hon. Member for Cleveland (Sir Park Goff), in a speech in which I was somewhat interested, spoke in a rather limited way, it seemed to me, as to the condition of the blast furnaces and the miners connected with that industry in the constituency which he represents, and he spoke of the Whitley Council and of a living wage in the industry, and went on to say that in his opinion lessening wages meant loss of efficiency on the part of the worker and loss of the home market.517Mr. WALSH
: I thought it might be in order, inasmuch as we have spoken upon the policy of the Government, and have protested against it earlier in the Session. I thought my remarks were consequent thereon as a means of showing the evil effect of the Government policy.Mr. WALSH
: I understood that the general line of argument I am now pursuing was admitted by your predecessor in the Chair. During our Debate continued reference from both sides of the House has been made to the wider issue and to Government policy in Ireland, and in Russia, Peace Treaty reparations, and so forth. The whole subject has been discussed on a very wide scale, but I do not for one moment want to traverse your ruling.Mr. WALSH
: Under that ruling it is very difficult for me to carry on my line of argument. It is a fact that the policy of the Government has resulted in a large addition of miners to the ranks of the unemployed. I am sure that this Fund of £5,500,000, which is to be applied to dependants relief and other schemes, will be impinged upon to a great extent by the unemployed miners because of the policy of the Government. We have been urging the Government to come to our assistance because we recognise that much of this unemployment has its origin in the conditions of the coal-mining industry; but we failed to satisfy the Government of the necessities of the case. We believe that if the Government had not gone into reckless adventures, against which we have protested on many occasions—adventures in Russia, for instance, when, however hopeless the prospect seemed, the Government somehow—Mr. WALSH
: It is quite clear I cannot pursue that line of argument without coming seriously into conflict with the opinion which you, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, have expressed, and I have not the slightest intention of doing that. I bow to your ruling. We on this side of the House, and those of us who are directly associated with the great mining industry, can only point out, in the closing days of this Session, that this Vote of millions would not have been required had our policy been adopted. We can only point out to this House, and through this House to the nation, what a terrible condition has been brought about by the policy of the Government. It is impossible for us to suggest remedies now. A scheme has been thrust upon the miners and the country by the Government for a period of 18 months, and it is out our power to suggest any deviation from, or any alteration in that particular agreement. These are the results of the policy of the Government, and having said that I need not trouble the House any further.Mr. WALSH
: May I ask a question which I think is relevant to the subject before the House? I wish to know if the Government will give any opportunity for discussing a question which has excited widespread interest both in the country and in the House of Commons in reference to the articles of the so-called Angora Treaty? I have a Motion down calling attention to this subject from the point of view of the interests of the Christian and other non-Turkish subjects in the Turkish Empire, and I hope the Government will see their way to give an opportunity for the expression of our point of view on that question, subject to the understanding that we say nothing that might in any way impair friendly relations.Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: On a question of Order. May I ask whether I would be in order in raising the question of the future of Christian and other non-Turkish races under the Turkish Empire as affected by the so-called Treaty of Angora, on the discussion on the Consolidated Fund Bill?Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: The truce breaches reported by Royal Irish Constabulary total 528, and by Dublin Metropolitan Police 67. This includes 206 kidnappings, in 144 of which the persons kidnapped are known to have been released, and release is believed although not definitely known in a number of other cases; 150 of the other breaches relate to drilling, etc., not involving interference with individuals. Breaches of the truce are dealt with when ascertained, and a number of men are at present in custody for trial for various offences in this connection.The ATTORNEY-GENERAL for IRELAND (Mr. T. W. Brown)
: Yes, a number of persons have been punished for these offences.Mr. BROWN
52.  asked the Prime Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the proposal for a Forth and Clyde ship canal; whether he is aware that if the Government will sanction the scheme it will not involve the Treasury in any financial outlay at present, as there are firms who are prepared to finance the scheme until the completion of the work; and whether, in view of the necessity for opening up every possible avenue of employment and of the fact that the canal would be a profitable asset to the nation, he will consider the possibility of sanctioning the commencement of the scheme without delay?Mr. KENNEDY
: As my hon. Friend knows, the whole system is considered by a Committee, and I shall be glad to get the services of Lord Cave as its Chairman, but while the serious matter of unemployment is before us it is necessary to put that back.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The facts are as stated in the first two parts of the question; with regard to the third part, I received representations that the rates, if confirmed, would cause unemployment and increase the price of milk, and I felt that in the faoe of these representations I should not be justified in confirming the rates until I had had the considered views of the Board on these two points.Dr. MACNAMARA
baThe following is the answer:: As the answer is a long one, I will, with the hon. Member's permission, circulate it in the OFFICIAL REPORT.baThe following is the answer:Dr. MACNAMARA
: The arrangement previously in operation was that the branch manager at Bakewell attended twice or three times a week at a sub-office at Tideswell. This arrangement was discontinued on 17th September owing to the small number then claiming benefit at Tideswell; but on account of the increase in this number since that date it has been decided to restore the arrangement for the time being.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I do not understand my hon. and gallant Friend's question.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I cannot follow my hon. and gallant Friend in the deduction which he draws from the fact that in 23 counties there are no separate Employment Exchanges, though there are, I may inform him, Branch Offices. I have for a long time past now been reviewing with the greatest possible care the whole question of these establishments; and, indeed, shall have closed by the end of the present calendar year 185 Branch Offices. But how in the industrial areas the needs of the working population are to be met, and particularly the administration of the Unemployment Insurance benefit, without the Exchange system, I confess I do not understand.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I am afraid I cannot argue this at any length, although I should be very glad to do so. I am bound to make provision in the great industrial areas for the needs of these poor people, and, as I have already said at the end of my answer, how this is to be done without the Exchange system and the Insurance Act I do not understand.Dr. MACNAMARA
: My hon. Friend will, I am sure, appreciate that in order to be able to pay benefit to many thousands of men and women I have had to make arrangements at each Exchange whereby the claimants are asked to attend in an order notified to them beforehand. It is only in this way that I can avoid the presence of long queues. I am, however, going into the point raised by my hon. Friend, and am in communication with the Exchanges locally. Of course I view his proposal with every sympathy.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Owing to the different character of the work. I do not know whether I could offer ex-service men wages at such a low rate, but I should like to discuss the matter with my hon. Friend the Member for East Islington (Mr. Raper). I gave an undertaking, which I carried out, that I would review this matter from top to bottom once more, as I had done many times previously. There are posts which men might possibly take; these posts, however, are paid at such a low rate that I doubt very much whether men would take them.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Already a review has been made of the work which is being done by women at Kew, and a great many of the posts are paid at a rate which is considerably less than the lowest amount paid to men clerks—Dr. MACNAMARA
: As regards the additional work which is now falling to Employment Exchanges, ex-service men only are being appointed for the work on the men's side of the Exchanges. The women staff, graded as writing assistants, who are employed in the Ministry of Labour are permanent civil servants, and, as such, are not substitutable by temporary ex-service men. My hon. and gallant Friend may be assured that the staff of the Ministry of Labour has been again and again reviewed, in order that ex-service men may be substituted for women, married or single, liable to substitution under the terms of the Lytton Reports and not dependent on their earnings for a livelihood.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The number of applications received by the Civil Liabilities Department from ex-service men under the re-settlement scheme up to the 31st October, 1921, is 282,239. Grants have been made since the Armistice in 110,024 cases, amounting to 3,250,000 of money; there are at present 5,115 cases under consideration.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have to carry out the Regulations.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I cannot say without inquiry. I shall inquire and let the right hon. Gentleman know.Dr. MACNAMARA
: As I have already informed my right hon. Friend, the men may be given alternative training in another trade provided they remain eligible. Each man who requires such training has already been invited to apply to the Divisional Director of his home area. Every endeavour will be made to place the men in fresh training with the least possible delay.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Yes, certainly.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Of course, so long as our obligation to the ex-service men remains unrequited, we shall require machinery in order that it may be accomplished. But, again, of course, the expenditure upon official machinery must depend upon the volume of work to be accomplished; and it is certainly not prejudicial to the interests of the ex-service man to economise as closely as possible, on purely official administrative expenditure. I cannot say at the present time when it may be possible, in view of the interests involved, to dispense altogether with the machinery of the Appointments Branch or of the Civil Liabilities Department.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The average number of applications for appointments from ex-officers and men of similar educational attainments received by the Appointments Department during 1921 was 680 per week—the total for the year being 29,235. For training the average weekly number was 49—the total of the year being 2,093. 11,585 men have completed their training and 6,229 are still being trained. 83 per cent. of those who have completed training have been placed in employment. All these figures are quite apart from training under the Industrial Training Scheme for Disabled Men.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I have said that under the regulations, which I have to carry out, industrial training under the Ministry of Labour is only for men disabled during the late European War.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I regret that only ex-service men disabled during the late European War are eligible for industrial training under the Ministry of Labour.The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
: Will the hon. and gallant Gentleman say whether I.D.R.E.S. is a food or a drink?Mr. T. SHAW
63.  asked the Secretary of State for War what is the annual cost of the I.D.R.E.S. depot at Southall and the number of employés; and, seeing that it was erected as a temporary depot during the War, why is its existence continued?Mr. TICKLER
: I would not be certain.Mr. BRIDGEMAN
385: Is it not the case that the right hon. Gentleman has had a considered reply from the Board, which fully investigated this matter and which was thoroughly representative of both
385Mr. GRAHAM
26.  asked the Minister of Labour whether at a meeting in July last the Milk Distributive Trade Board (Scotland), representative of employers, workers, and appointed members, unanimously agreed to certain wage rates; whether on 5th October the Ministry of Labour refused to confirm the raters on the ground that, if passed, they would reduce the number of persons employed and increase the cost of milk to the consumer; and whether, having regard to the fact that these rates were fixed by people having intimate knowledge of the trade and anxious to promote its prosperity, he can state the reason for this decision?Mr. W. GRAHAM
477476475474bonâ fidebonâ fide473: It so happens I am the first Labour Member to address the House since the hon. Member for Louth (Mrs. Wintringham) intervened, and I desire to associate myself with the tribute which was paid to her speech by my hon. Friend who spoke last, and to say that on this side of the House, irrespective of any party feeling, we cordially welcome her contribution to the Debate. The speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer has probably surprised some of us, at least to this extent, that we were prepared for a much gloomier pronouncement. Many Members in all parts of the House were prepared to hear the Chancellor of the Exchequer say that in all probability either before April next, or when the Budget came to be presented, very drastic steps would be required. No doubt the steps which so far have been indicated are exceptional. They make it perfectly plain to us that we shall require to consider with very great care the financial position of this country up to the time of the next Budget, and do everything in our power in industry and commerce to improve the situation. The Chancellor of the Exchequer indicated that he foresaw a substantial diminution of revenue under three heads, the first being Stamp Duty, the second being the very great drop in the returns to be obtained from the sale of assets, and the third being the undoubtedly great drop in the expected yield of the Excess Profits Duty. Taking this matter of revenue, and considering for the moment more particularly Income Tax and Excess Profits Duty, I wish to make one or two points as clearly and simply as I can. It will be agreed that under present conditions, while we deplore the very high taxation which prevails, it is our duty to see that the taxpayers fulfil their obligations strictly under the law as it stands. We must see that we get the maximum revenue. To that end, some of us in previous Debates repeatedly asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he was prepared to do anything in the direction of trying to put into operation the full recommendations of the Royal Commission on Income
477476475474bonâ fidebonâ fide473Mr. W. GRAHAM
pro rata.566: After the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the two speeches that interested me most were those of the hon. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Bigland) and the hon. Member for Dartford (Mr. Mills). Though the speech of the hon. Member for Dartford followed that of the hon. Member for Birkenhead, I think that the first speech was in reply to the second. The speech of the hon. Member for Birkenhead was a well-reasoned argument showing that we were in need of a far better system of fluency in our currency. The speech of the hon. Member for Dartford showed that in some parts of Europe the people are in great need of goods and there are in other parts of the world goods which could easily be transmitted if the means of exchange were available. I think the whole Debate has turned on the question whether the policy of the Government 18 months ago, of excessive deflation, had been carried too far or not, and whether a change in the policy of the Government in deciding for a temporary inflation was right or not. I hope the Government will give very careful consideration to the views expressed by the hon. Member for Birkenhead. We are short of currency. We are using a standard of currency that is almost prohibitive. It is confined now almost entirely to the wealthiest countries. If the suggestion that a ratio between gold and silver should be decided, could be adopted, it might help to increase our currency and by so doing help to bring along the means of exchange and allow trade to flow in its usual channels.pro rata.566Mr. W. GREENWOOD
: Are not the reasons and conditions which actuated the Prime Minister's statement on 19th August still more operative at the present time?Mr. HOWARD GRITTEN
39.  asked the Chief Secretary how many Sinn Fein so-called courts have been constituted and are now sitting in Southern Ireland; and what steps have been taken, or are proposed to be taken, to suppress these courts?Mr. HOWARD GRITTEN
: Do members of the Irish Bar, King's Counsel, Serjeants-at-Law, and the junior Bar practise in these illegal courts?Mr. GRITTEN
: Is it not a fact that to place large numbers of patients in these private institutions would cause a large drain on the financial resources of the right hon. Gentleman's Department?Mr. GRITTEN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that Dublin Corporation regularly summon people to these courts?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
56. That this House views with grave concern the present state of India, and urges upon His Majesty's Government to take immediate steps to re-establish law and order in that country. asked the Lord Privy Seal whether he has now considered the Motion standing on the Paper in the names of the hon. Member for Twickenham and others; and if he can give a day for its discussion—That this House views with grave concern the present state of India, and urges upon His Majesty's Government to take immediate steps to re-establish law and order in that country.Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: May I ask my right hon. Friend if he is aware—I am sure he is—of the very grave anxiety felt by many Members of this House in regard to this matter, as there has been no Debate on Indian affairs this year, and will he give us an undertaking that the Indian Vote, the salary of the Secretary for India shall be set down as early as possible next Session so that we may have an early Debate?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
54.  asked the Prime Minister whether his attention has been called to the recent Arab-Jewish riots in Jerusalem; whether he is aware that full Reports of the previous riots have been kept from the House of Commons, and of the very serious situation in Palestine owing to the interpretation of the Balfour declaration by the Colonial Office; and whether he will give a day for discussion, both of the Mandate and the military position, in the House?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
44.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether he will arrange in future, in connection with all public works to be undertaken in the Crown Colonies and Protectorates with money raised by loan or voted for those purposes, whether guaranteed or not by the Imperial Government, that competitive tenders will be asked for; that contracts will be let on the conditions laid down in the tender, and that in the event of a contractor failing to quote on the conditions laid down negotiations will only be entered into with him on the understanding that retendering will be permitted by all those who originally competed, so that they may have an opportunity of revising their prices, possibly in a downward direction, and have an equal chance of securing the work on like terms; and that, in connection with the plant and material used in such undertaking, wherever it is possible it will be specified that the plant and materials used shall be of British design and manufacture with the view, as far as possible, of employing British labour and enterprise, thus assisting British trade and unemployment in this country?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
401primâ facie400: Since the Armistice the whole battlefield area in France and Flanders has been systematically searched at least six times. Some areas in which the fighting had been particularly heavy were searched as many as 20 times. In the spring of 1920
401primâ facie400The SECRETARY of STATE for WAR (Sir Laming Worthington-Evans)
"There is no wealth but life,"467"I am going to vote for the woman, because she is the least harmful.": From my experience of this House I know that I shall not appeal in vain for an indulgent hearing in addressing this Assembly for the first time. I am sure that hon. Members will be tolerant with me. I feel rather like a new girl at school, but perhaps I may recall what an elector in my own constituency said when asked for which of the three candidates he was going to vote. He said:
"There is no wealth but life,"467"I am going to vote for the woman, because she is the least harmful."Mrs. WINTRINGHAM
: I should want notice of the first part of the hon. Member's question. The money will be allocated as soon as practicable, and, I hope, very shortly.Sir A. MOND
389: The answer to tae first part of the question is in the affirmative. The answer to the second part is that I
389Sir A. MOND
: I could not give an answer to that, but I hope it is the case.Sir A. MOND
: So far as I can do so, having regard to the limitations of the Government programme and the needs of urban areas, I shall be prepared to consider applications for the erection of houses in rural areas where the need for them is established and the existence of serious unemployment in the skilled building trades is proved.Sir A. MOND
: The amount by which the income of a hospital for 1921 exceeds the income for 1920 will be reckoned as new money for the purpose of calculating the grant. In cases where the hospitals of a given area agree to combine for this purpose, their aggregate income can be made the basis for calculating new money. As regards the second part of the question, I understand that King Edward's Fund are proposing to confer with the London hospitals as to the best method of raising their share of the anticipated deficit on the year's working.Sir A. MOND
: I have already given an answer to that. I do not excuse the statement. I said the statement was incorrect. It is admittedly incorrect, and I do not see what more I can say in the matter. I am entirely justified in refusing to take any further action or to give up the great services which this gentleman is rendering to the State, even if he has made some incorrect statement about the right hon. Gentleman.Sir A. MOND
: I have pointed out that the Director-General is acting in an honorary capacity, and is not a civil servant. He is giving his very valuable services for nothing at all in order to assist me to secure economies in housing, and he has been extremely successful in doing so.Sir A. MOND
: I do not consider there is any waste. The foundations of the houses are not taking any harm, and it will be possible to put up the houses at a cheaper rate in a short time.Sir A. MOND
: No suggestions for the use of the site in question have yet been submitted to me, and I do not propose to take any action at present.Sir A. MOND
: I will consider how the suggestion of my hon. Friend can best be carried out.Sir A. MOND
: I think most of the cases that my hon. and gallant Friend has in mind will not come under the purview of the Lord St. Davids' Committee; so far as they do I have very little doubt that the case indicated will be borne in mind, and that public money will preferably be spent on schemes that mature for the benefit of the community rather than the ordinary individual.Sir A. MOND
: If my right hon. Friend reads my answer he will see that I admit, that this statement was made by the Director-General—who has not been in the Department for a considerable time—and that the statement was incorrect. I have admitted that, and I do not see what further action my right hon. Friend asks me to take. I certainly do not propose to take any.Sir A. MOND
386: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. The particular statement of the Director-General of Housing to which my right hon. Friend alludes proved to be incorrect in the light of fuller information afterwards at his disposal. I would, however, observe that the average price for class A houses in approved lump sum tenders submitted in December, 1920, was £823; in March, 1921, £693; in June, 1921, £687; and in September, 1921, £596. The total number of these houses in approved tenders up to March, 1921, was 36,166, and up to September, 1921, 37,942. The policy of limiting construction, accepted by my right hon. Friend before leaving office but subsequently so strongly criticised by him, certainly contributed to bring down prices, but it remains true that one main cause of inflation of prices was his action in approving contracts for a large number of this and other types of houses at very high prices far in advance of the facilities available at the time for construction. I think the statements of the Director-General have been broadly correct, though this particular statement was not so, and I do not pro-
386Sir A. MOND
: I have been asked to answer this question. Relief works are carried out by local authorities under their ordinary powers, and in the absence of express statutory authority, no provisions in regard to betterment can be enforced, but as the hon. and gallant Member is no doubt aware, there are special powers under which, in the case of roads, land may be acquired, where advantageous to the community, in excess of that needed for the actual site of the road. In some cases owners have not only given the land required for a road, but have also contributed to its cost. Land reclamation and drainage are matters within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Agriculture. As already stated, it is proposed to recover the greater part of the cost from the owners of the land affected.Sir A. MOND
373: The Central London District Schools propose to use these huts for hospital and other purposes in connection
373Sir A. MOND
: I have no power to instruct the guardians, but I dill consider the question.Sir A. MOND
: I have already pointed out that I have no power to give instructions. The boards of guardians are by law compelled to take into consideration all sources of income and to exercise their discretion. I have no power to give instructions to the boards of guardians in the direction indicated. I will see, however, whether some arrangement can be made.Sir A. MOND
: In view of the law on the subject, I have no authority to give any such directions as are suggested, but I will see whether it is possible for any arrangement to be made for meeting the difficulty referred to.The MINISTER of HEALTH (Sir Alfred Mond)
: As far as you were allowed.Lieut.-Colonel Sir A. WARREN
: I am dealing in the most sympathetic way possible with these cases, but it does not appear to me that this is a case of the kind indicated. Whitaker did not join up until two months after he left the dockyard. He then joined the Labour Corps and served in that only until September.Commander EYRES-MONSELL
: Inquiries have been made and the following are the facts of the case: Whitaker entered the dockyard in March, 1907, and was discharged in February, 1917, for being absent without leave. In April, 1917, Whitaker joined the Royal Marine Labour Corps and served until the following September; he was re-entered in the dockyard in December, 1917, and was recently discharged owing to reduction of hands. Under the Regulations Whitaker's service, prior to February, 1917, which was terminated by discharge on account of absence without leave, cannot be reckoned for gratuity, and his subsequent service is not sufficient to render him eligible for any such award.Commander EYRES-MONSELL
: I can give the House some figures. The temporary staff at the Admiralty has been reduced from 5,696 to 1,828. The ex-service men during that period have been increased from 732 on 1st July, 1919, to 1,156 on 1st November, 1021. There are only 300 temporary non-service men now employed at the Admiralty, and this number is now in process of considerable reduction. The remainder consists of women employed in non-substitutable posts, such as shorthand typists, and that sort of thing. In the Accountant-General's Department, the largest Department at the Admiralty, about 90 per cent. are ex-service men.Commander EYRES-MONSELL
: The record of the Admiralty with regard to service men is a very good one indeed. These posts provide very lowly-paid work and do not provide work for men.Commander EYRES - MONSELL
: The question of men under notice of dismissal is being considered, and we are dealing with it in the most sympathetic spirit; but these posts are not really work for men at all.Commander EYRES - MONSELL
: The issue of clasps has not yet commenced, and no date can yet be given when the issue will take place. As soon as a decision is reached, due notice will be given of the procedure to be adopted.Commander EYRES-MONSELL
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. In his statement made on 18th August, 1921, on the subject of the Imperial Conference, the Prime Minister explained that the Dominions were consulting their respective Parliaments as regards the various proposals which they had under consideration for naval cooperation. I am unable at present to add anything to that statement in connection with the four new capital ships.Commander EYRES-MONSELL
: The details of these new scales have now been settled and they will be promulgated almost immediately.Commander EYRES-MONSELL
: I said "almost immediately." I will let my hon. Friend have a copy as soon as I can.Commander EYRES-MONSELL
: The number of posts which will be filled by writing assistants in the future complements of the Admiralty will be greater than the number of women who have passed or qualified as writing assistants, and who are at present serving. They are not, therefore, being retained to the detriment of ex-service men, and it is not proposed to replace any of them.The CIVIL LORD of the ADMIRALTY (Commander Eyres-Monsell)
32.  asked the Minister of Health if he proposes to publish at intervals, for the information of the taxpayers who will find the money, the exact use made, under legislation passed this Session, of the large sums voted for the relief of unemployment or the stimulation of trade?Mr. L. LYLE
: Can the right hon. Gentleman tell us how much of this money will be distributed this year; is he aware that this grant was made to meet an immediate necessity; and can he say that the money will not be spread over, at any rate, two years?Mr. LYLE
31. 388 asked the Minister of Health whether, under the terms of his Departmental Paper 1,402, giving the terms of appointment of the Voluntary Hospitals Commission, the announcement that after the first emergency grant further grants will be only made against fresh money raised by the hospitals, means that they cannot reckon, for the purposes of obtaining assistance, any ordinary revenue which they may receive in the current years; and whether, since this condition would prejudicially affect the poorer hospitals, which have practically tapped all sources of income and which now see, at all events for the
388Mr. L. LYLE
: Thank you very much. You will understand my anxiety.Sir C. KINLOCH-COOKE
: Can the hon. and gallant Gentleman give me the exact date when the statement will be issued, because he will remember that I have asked this question over and over again for the last 12 months?Sir C. KINLOCH-COOKE
12.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty whether he is now in a position to make any statement concerning the scales of the pre-War disability pensioners?Sir C. KINLOCH-COOKE
11.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty whether his attention was called to the statement made by the Prime Minister of New Zealand and appearing in the Press of this country on 14th October, to the effect that the four new capital ships, the cost of which all parts of the Empire were contributing, would be British Empire ships; and can he say what proportions of the cost of these four new capital ships is being paid by the different parts of the Empire?Sir C. KINLOCH-COOKE
47.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the large number of non-service temporary staff, he will cancel the notices of dismissals to ex-service men in accordance with pledges given and in accordance with the recommendations of the Lytton Committee until such time as the spirit of the Report is carried out by His Majesty's Government?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Yes, that is true. The State, in my judgment, is behaving very generously, and quite rightly, but I have consistently refused to mix a patient who has been certified with one who has not.Mr. MACPHERSON
376: That is not so. If a service patient—by that I mean a patient whose mental illness is due to service—has been sent, with the consent
376Mr. MACPHERSON
: No, I think not. I should be glad if any individual Member of this House would visit any institutions under my control. I have taken the greatest interest myself in this particular branch, and, so far, I must honestly confess to the House that the complaints I have received are always on unsubstantial grounds, and I would beg the House to remember the unfortunate condition of the mind of the man who makes the complaint. Very often he thinks he has a grievance when, in reality, he has none.Mr. MACPHERSON
375: I have been asked to reply. The Lunacy Law requires that every person who is certified as insane shall be sent to an institution approved by the Board of Control; save that under certain conditions a single patient may be placed in a private house not specifically licensed for the reception of lunatics. Treatment allowances are granted, and the necessary cost of treatment defrayed by my Department in respect of all certified patients whose insanity is due to war service, and who are receiving treatment in institutions, whether public or private, which have been approved by the Board of Control and by the Ministry.375The MINISTER of PENSIONS (Mr. Macpherson)
: Certainly that is so.Mr. MACPHERSON
: I shall always be glad to hear of any particular case. I know the case that my hon. and gallant Friend has got in mind. If I may say so, he is frankly obsessed by this particular case. The house in question is a small building containing about 16 people, with very little garden and no workshops of any sort or kind. Here I am asked to send patients of mine to mix with certified lunatics. I refuse to do so.Mr. MACPHERSON
472471470per capita469468: In the first place, I desire to congratulate the hon. Member for Louth, who has just spoken, upon the excellence of the speech to which we have all listened with the greatest interest. With her width of practical knowledge and wealth of experience we
472471470per capita469468Sir PARK GOFF
: I should like to point out that the productive condition of all European countries has fallen very much more since this War than it fell after the Napoleonic Wars.Sir P. MAGNUS
: May I ask whether the private institutions approved by the Board of Control are not also periodically inspected by the Department?Sir P. MAGNUS
: It is not new.Sir R. HORNE
: What my hon. and gallant Friend the Secretary of State for Air said was that no specific case had been made out against the Government. Nor has it.Sir R. HORNE
: No.Sir R. HORNE
: No, no!Sir R. HORNE
456: It is the net amount, as my hon. Friend will see in a moment. If you take the first six months of the year as compared with last year, in 1921 we got £63,000,000 in the gross, against £117,000,000 in 1920; but our repayments during those first six months were £37,000,000, as against £6,000,000 for 1920. We only estimated the repayments for the whole year at £53,000,000. It is obvious, from what has happened in the first six months of the year with regard to re-
456Sir R. HORNE
: The position is that, with regard to certain block payments which Germany has made, Belgium obtains a share, and the principal share. Belgium, as the House will remember, was granted by the other Allies a priority in respect of payments from Germany, and in respect of that priority she obtains the amount which remains after the British claim for the expense of the Army of Occupation is satisfied. The money has been paid, and most of it is in the United Kingdom now. It is merely a question of the ratification by the French Government of the agreement at which the Finance Minister of France arrived with the Finance Ministers of the other Allies.Sir R. HORNE
: That is a large question, which has often been debated in the House before, and I do not think it would really be helping in the present case if I spent any time in discussing it. This is really, I take it, an occasion upon which the House wishes to know where we stand at the present time.Sir R. HORNE
: The amount I should expect under this head would be roughly between £30,000,000 and £40,000,000. I would only remark that I have a confident expectation that that agreement will be ratified, because I cannot imagine any sound reason why the conclusion at which this meeting arrived should not receive the confirmation of the French Cabinet. I am going confidently upon the assumption that the agreement will be met. Under these conditions, as I have said, I do not expect that there will be much, if any, reduction on Miscellaneous Receipts for the year.Sir R. HORNE
: £25,000,000 interest for each half-year at present rates of exchange. Of course that is on the assumption that the postponed interest is not treated as interest due, but is in some way funded with the debt. Whether any operation of that kind can be made or not one cannot yet say. I hope this remark about the debt we owe to America will not be made the occasion of any discussion of inter-allied indebtedness. It does not conduce to the friendliness of feeling between the great Commonwealth of the United States and ourselves to discuss that matter at all at present. Any careful reader of the Press of America will discover how much harm has already been done by the suggestions which have been made. Our attitude towards our debt must be, as it always has been, that what we owe we shall be prepared to pay, that we shall meet our obligations, however difficult the circumstances may be at the time.Sir R. HORNE
: It may be in the region of £70,000,000 to £80,000,000. Looking at the whole matter, I have come to the conclusion that the estimated revenue will fail to realise almost any portion of the figure of £80,000,000 which I kept in a compartment by itself in my explanation. It will fail to realise almost any portion of that for the purpose of meeting the Sinking Fund obligations. I do not think that it will fail by more than £80,000,000; my expectation is that it will fail by rather less, but not by any appreciable sum less.Sir R. HORNE
: My right hon. Friend always voted for all these expenditures.Sir R. HORNE
: That is not quite fair. The right hon. Gentleman will remember that on the Budget statement it was said that certain contingencies were not provided for—the cost of the coal strike, the cast of railway agreements, and the War settlements. It was said that extra Estimates must come which could not be exactly estimated at that time.Sir R. HORNE
450: This Bill, to which I now ask the House to give a Second Reading, deals for the greater part with certain Votes which have been recently granted by the House in connection with unemployment. The schemes which the Government have proposed require certain moneys to be voted, and these are the moneys which are mainly dealt with in the present Bill. There are those who take the view that the money which has been devoted to these purposes is not sufficient. There are others, on the contrary, who hold the view that the grant of these additional moneys imposes upon the State a strain which its finances at the moment can scarcely bear. We have tried to steer a course dictated alike by humanity and prudence. On the one hand, we desired to relieve distress to the utmost of our power, to provide means of work for people who, through no fault of their own, are out of employment, and to do something to re-start the commerce and trade of our country.450The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER (Sir Robert Horne)
453452: What has happened with regard to that £97,000,000 surplus? It has nearly disappeared, as expected, under the contingencies which I have already described. The coal stoppage cost us very considerable sums of money, the railway agreement also cost us very heavy charges, and there have been other Supplementary Estimates required which have eaten into the £97,000,000. Indeed, the actual Votes which have been necessitated have exceeded by something approximating to £20,000,000 the sum of £97,000,000 to which I have referred, or, I ought to say, they exceed it by nearly £20,000,000, when you add what has been granted by the House for affording employment. Taking all -the Supplementary Votes together, including the £8,000,000
453452Sir R. HORNE
: My right hon. Friend has a different figure in mind.Sir R. HORNE
38.  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland how many breaches of the truce have occurred since the unsigned terms were agreed upon; how many persons have been kidnapped; and how many persons have been punished for breaches of the truce?Sir W. DAVISON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman answer my question whether in these very serious offences of kidnapping anyone has been punished?Sir W. DAVISON
: Why cannot this work, which will give very much needed employment to the unemployed, be commenced at once?Sir W. DAVISON
: Is the hon. and gallant Gentleman aware that there is no less than 1,000,000 cubic feet of space still occupied by these temporary buildings, and surely that is enough for the War Staff?Sir W. DAVISON
: I have been asked to answer this question. Certain types of measuring and test glasses, whether graduated or ungraduated, are included in the list of dutiable articles falling under the heading of Scientific Glassware. Glass jugs are not scientific glassware, and consequently are not dutiable. As regards the last part of the question, I am not aware that any duty has been levied on small tumblers.Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
395: The figures do not, as the hon. Member supposes, refer to the same account. The figure of £20,500,000 in the Controller's Report is the amount of debts and interest thereupon paid to British creditors up to the 31st March last, and these payments, as stated in the article in the "Board of Trade Journal" to which the hon. Member refers, have now reached £29,000,000. The sum of
395The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the BOARD of TRADE (Sir W. Mitchell-Thomson)
9.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty whether the issue of clasps to war medals for the Fleet has yet commenced; if not, when a start will be made; whether applications will have to be made for the issue of clasps; and how are officers and men to know to what clasps they are entitled?Viscount CURZON
: Are the Admiralty carrying out in the spirit as well as in the letter the Lytton Report?Captain Viscount CURZON
17.  asked the Minister of Labour whether men of the Navy, Army, Air Force, Royal Irish Constabulary, and auxiliaries disabled in action or on active service in Ireland are entitled to enter Government training establishments?Viscount CURZON
: If I understand the right hon. Gentleman aright, does his answer, in effect, debar a man injured on active service during operations in Ireland against the rebel forces? I know a case where a man has been refused training. Cannot such men get anything?Viscount CURZON
liaison: If the Sinn Fein liaisonRear-Admiral Sir R. HALL
: In saying that some doubt exists, is it wished to convey the impression that this was done by officers of the Crown?Sir R. HALL
: Does this protection consist in protecting the individual summoned, or does it take the form of action against those who are summoning, which is the best protection?Sir R. HALL
: I am aware of the activities of French aviation, as stated by my hon. and gallant Friend, and it is obvious that the French Government fully realises the importance of aeronautics, both service and civil. But I do not think it is possible, in the form of question and answer, usefully to compare the French, or German, and British positions in this matter. A full statement of the Government's policy in regard to civil aviation has recently been made, and I cannot, at present, add anything to what was then said. If my hon. and gallant Friend wants something further and more comprehensive, I must ask him to wait until the Air Estimates are introduced next Session.The SECRETARY of STATE for AIR (Captain Guest)
: That arises out of the next question on the Paper.Captain GUEST
26.  asked the Prime Minister the approximate number of men which it is estimated will be found employment for six days per week for three months and for six months, respectively, for every £1,000,000 granted to local authorities by the Government to assist them in combating unemployment, and the total amount of money which the Government is prepared to allocate for these services during the next six months?Mr. T. THOMSON
: Does the right hon. Gentleman mean to say that, with 1,750,000 unemployed, he has no idea as to the number of men who will be employed by the various schemes which the Government have submitted?Mr. THOMSON
: Can the right hot. Gentleman give the comparative figures of the assistance given to starving Russia and assistance given to military enterprises against Russia?Captain BENN
35.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the Washington Conference, he will state if there exists any military or naval agreement, understanding, or arrangement of any sort between this country and Japan not arising out of the terms of the Anglo-Japanese alliance, but supplemental thereto?Major BARNES
: On a point of Order. May I say that a clerical error in this question makes it somewhat ridiculous, and I do not wish to put it in that form.Mr. HERBERT
: By your leave, Sir.Mr. HERBERT
: We know nothing about it.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Is this attitude in regard to Hungary considered consistent with the Hungarian right to self-determination?Sir H. COWAN
: "Yes" and "No!"HON. MEMBERS
: My hon. and gallant Friend's suggestion does not appear to be practicable, but may I be permitted to express the hope that hon. Members, when asking supplementary questions, will show consideration for the rights of their colleagues?Mr. CHAMBERLAIN (Leader of the House)
: No, Sir, I have not perceived there was any limit to the supplementary questioning.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Is it not a fact that only some of them receive half-coupons nowadays?Dr. MURRAY
: Would the right hon. Gentleman define the rights of the back-benchers in this House?Rear-Admiral Sir R. HALL
: That seems to me to be a gratuitously, offensive suggestion. I would beg the House to observe, in the first place, that they have placed a limit on the time to be occupied by questions; and, secondly, there has been placed, with general assent, a limit on the number of questions which may appear on the Paper to be asked on any one day. The object of that arrangement is to spread the time available in a reasonable way amongst the different Members of the House. If supplementary questions grow in number, as the number of questions on the Paper are limited, the purpose for which the limitation of questions on the Paper was undertaken is defeated; and every additional supplementary question and every supplementary question put without necessity is a reduction of the rights of other hon. Members.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I dissent from the premise of the hon. Member, and I do not think that his remedy would be a good one. If we gave another half-an-hour, I am convinced that in a comparatively short time exactly the same difficulty would arise.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: That seems to me to be an unnecessary supplementary question, because I am not proposing any alteration.Mr. CHAMIBERLAIN
597: Detailed comparison between the remuneration of permanent civil servants and of staff temporarily employed on the basis of the duties
597Mr. YOUNG
: Generally.Mr. YOUNG
: My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer regrets that he is not yet in a position to make any statement on this question.Mr. YOUNG
: As the answer is rather long, my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposes to circulate it in the OFFICIAL REPORT.Mr. YOUNG
: The Royal Commission commenced its sittings in the latter part of August and has held six meetings. I understand that at those meetings the Commission has examined a number of typical cases for the purpose of determining general principles with a view to dealing with individual cases in the light of such general principles. The number of claims already received to date is 43,000.Mr. YOUNG
: I am afraid I cannot answer that question without inquiry.Mr. YOUNG
: The amount of the duty levied during the period in question on goods consigned from France was £1,563.Mr. YOUNG
: Is the Act achieving the purpose for which it was introduced and passed by this House?Captain BENN
: With regard to the first and last parts of the question, I have nothing to add to the written reply which I gave to the first of the three questions which the hon. and gallant Member asked me on this subject on the 9th instant. The reply to the second part of the question is in the negative, the third part does not therefore arise.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: That consideration is well in the mind of the Government.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I should like to say that if there be any implication that the Treasury or the Government interfere in any respect with the discretion of the governing body of this or any other university it is wholly erroneous.Mr. YOUNG
: Is it not the fact that if the Government, as a Government, minded its own business, there would be no confusion between politics and economics?Mr. HOPKINSON
: The programme of lectures at Manchester University is a question for decision by the governing body alone. The cost of such lectures is borne by the State only in so far as block grants are made annually from public funds, on the recommendation of the University Grants Committee, to this university, as to other similar institutions in the United Kingdom.Mr. YOUNG
58.  asked the Home Secretary whether he will give the police instructions to insist on slow driving in regard to motor-driven vehicles at the extremely dangerous corners of Belgrave Square?Sir J. D. REES
: Will the right hon. Gentleman invite the Commissioner to cross the corners of the square? Is he aware there has been recently a serious accident there, and that hon. Members who live in the locality—and there are several—cannot come to this House without risking their lives?Sir J. D. REES
: In Belgrave Square only?Sir J. D. REES
: Is not that sufficient to justify what I ask for? Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that there may be accidents among people who keep their affairs to themselves and do not tell the police?Sir J. D. REES
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. As regards the second, the Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs has categorically denied that there is any truth in this suggestion, and has assured His Majesty's Ambassador at Rome that His Majesty's Government will be kept informed of everything that passes at Angora.Mr. HARMSWORTH
613: His Majesty's Government have no other information beyond a statement, originating in Athens, which is reproduced in this morning's Press. They have on many occasions reminded the French Government of their obligations towards the minorities in Cilicia, and have very recently pointed out to them that the safeguards afforded by the Franklin-Bouillon Agreement do not appear adequately to satisfy these obligations. The reply of the French Government to these representations has not yet been received. It may be noted that the
613Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I should like to make certain of that.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I am afraid I cannot add anything to the answer I have already given.Mr. HARMSWORTH
Lieut.-Colonel George Schuster, C.B.E., M.C., Chief Assistant to the Organiser of International Credit Scheme of the League of Nations.614Sir William Plender, G.B.E.Sir Robert A. Kindersley, G.B.E. (Chairman), President of the National Savings Association and ex-Chairman of the National Savings Committee.
Lieut.-Colonel George Schuster, C.B.E., M.C., Chief Assistant to the Organiser of International Credit Scheme of the League of Nations.614Sir William Plender, G.B.E.Sir Robert A. Kindersley, G.B.E. (Chairman), President of the National Savings Association and ex-Chairman of the National Savings Committee.: Yes, Sir. I am glad to be able to announce that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer has now received the acceptance of the gentlemen whom he asked to serve and that the Committee will accordingly be composed as follows:
Lieut.-Colonel George Schuster, C.B.E., M.C., Chief Assistant to the Organiser of International Credit Scheme of the League of Nations.614Sir William Plender, G.B.E.Sir Robert A. Kindersley, G.B.E. (Chairman), President of the National Savings Association and ex-Chairman of the National Savings Committee.
Lieut.-Colonel George Schuster, C.B.E., M.C., Chief Assistant to the Organiser of International Credit Scheme of the League of Nations.614Sir William Plender, G.B.E.Sir Robert A. Kindersley, G.B.E. (Chairman), President of the National Savings Association and ex-Chairman of the National Savings Committee.Mr. YOUNG
: On that point of Order. My hon. and gallant Friend was raising the question as to what advance had been made by the Government in respect of the advances made by the Russian Government. The discussion of that question does really come within the scope of this Debate, because there is a sum of £100,000 in this Bill in connection with certain medical stores, and in the discussion on that Vote the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs referred to the advance that had been made by the Russian Government as material to that discussion.Major BARNES
: Forgive me, I was not paying any attention to what the hon. and gallant Member was saying.Mr. HOPKINSON
: I have listened with the greatest possible pleasure to the speeches on this Bill. I think it a great pity that more interest has not been taken in this Debate. The Debate afforded a splendid opportunity for Members to put their views before the Chancellor of the Exchequer in such a way as possibly to induce him to take a different outlook in the coming year in connection with his Budget. A Session like this, when almost by accident we have such a discussion, is one which gives us a privilege of which every Member ought to take advantage. Yesterday the Chancellor of the Exchequer gave us a review of the receipts for the present year up to date, and of the possibilities at the end of the year. The right hon. Gentleman also took advantage of the opportunity to say that his idea of the moneys that have been received was rather that those moneys were to some extent the result of wealth amongst the community that they were not expected to possess. My right hon. Friend referred to that particularly when he spoke of Customs and Excise and with regard to the Income Tax yield, which he said so far had exceeded last year. I think he took rather a different view of the reason why this Income Tax has returned so much up to the present, from what is actually the case, and also that he took a different view as to the reason why there was an increasing supply of money in the City, from what is the case. We all know perfectly well that the reason why there is such a large Income Tax paid up to date and the reason why so much may be paid up to the end of the year is that it is the Income Tax of the three years of greatest prosperity which the country has seen, the average of those three years. That is the reason why we have such a large Income Tax payment this year. If the Income Tax received this year had been paid out of the profits of this year we might have some hope.Lieut.-Colonel Sir W. ALLEN
740: I do not wish to interrupt the right hon. Gentleman, but I should like to ask a question. Is the
740Mr. J. JONES
1.  asked the Minister of Pensions the number of ex-service men at present confined in pauper lunatic asylums; the number of men so confined whose dependants receive treatment allowances; and the amount of such allowances?Captain LOSEBY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman explain the very large increase in the number of men in lunatic asylums since January of this year—some 35 per cent. or more?Captain LOSEBY
: Have any recommendations been made by the Geddes Committee relating to the Air Ministry, and, if so, what are they?Captain W. BENN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman see to it that these wounded and disabled policemen get the same training allowance and other allowances as men disabled in the Great War?Colonel Sir C. YATE
: It is not a question of the trade. It is a question of the leaders of public opinion seeing to the proper education of the children. That is what is required to be satisfied. Will the right hon. Gentleman take steps to see that that is done?Sir C. YATE
55.  asked the Home Secretary whether his attention has been called to resolutions framed by various associations throughout the country urging that a board of censors of cinema films be appointed by Government; and, if so, what action does he propose to take in the matter, as the present board of voluntary censors of cinematograph films established by the trade has no statutory powers?Sir C. YATE
54.  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department how many persons have been arrested, prosecuted, or, if aliens, deported during the past year for seditious or revolutionary acts or speeches?Sir C. YATE
: If the Hungarians ask for a King, is there any objection to them having one?Sir C. YATE
33. 593 asked the Prime Minister if the attention of the Govern-
593Sir C. YATE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman also look into the case of the High Court judge who was compelled to retire because he did not feel able to meet the man he had sentenced to transportation for life as a Minister of the Province?Sir C. YATE
38.  asked the Prime Minister whether proper pressure is being brought to bear upon Hungary to insist on the ineligibility for the throne of Hungary of all the Hapsburg aspirants, including Joseph and Albrecht, as well as Karl; and what measure of disbandment of the Hungarian army and irregulars is being enforced by either the Supreme Council or the Little Entente?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether the reported recognition of Admiral Horthey given in yesterday's papers is real or not?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Has there been any real need to change since the right hon. Gentleman made his speech in this House advocating that assistance be given to Russia?Colonel WEDGWOOD
39.  asked the Prime Minister whether the change in policy of His Majesty's Government, respecting assistance to Russia, was due to representations from the French Government or from Russian emigrés in this country?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Does the hon. Gentleman realise the need for an early decision in view of the suspension of all development work?Major GLYN
50. 602 asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the Government have been able to come to any decision in regard to the present financial position of the Sudan; whether an engineer was sent out at the instance of the Government to report upon the condition and probable cost of completing the Gezireh Dam; whether that engineer has now returned and has made his report; and whether, in view of
602Major GLYN
: Is it usual for officers in His Majesty's Forces to communicate direct to Members of Parliament, instead of direct to their Commander-in-Chief?Colonel Sir J. GREIG
701: There are one or two remarks I wish to make about the very sympathetic speech of the hon. Member for East Renfrewshire (Mr. Johnstone), who, I am sorry to see, has quitted the House. There was a great deal in his speech about the necessity and the expediency of taking steps to review the whole question of unemployment and to insure against it. The question has advanced very much in the last four or five years, and one of the most remarkable instances of change of opinion was the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for East Renfrewshire, for I remember that when the Insurance Act was first introduced eight or nine years ago, for putting insurance upon a sound basis and insurance against unemployment was tentatively dealt with in that Act, there was a considerable movement, certainly in Scotland and I think also in England, amongst employers to oppose that Measure altogether. Deputations came up to those of us who were supporting the Bill, which was fought through the House under the aegis of the right hon. Member for Paisley (Mr. Asquith), but was committed to the charge of the present Prime Minister. I happen to have the duty imposed upon me of receiving a deputation from the employers in Scotland, who opposed that Bill tooth and nail. At the head of that deputation was my Friend the hon. Member for East Renfrewshire, who put forward views against the whole of that Measure.701Colonel Sir J. GREIG
25. 591 asked the Prime Minister whether, apart from the Anglo-Japanese alliance, as published, the British delegates at the Washington Conference will be affected by any treaty, agreement, or alliance affecting the Far East the terms of which have not been published but to which Great Britain is a party; and whether, in view of the
591Sir WALTER de FRECE
: How do you know you will be here?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Has there not been a change?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: May I ask the Prime Minister whether the recent step forward of the Russian Government towards acknowledging its debts has been met by any corresponding advance by His Majesty's Government, and, if so, what?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
590: On a point of Order. When I put a question to the Prime Minister, which you allow,
590Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: There were pledges after the War!Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Does not that show that the whole of this political police force is absolutely unnecessary?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
65.  asked the Home Secretary if he can now state the annual present cost of the special branch of Scotland Yard recently under the control of Sir Basil Thomson; whether this includes expenditure from Secret Service funds and, if so, what proportion is so expended; what was the cost of this special branch last year; what salary and allowances did Sir Basil Thomson receive as head of the branch; and what pension is he receiving?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Is it the fact that this expenditure of £70,000 has only resulted in the deportation of four revolutionary aliens in the last year, and, in the interests of economy, could not this branch be cut down?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Will the hon. and gallant Gentleman see that so far as he has power no lecturer shall be penalised for his political views?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: How is it that this Order only appeared on the Paper yesterday and that there is no opportunity of a humble Address being presented or any other step taken, in view of the Parliamentary business coming to an end this evening, to discuss the matter further?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: If the right hon. Gentleman has seen the Order, is he aware that it is a perfectly simple document, which would have occupied no time in its preparation, and is it not very unfair to hon. Members who wish to discuss the matter?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: "Ours!"Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: On both sides?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: I was not discussing the advisability of calling it up, but merely the length that it was embodied and the consequent expenditure. I have made my protest, and I want to make it clear that in voting against the Third Reading of this Bill I do not wish to limit the Government's activities in relieving unemployment, but to register my protest against certain aspects of the Government policy which have led to this great expenditure. We are presented with a Bill which includes a great many items which are altogether unjustified, and I hope hon. Members who realise the sorry state of our finances will support me in registering a protest by voting against the Third Reading of the Bill.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
689: I apologise for supposing that the hon. Gentleman was here for the purpose of legislation and looking after the interests of his constituency. I might have known that the expenditure of a mere £7,000,000 would not be of great interest to him. We now are in the position of men who, after a night of orgy, are faced with a very long bill, but I hope, like sensible men who, in the morning, see things in a different light and view matters in a more composed atmosphere, we shall examine the items of this very heavy bill. We know that we have not the money to pay the bill; we have to borrow money to do that; we have to pawn something. We have to raise money on the country's credit in order to pay the restaurant keeper who presents our bill on this occasion. The bill is a needlessly long one. In case other unfortunate events occur and necessitate the calling up of the reserve forces, I think the House should take the opportunity of warning the Government that they must in future consider the cost a little more and not be so stampeded by wild panic and fright. The calling up of that Defence Force gave employment to a number of people who otherwise would have been without it.
689Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
688: I imagine I should be in order in discussing the amount of money, apart from the merits of calling out these forces, and in showing that the Government are open to censure for keeping them embodied for such a length of time and thus involving such an enormous expenditure. I would like to make a protest against the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer who pointed out that we should be forced to borrow money owing to the serious state of the finances of the country, and to suggest that we might now address ourselves with more composure to the consideration of this great expenditure and bring some measure of censure to bear on the Home Office, the Admiralty, and the officers responsible for keeping these forces embodied very much longer than they were required. There was some small degree of disorder and certainly a great deal of unrest in the early days of that coal stoppage—I do not want to rake up old quarrels, though I should very much like to express my opinion as to the responsibility for the whole trouble—but after the first few days, when hon. Members will undoubtedly say that the Government were fully justified in calling out every available disciplined man, and when the dispute was dragging on
688Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Should I be in order in discussing the public declarations of the Government as to the way the Bill is to be administered and as to whether these facilities are to be extended to Russia?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: I apologise for my lack of experience in discussing a Consolidated Fund Bill of a limited nature. I think this is the first time in this Parliament that we have had such a Bill. There is a sum of money in the Schedule for the maintenance of the Defence Force and the Naval Reserves who were called out at the time of the coal stoppage. Shall I be in order in discussing that expenditure?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Then I will immediately leave that subjest, which I do with great regret, but I think I am in order in referring to another matter which was raised at Question Time and which directly deals with the question of trade facilities. Why have the Government taken no steps either to meet the approaches of the Russian Government with regard to the recognition of the Russian debt? During the Second and Third Readings of the Trade Facilities Bill this matter was raised, and the Parliamentary Secretary to the Overseas Trade Department stated that the Bill would not apply to Russia and that export credits would not be extended to Russia because the Russian Government had refused to recognise her obligations.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Yes, there is in the Schedule of the Bill the expenditure for the calling out of the Defence Force and for the embodiment of the armed forces at the time of the coal dispute. We were then told by the Government that was necessary because of certain revolutionary agitations by aliens.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: I do not want in any way to dispute your ruling, but might I raise the question of the inadequate steps taken by the Government to deal.with the alleged agitation, thus causing the unrest., which we were told was the justification for an expenditure of over £7,000,000.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: I do not know if the Government intend to offer any further explanation on the Third Reading of this Bill, but, as apparently they have no remarks to make until some speeches are made from this side, perhaps I may ask for some little information as to certain items of expenditure. I refer, in particular, to the extraordinary statement made by the Home Secretary, that the Special Branch of the police, which was referred to a little time ago, costs a sum of £70,000 per annum, and that the net result of this expenditure on this secret political police has been to deport exactly four aliens of revolutionary tendencies.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
576: Should not those policemen who were
576Lieut. - Colonel ARCHER - SHEE
12.  asked the Chief Secretary whether the police barracks at Kesh, County Fermanagh, were raided on the evening of 4th November by a number of armed men; whether they took away rifles bombs, and ammunition; and whether hLieut.-Colonel ARCHER - SHEE
liaison: Were representations made to the liaisonLieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
13. : asked the Chief Secretary whether the workhouse at Ballyshannon has been occupied by the Irish republican army; whether an armed sentry was posted at the gate; whether he can inform the House for what purpose the workhouse has been so occupied; and what steps he has taken in the matter?Lieut. - Colonel ARCHER - SHEE
: With no results?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Is not the right hon. Gentleman aware that we are not conducting negotiations with a foreign country, but with a country for which, before the whole world, we have made ourselves responsible; therefore this House should certainly have the right to consider the matter?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that Members of this House are already on half rations in relation to supplementary questions?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman defer any alteration until after the General Election?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
42.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he is yet in a position to say what action has been decided with regard to the inclusion in the Whitley Council, dealing with the Civil Service, of some non-official members?Lieut. - Colonel POWNALL
40.  asked the Prime Minister if His Majesty's Government intends to abolish both the Air Ministry and the Air Force as a separate service?Mr. RAPER
: Is it not the fact that the control exercised by the hon. Member for the Scotland Division of Liverpool (Mr. O'Connor) and his assistants is entirely satisfactory to the trade, and has the full confidence of the public?Mr. RAPER
: May I have a reply to my question?Mr. RAPER
585: May I ask my right hon. Friend, who, as we all know, has the
585Mr. RAPER
21. viâ asked the Secretary of State for Air if he is aware that at the beginning of last month France had six international air routes in operation; that next year France proposes to create air connections between France and her colonial possessions, communication between Corsica and Tunis being carried out by a seaplane service, and from Marseilles or Toulon to Algiers by airship, as well as aeroplane connections between Oran and Morocco, and between Toulouse and Morocco viâMr. RAPER
41. 595 asked the Lori Privy Seal whether, to husband Parliamentary time, steps can be taken to ration supplementary questions next Session in the same manner as starred questions, so that any Member asking, say,
595Major KELLEY
: Is it not a fact that at the present moment the Russian Bolsheviks have a college at Teheran teaching Indian rebels how to conquer India?Sir CHARLES TOWNSHEND
34. 580 asked the Prime Minister whether his attention has
580Sir C. TOWNSHEND
30.  asked the Prime Minister if it is the determination of the Government to introduce and carry a Bill to reform the Second Chamber during the coming Session; and, if so, will such a Measure take precedence of all other legislation?Major BOYD-CARPENTER
73.  asked the hon. Member for the Pollok Division of Glasgow, as representing the First Commissioner of Works, whether, in view of the widespread unemployment, he will consider the desirability of repairing forthwith the pathways of the outer circle of Regent's Park?Major BARNETT
63. 609 asked the Home Secretary whether, having regard to the death of a woman named Maud Moore in the cells at West Ham police court, he will reconsider the desirability of grant-
609Major BARNETT
: Will the right hon. Gentleman undertake to spend a night at the West Ham Court?Major BARNETT
: I am sorry if such is the case, but I was merely dealing with the speech made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the same Bill yesterday.Sir W. ALLEN
: So far as I can understand, the money which it is proposed to expend on unemployment is money received from Customs and Excise and Income Tax, and I though perhaps we were at liberty to discuss the receipts of those moneys and the reasons for their receipt. However, I accept your ruling, and I will turn to another subject debated yesterday; that is, to the reasons why we have unemployment and the necessity for the expenditure of this £5,500,000. The hon. Member for Dartford (Mr. Mills) dealt, in a speech the other day, with the possibility of getting Russia going, so that we might have less unemployment here. No one would appreciate that more than I would, because I know a large staple industry, the welfare of which goes with the welfare of Russia and the Russian people. The difficulty in that trade now is in reference to the raw material which comes from Russia. If Russia were thoroughly going again, it would be a very different story for us. Where we used to receive 700,000 tons of flax from Russia some years ago, we received last year—Sir W. ALLEN
703: So far as I understand the Bill, there is in it £5,500,000 for unemployment, and I thought, perhaps, we were entitled to discuss why unemployment has taken place, and why it is necessary to incur that expenditure. I will content myself with saying, so far as that is concerned, that we are very anxious to assist the Government to avoid
703Sir W. ALLEN
: Does the right hon. Gentleman realise that every one of these prosecutions costs these firms something like and is that reasonable in view of the fact that a man can jump on his wife for £1?Mr. ATKEY
66.  asked the Home Secretary how many prosecutions have taken place in Staffordshire in respect of alleged offences by motor manufacturers and dealers against the registration Regulations affecting general identification marks, and how many of the same have been dismissed; and whether the activity of the Staffordshire police in this respect arises from the instructions of his Department?Mr. ATKEY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that these prosecutions have been mainly directed against responsible firms, and why is this cumbrous method adopted to enforce Regulations of this kind?Mr. ATKEY
: Are we to understand that this system which is being adopted in Staffordshire is going to be carried out throughout the country?Mr. ATKEY
700699: I listened with very great pleasure to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Central Bristol, and I think he did a great service in reminding the House that this Bill, in reference to the large sum granted for unemployment., does mark a new departure in State policy. It is quite true that there are implicit in this policy consequences to which we must give very grave consideration, but except in the sense of pure legalism I was unable to follow him when he said that, if Labour accepts this policy and all that it implies, Labour must face the possibility ultimately of labour conscription. I dc not think that that follows at all. With reference to the question of the claim of Labour that the rate of wages should he the trade union rate of wages, it really comes down to what we mean by an economic rate of wages, which is quite as confusing and as much a matter of words as the economic price at which goods are produced. The fact is, that the economic wage at a given time is the highest wage that can be paid as between a willing worker and a willing employer. During the last few years we have lived, unfortunately, in such an utterly unreal world economically that we have lost that standard of value to which we shall have to return if we are to regain the markets of the world and if our trade is to be put upon a truly sound basis again.700699Mr. LYLE-SAMUEL
: Is it not the fact that in every case the Court imposed the highest sentence within their power?Mr. LYLE-SAMUEL
: Is there any truth in the statement that the holding of certain political views disqualifies any one holding a lectureship, the cost of which is borne by the State?Mr. LYLE-SAMUEL
8.  asked the Chief Secretary if during the truce the ban on English products continues to the detriment of our trade and the increase of unemployment; and if the question of raising the ban is being considered by the Conference?Mr. LYLE - SAMUEL
: Will the right hon. Gentleman consider the desirability of suggesting during the Conference an extension of the truce to an economic truce as well as a military truce?Mr. LYLE-SAMUEL
: Did he do it over the telephone, as is customary?Mr. NEWBOULD
: Will the hon. Gentleman consider it?Mr. WILLIAMS
: Would the hon. Gentleman represent to the French Government that, whatever is to be done eventually, nothing of this hurried character, like 20 days' or any such short notice to people to leave, should be done at present?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
695694: The hon. and learned Member who has just spoken has referred to trade union wages as if those wages were any wages that the trade unions cared to demand, whereas the trade union rate of wages means the rate of wages agreed to between the trade unions and the employers. If we have authorised the payment of trade union wages, it is in that sense, and it is not necessarily a rate fixed as the result of a strike. It may have been fixed as the result of a lock-out. As long as there is agreement between the two sides, it is the trade union rate, and more often, let us hope, it will be a rate fixed by friendly negotiation. I agree heartily with the appeal made by the hon. and learned Gentleman for conciliatory action on the part of Labour, and I would supplement that by an appeal for conciliatory action on the part of the great chiefs of industry, the great employers. For it is only by conciliatory action on the part of, and co-operation between, both sides that we can hope for prosperity in this country. I did not intend to speak on this matter, but it was the very significant and, in some respects, admirable words of my hon. and learned Friend which induced me to refer to it.695694Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: I have no information with regard to the alleged incident.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
56. 605 asked the Home Secretary if he is aware of the discontent caused amongst that section of the workers who are being thrown out of employment by those foreigners who obtain admission into this country through the leakages of the Aliens Restriction Act by describing themselves as tourists, and, when settled, obtaining employment at the expense of our own unemployed workers, and others who gain admission by describing themselves as followers of occupations that are not exempt under the Aliens Restriction Act, and then, having gained admission, change their occupations to those that are exempt; if he is aware of the bitterness against all foreigners which this unfair competition is causing during the present period of abnormal unemployment; and whether, having regard to the present number of our own unemployed, which is approximately 2,000,000, and the fact that during the next five years openings for permanent employment must be found for at least another 1,000,000 workers owing to the growth of the population and the need
605Mr. JESSON
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. I cannot state the order of precedence of Government business next year, but this Measure will be among the first to be taken.The PRIME MINISTER
: There is no unpublished treaty, agreement, or alliance which will affect the British delegates at the Washington Conference.The PRIME MINISTER
: The answer is in the negative.The PRIME MINISTER
: Undoubtedly Parliament will have to be consulted in any important change in our relations with Egypt. Anything done will be with the sanction of Parliament; but it is quite impossible for the Foreign Secretary to conduct negotiations if every suggestion put forward is to be submitted to Parliament.The PRIME MINISTER
: There is no change in the policy of His Majesty's Government respecting the Russian famine.The PRIME MINISTER
: As a matter of fact assistance is being given, and my recollection is that at the end of the speech I said that one of the most effective ways of assisting Russia was for her to pay her debts and so establish confidence in the trading countries.The PRIME MINISTER
: No such decision has been taken by His Majesty's Government.The PRIME MINISTER
: I do not think we know.The PRIME MINISTER
: There are difficulties in preserving peace in that quarter of the world; and there are many things which must be taken into account. That is why the Powers are intervening. I am afraid if Hungary took a certain course it might mean war, and that is the last thing that the world wants now.The PRIME MINISTER
594: The Allied Powers pointed out to the Hungarian Government that the law depriving the Hapsburg Dynasty of the rights of succession would not apparently exclude the possibility of the election of a Hapsburg as King at some future date. The Hungarian Government have now given an undertaking to conform to the Declaration of the Allied Powers of February, 1920, to the effect that the restoration of any member of the Hapsburg Dynasty could not be tolerated. They have further declared that they will not proceed to a solution of the question of the Hungarian throne without previous consultation with the Allied Powers and without obtaining their consent.594The PRIME MINISTER
: I am sorry that I am not in a position to answer this question. I have not had time to go into it. I will circulate an answer in the course of the next 24 hours.The PRIME MINISTER
: I have nothing to add to the reply which I gave to my hon. Friend the Member for Twickenham on the 27th ultimo.The PRIME MINISTER
: I have always said so. No doubt the House of Commons has the full right to consider every change that is suggested.The PRIME MINISTER
: I have not seen the statement made by my right hon. Friend, nor do I think it desirable that I should say more than I did last Monday week at this stage of negotiations which I still hope may prove successful.The PRIME MINISTER
: I view with grave concern the breaches of the truce that have occurred in Ireland. They are at once taken up through the machinery established for the purpose, and my colleagues and I are satisfied that the representatives of Sinn Fein with whom we are negotiating are doing their best to secure the observance of the terms of the truce.The PRIME MINISTER
: Certainly; my hon. and learned Friend can rest assured that the interests both of serving members and of pension ex-members of the Irish Police Forces will be fully safeguarded in any settlement which may be arrived at.The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
584: The negotiations can make no difference in so far as this Order is concerned. There is no proposition that the powers of the Northern Parliament should be taken away, and, therefore, before those powers are functioning, it is essential that there should be an Order of this kind, and it is very unfair to the Northern Parliament that its Executive should be paralysed for lack of powers of this kind.
584The PRIME MINISTER
: The reasons for adopting this course were explained by me very fully in the course of Debate in this House on Monday, 31st October, in reply to my hon. Friend the Member for South Antrim. If the hon. Member will look at Section 69 of the Act, he will see that express provision is made for the machinery of Orders in Council to accomplish the purposes referred to in that Section.The PRIME MINISTER
: I think my hon. Friend is quite wrong. He is referring to a totally different Order. I know, as a matter of fact, that the Order was not ready at the end of last week. I had an opportunity of discussing it. It was prepared at the end of last week, and it was adopted at the Council yesterday.The PRIME MINISTER
: I assume that the Order in Council was only drafted, and when it was ready it was placed on the Table of the House. That was only yesterday.The PRIME MINISTER
: I only want to point out that that is not the question of which I received notice. I will answer the question of which I received notice.The PRIME MINISTER
: That is not the question of which I have received notice.The PRIME MINISTER
: The Miens Order requires that all aliens coming to the United Kingdom to take up employment must be in possession of a Ministry of Labour permit, and aliens who come here for that purpose without such a permit are refused leave to land. It is possible that a few aliens may succeed in evading this requirement, but I am satisfied that there is no such widespread evasion as is suggested in the hon. Member's question, and that aliens are not entering this country in large numbers to compete with British labour. Any alien who makes a false statement or false representation to an immigration officer is liable to prosecution under the Order; but it is not always possible to secure sufficient evidence to justify proceedings being taken. I do not think that this difficulty could be removed by any amendment of the Aliens Order.Mr. SHORTT
: In answer to my hon. Friend's supplementary question I would say that, out of 314 aliens deported since the beginning of the present year for a variety of reasons, four were deported on account of activities which may be classed as revolutionary. No doubt others among them, though deported for such offences as landing without leave, etc., were in fact revolutionaries, and others of the same class are excluded by refusing them permission to land.Mr. SHORTT
: I have said that the matter really rests with the local authorities who have the necessary powers.Mr. SHORTT
: The police have general instructions to check dangerous driving, particularly at places where special danger exists. The case of Belgrave Square has been gone into, and the Commissioner does not consider any further instructions in regard to it are needed.Mr. SHORTT
: Yes.Mr. SHORTT
: The pay, allowances, travelling and other expenses of the police officers and clerical staff employed in the branch referred to cost approximately £70,000 per annum, and the corresponding figure for the last financial year was about the same with the addition of the police bonus. Sir Basil Thomson received a salary of £2,000, and his pension has been fixed at £1,120, to commence on the 1st December, when he retires and ceases to draw salary. The above figures do not include expenditure from secret service funds, as to which, in accordance with the recognised practice, I cannot give information.Mr. SHORTT
: No weekly reports were signed by him.Mr. SHORTT
: I have made inquiries. I understand that in the last 12 months there have been 14 slight collisions and one rather serious.Mr. SHORTT
: Certainly no report.Mr. SHORTT
: My attention has not been called to any increase in the number of fatal accidents due to unprotected hatchways. The number of such accidents during the present year has not yet been separately tabulated, but the total number of fatal accidents in docks is less than half that for the corresponding period of 1920. As stated in the recently published Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories, greatly increased attention has been given to docks, and I may add that four prosecutions for unprotected hatchways or openings have already been taken this year.Mr. SHORTT
: I have already said that my attention has not been called to any increased number of accidents, but increased attention has been paid to this source of danger. Four prosecutions have actually been instituted, and no doubt each of those cases involved complaints such as my hon. Friend refers to.Mr. SHORTT
608: Yes, Sir. The weekly report in question was sent to me for
608Mr. SHORTT
604: A few resolutions on the subject have been sent to me, but I am not aware that there is any strong public feeling in favour of the Government undertaking the censorship of films. Local authorities are given by the existing law considerable powers for the regulation of the cinema exhibitions in their districts, and though the present system of control is not without its difficulties, some local authorities do exercise, I believe, a close control over the films exhibited in their areas. It is true that the Board of Film Censors have no statutory
604Mr. SHORTT
: I cannot give exact figures, but more than 30 persons have been proceeded against for speeches inciting to violence, either by the Director of Public Prosecutions or by the police acting on his advice. There is another question on the Paper dealing with the subject of deportations.The SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Mr. Shortt)
: I must ask for notice of that question.Mr. SHORTT
: I do not know about the Ministry of Transport, but if anyone wishes to see me I shall be pleased to see them.Mr. SHORTT
: No, Sir, his resignation was given verbally. He does not deny that he gave it verbally.Mr. SHORTT
: I am informed by the Chief Constable that 104 prosecutions have been ordered (83 by the county council as registration authority and 21 by the Chief Constable). Fourteen have been dismissed. The answer to the last part of the question is in the negative.Mr. SHORTT
611: I understand that all those who have been prosecuted have
611Mr. SHORTT
: Not unless it is necessary.Mr. SHORTT
: My attention has been drawn to this case. I am considering the suggestion in the latter part of the question.Mr. SHORTT
: Early in September, 1918, immediately after General Macready's appointment as Commissioner, Major Parsons tendered his resignation. The Commissioner asked Major Parsons to remain for a short time at his post until he (the Commissioner) had time to look round, and afterwards by letters of the 4th and 12th October he intimated his acceptance of the resignation. It is not necessary to announce the resignation of a Chief Constable in Police Orders, nor is it the usual practice to do so except in notifying the appointment of his successor. In this case the post remained vacant for several months, and the duties and conditions attaching to it had been materially altered when Superintendent Morgan was appointed in March, 1919. For this reason the words, "in place of Major Parsons," did not appear in the notification of the appointment.Mr. SHORTT
: I am quite aware than; Major Parsons has denied that he resigned, but his denial is based on the construction of letters, and I have gone into it myself very carefully, and am satisfied that he did resign.Mr. SHORTT
: No, Sir. The matter is still under consideration.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Hilton Young)
: I am afraid I cannot estimate the time.Mr. YOUNG
707706705704: I wish to express in a few words my sincere pleasure at the very considerable advance we have made in providing for the unemployed. Much has been said during the last few days as to the inadequacy of the measures taken, and I agree with a good deal of what has been said in that direction. For instance, I would much rather have seen—and in fact I did vote for—the payment of 10s. a week instead of 5s. for wives. I think 10s. would have been a small enough sum to give a workman to tide him over the coming winter. Also, I would have preferred that the money for the supplementary benefits under the Insurance Act should have been taken from ordinary taxation instead of from the workmen and the employer, because this is special taxation out of which neither those employers nor those employed who are taxed can possibly get anything. I believe, however, they will willingly pay the tax that has been imposed; and on the whole I am glad that we have had a Session of Parliament which has discussed unemployment with more sympathy and more knowledge than has been shown in any Session in my 17 years' experience of the House. I remember the time, 15 or 16 years ago, when the unemployed were surging round our doors. Up to that time nothing had been done for the unemployed, except by
707706705704Mr. G. BARNES
: Is it not a fact that this man, entirely through a wound received in the War, has now to wear irons on his leg, and how can a man support a wife and child on 7s. 6d. a week?Captain BOWYER
2. 572 asked the Minister of Pensions whether he will inquire into the case of Mr. H. J. Lawrence, late Labour Corps (Ministry of Pensions,
572Captain BOWYER
: During the last three weeks, when we realised the position of the agricultural labourers, was not an application made for their admission under the insurance scheme, or that something should be done for them?Mr. G. EDWARDS
729728727: After listening to speeches which have ranged over the whole earth and beneath the earth and above the earth, it is very gratifying to hear my right hon. Friend bringing us back to actualities. I congratulate him, not only upon the matter of his speech, but upon the courage which inspired it. I have delivered speeches of that character
729728727Mr. G. ROBERTS
 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he is now in a position to inform the House of the composition of the Advisory Committee to be set up under Clause 1 of the Trade Facilities Bill?(by Private Notice)Mr. GERSHOM STEWART
5. 573 asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether Michael Sweetman, a Protestant, farmer, residing near Skibbereen, was murdered last February; whether later all the stock was driven off the farm by the Sinn Fein forces; whether, on 21st July, 10 days after the truce began, a quantity of the furniture was stolen from the house; whether, at the end of August, a large body of men, who said they were acting for the Irish Republic, seized and threshed all the corn on the farm and sold it and kept the proceeds; whether, subsequently, Mrs. Sweetman and her son were served with a notice to leave the district within 48 hours and left in consequence; whether, within the last
573Mr. STEWART
: May I recall to your memory that there was a footnote to the Supplementary Estimate of £5,500,000, showing that the sum granted to His Majesty was partly for the purpose of the Trade Facilities Bill, which was to grant credits between this country and other countries.Sir GODFREY COLLINS
: I do not think the suggestion contained in the latter question is correct. With regard to the first, I must ask for notice.Sir G. HEWART
dossiers,: I have been asked to reply. The present position is that Italy, at the end of July last, delivered the dossiers,The ATTORNEY - GENERAL (Sir Gordon Hewart)
: This is a most deplorable case. I understand there is some question as to whether Mrs. Sweetman and her son were in fact ordered out of the country by Sinn Fein, but otherwise the facts appear to be as stated. So far as I am aware, no complaint was made to the police, and the circumstances did not come to the knowledge of the authorities until after the event. The fullest investigation is being made, and as soon as the facts are available the Government will make it their business to see that Mrs. Sweetman receives such reparation as is possible for what she has suffered.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: This is a flagrant and persistent breach of the truce, in which representations to the local Sinn Fein liaison officials have proved ineffective. The matter has now been taken up with the Chief Liaison Officer in Dublin, who has been pressed for full reparation.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The police report that this robbery was carried out by two men, one of whom was armed with a revolver. The police are pursuing their enquiries.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: A number of persons have been arrested. The House will remember the case of the kidnapping of Mr. Hunt the other day in Belfast, for which three men are now under arrest, and will stand their trial in the usual way.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative; as regards the latter part, the police have the matter in hand.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I was not aware that there were 50 armed men, and this is the first time I have heard that any women were treated disgracefully there.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: As regards the first part of the question, I would refer the hon. Member to the reply given by my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister to a similar question by the hon. Member for Macclesfield on the 24th October. In regard to the last part, it is obviously impossible for me to give any information regarding particular questions discussed at the Conference.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Immediately this occurred.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The answer to the first three parts of the question is in the affirmative. Immediately news of the raid was received at county headquarters, the police turned out in force and searched the district. The result of this search and of subsequent inquiries supports the conclusion that the perpetrators of the raid came from a distance. The perpetrators have not yet been identified, nor have any of the missing arms been recovered. Inquiries are being pursued.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: In reference to wounded policemen or soldiers, they have the first claim on the money under my control intercepted from the grants to local authorities. I know of no case where a wounded soldier or policeman has not had a cash advance on the amount of his claim.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: As regards the first part of the question, I would refer the hon. and learned Member to the full reply which I gave to him on this subject on the 19th April last. The pay of the police was increased as from 1st April, 1919, and consequently pensions awarded in respect of retirement on or after that date are in general based on higher rates of pay than pensions awarded in respect of retirement before that date. Certain changes in the pension scale, apart from the pay on which it is based, have also become operative subsequent to the 1st April, 1919. The men referred to in the last part of the question who were obliged in consequence of non-accidental injury to retire before 1st April, 1919, having served for a period which would have entitled them to retire voluntarily have, in fact, been awarded pensions greater than they would have received had they retired voluntarily on the completion of the same period of service.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: In these cases the men get awards for malicious injuries. They get cash payments on account of the awards they receive from the County Court Judges, in addition to their pensions.Sir H. GREENWOOD
liaison: With this result that the Sinn Fein liaisonSir H. GREENWOOD
: Some doubt exists as to who did perpetrate this outrage on the police barracks at Kesh. The Sinn Fein officials have given assistance to the Crown in endeavouring to find the robbers of the barracks and of these arms.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I would refer the hon. and gallant Member to the reply given to a question on this subject by the hon. Member for Oxford on Monday last, to which at present there is nothing to add.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: They are not.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative; as regards the latter part, ample protection is given to any person in Ireland who refuses to pay an illegal demand.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: We have a very large armed police force and a much larger military force prepared to assist any person who resists these demands.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: There was a Court of that kind on the day on which the Conference assembled in London. I had to use my discretion as to whether I would break up that Court by force on the day the Conference assembled, or submit the matter to the Sinn Fein representatives with a view to the discontinuance of the Court. I chose the latter course as the better one, and it has been successful. This Court in Dublin does not sit.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The hon. Member is under a misapprehension. The inspector and other officials of the Local Government Board discharge statutory duties under the direction of Government, and they are in no sense officers of the local authorities. The latter part of the question does not, therefore, arise.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Following my usual custom, I wired the Noble Lord's question, as I should any other hon. Member's question, to the Commander-in-Chief himself.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I only received notice of this question at 11.30 this morning, and am sorry that I have not been able in the time available to obtain the details necessary to enable me to deal with the points raised. The latter part of the question involves purely military considerations. The Commander-in-Chief of the Army in Ireland is fully aware of the situation in that country.Sir H. GREENWOOD
714713volte-face712: During the various stages of the passage of this Bill, I have been much exercised in my mind as to how, in the interests of my constituents, I could vote £8,000,000 of the taxpayers' money for the benefit of unemployment. I will say at once that, with the Government scheme for dealing with unemployment, I am in thorough agreement. I think it was by far, the best system that could be devised, to put the charge partly on the employers who are carrying on industry, partly on the men who are working in industry, and partly on the State, and I only regret that the finances of the country have been such as necessarily to limit the extent to which the Government have gone. The difficulty I have had is this: In my constituency the only industry that we really have is agriculture. I have a large number of men at work in agriculture. The others, apart from a few builders and carpenters, are woodmen and private servants, chauffeurs, and a few gamekeepers and that sort of people, but the bulk are the men who work on the fields. They are excluded from the Bill, and deliberately excluded by the promoters of the Bill. No answer has been given as to why they are excluded. I am very glad that the Minister of Labour is here, because I heard him give what he pretended was an answer, and that was that they chose not to come under the Unemployment Insurance Act. That is no answer, because there was no need for them to come under that Act. Under the provisions of the Government's Agriculture Act there was no chance of unemployment in the agricultural industry, but the Government themselves have created this unemployment. We were protected, and we were provided for, and there was no need in the case of the agricultural workmen to come under the Insurance Act, and I charge the Government, of which
714713volte-face712Mr. CAUTLEY
: I forgot, Mr. Deputy-Speaker, for the moment, and therefore I got out of order. I thought what I was saying was in order, seeing I was dealing with one of the remedies, as I thought, for meeting the question of unemployment and providing means of work. I have, however, apparently carried my argument further than I ought to have done, though I think I have carried it as far as I wished to do. I will end by expressing the hope that what I have said will commend itself to the right hon. Gentleman, for if we could get a proper reduction in retail prices wages could be so reduced on the farms without reducing real wages as would enable the farmers to find employment for most of the rural unemployed.Mr. CAUTLEY
: He was protected by the Agriculture Act.Mr. CAUTLEY
: Is it not the fact that if any commitments are made on this subject without first consulting Parliament, it will be extremely difficult for His Majesty's Government to go back on any such commitments, and may we not ask that no drastic change shall take place until the matter has been placed before this House, as Parliament has never given its sanction to any complete change?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
29.  asked the, Prime Minister whether, having regard to the fact that this House has never discussed the desirability of a change in the Constitution of Egypt or given its sanction to any drastic change by vote or otherwise, he will give an undertaking that no commitments are made until Parliament has registered its decision that such changes should be considered?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Not yours!Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
588: Has this House ever expressed itself as not satisfied with
588Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: What is the use of extending a truce which is only being kept on one side?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Can the right hon. Gentleman inform the House that any of these breakers of the truce have been brought to trial, and any of them punished? [HON. MEMBERS: "Answer!"]Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
ad hocad hoc690: Yesterday the Chancellor of the Exchequer laid before the House the position in regard to the finances of the country, which everybody agreed was extremely serious. I am not going to discuss that to-day. I desire to draw attention to one fact which has been overlooked, and which I hope will not remain overlooked, but will be remedied in the near future, in regard to legislation for unemployment. We are to have the Royal Assent given this afternoon to five separate Measures dealing with unemployment. Some of those Measures deal with far-reaching economic events, including the Act which will deal with the extension of credits, and the guaranteeing of loans and interest to large business firms who undertake work which will find employment for the people who are out of employment. The cost of these Measures will run into millions—I think between £50,000,000 and £60,000,000. We are doing this because, not only the Government, but the House have again
ad hocad hoc690Mr. HOGGE
: Were these weekly reports signed by Sir Joseph Byrne?Sir J. REMNANT
61.  asked the Home Secretary whether it has been the custom for the Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Special Intelligence Branch of New Scotland Yard to prepare a weekly Report for the use of the Government; and whether it was furnished to the Home Secretary for communication to the Cabinet or whether it was sent to the Chief Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police?Sir J. REMNANT
: Nor any report?Sir J. REMNANT
: For three weeks the House has been debating the question of unemployment, and although we have been limited to the Government's proposals, I think the Minister of Labour himself will be the first to admit that all sections of the House have contributed something to the Debate.Mr. J. H. THOMAS
726725724723722: No greater mistake could be made than to suppose that any particular party is alone interested in the question of the unemployed. The Debates during the past three weeks, although there will naturally be differences of opinion, have clearly demonstrated that Members in all parts of the House, representing all interests and parties, are genuinely anxious to do something for this most terrible of all household calamities. On the other hand, I think there will be a recognition that the unemployment problem we are dealing with at this moment is unique. We are dealing not only with a larger volume of unemployment but with more classes of unemployment than we have ever previously been called upon to deal with. The curious thing is that they constitute in the main the largest industries. In all previous unemployed debtes and discussions on unemployment we always included the agricultural industry. The argument used to be that although the economic conditions were bad there was a sort of permanency of employment in the agricultural industry which practically ruled out agriculture as being a matter generally connected with unemployment. The curious thing is that not only is this not so to-day, but all the evidence tends to show that there is more real hardship in the agricultural districts than has ever been experienced before, and therefore we have now drawn in a large new class.726725724723722Mr. THOMAS
711: I know that sometimes it is paid twice a week, but generally speaking it is paid once a week, on a Friday. Why not, in cases where you have 2,000 or 3,000 men to be paid on a Friday, arrange matters so that, instead of paying them all on the one day, the 3,000 should be divided into three sections paid respectively on Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday? That would prevent them having to wait and stand about for such a long time. There is nothing more humiliating or degrading to a man than to be compelled to stand shivering in the rain and cold observed of all the passers-by. It takes all the manhood out of him and does not tend to make him a better workman to be so exposed to the gaze of the public and looked upon with pitying eyes. I am sure I only need to bring these suggestions to the Minister's notice. They are quite practicable and can be applied to meet the difficulties of the position. I am not, as I said before, asking for pity or for sympathy, but only suggesting a practical method of dealing with the conditions and saving trouble to these men, without either adding to the cost or making the machinery more cumbersome.711Mr. WIGNALL
710: I have been considering the time that is occupied in the waiting process in relation to the severity of the weather, and I know I am going to be up against the anti-waste people in my suggestion. I know I shall receive objections on the ground that extra cost will be incurred. Well, the money is provided as a fixed sum, and we cannot add to it. Therefore, any suggestion of mine is not likely to lead to increased cost. The Minister of Labour has pointed out to us in various answers to questions and other statements that he has been cutting into his staff and reducing it at a tremendous pace, and he received, "Hear, hears," and cheers from all parts of the House. I am wicked enough to wish that those who cheered the cutting down process had to stand in the queues outside the Employment Exchanges and wait for the donation. They would not shout then; they would be more prepared to curse the people who were responsible. Now we have to face the fact that this large number of people have to be dealt with, and in every district of every large industrial centre there are many public halls, chapels, and places of worship with schoolrooms attached. Surely they could be used for this humane purpose. I think an effort should be made to deal with these people in batches and put them in shelter and under cover rather than leave them standing shivering in the cold. If that does not meet with the Minister's approval there is another suggestion I
710Mr. WIGNALL
709708: I am sure we have listened with a great deal of interest and pleasure to the speeches, especially the speech of the hon. Member for the Gorbals Division (Mr. G. Barnes). I might find his argument fairly good were it not for the fact that my experience so far has been one of finding that so much has been tried and so much has failed that I am almost despondent as to ultimate success. As to the hon. Member for Central Bristol (Mr. Inskip), I could not follow his argument. I could not connect a demand for relief work with conscription of labour. There his arguments seemed to fail completely, and I could not follow his logic on the question of unemployment. There was one point which did appeal to me in the speech of the hon. Member for Gorbals, and it was the reference to each industry bearing its own burden. I have been a great believer and a great advocate of making unemployment one of the standing charges which all industries should have to meet. We had a very notable example, during the War period in the Excess Profits Duty, of how this might be done. The law provided there that over and above a certain limit of
709708Mr. WIGNALL
: Has not the right hon. Gentleman had reports submitted to him showing an increased number of fatal accidents arising from this cause; has he not had complaints of the total disregard of the dock Regulations with regard to hatchways being protected, and has he not been applied to to take action against certain shipowners for this very offence of allowing hatchways to be unprotected?Mr. WIGNALL
60. 607 asked the Home Secretary if his attention has been called to the increased number of fatal accidents
607Mr. WIGNALL
: The pathways to which the hon. Member presumably refers are maintained by the Crown Estate Paving Commissioners out of rates levied on Crown houses within the park. I understand that, owing to the exceptional drought, the surface has become loose, but that as soon as there is sufficient rain the paths will be solidified by rolling.Lieut.-Colonel Sir J. GILMOUR (for the First Commissioner of Works)
: From agricultural areas?Mr. MILLS
: In view of the fact that you have included miners in the insurance scheme, is it not possible, after a legitimate waiting period, to include the agricultural labourers who are faced with certain unemployment during the next 12 months?Mr. MILLS
: If it is possible that a totally defeated country, Germany, can maintain a Labour Exchange in which they search every possible application for employment, and see if they can put the people into legitimate employment, that ought, at least, to be done here. There are thousands of men in this country to-day who are slipping into disease for lack of adequate repair of their footwear. If the right hon. Gentleman will look at the system of administration in Berlin, he will find that there every section of the unemployed are not only housed, but they are fed, at bare cost of commodities and cooking. Men and women who are capable of repairing boots or clothes are taken from the ranks of the unemployed. If you could remove from the unemployment list even 10 men or women in each area, in order to prevent the boots of the unemployed from falling apart, you would be doing something to keep the efficiency of the people up to the normal. I have given a letter to the right hon. Gentleman, to which I hoped he would have referred.Mr. MILLS
: I hope the right hon. Gentleman will give it consideration. It is a letter from a member of the Engineers' Society, of which I am a member, who is informed by the society of which he is a member that because he has been unemployed for 12 months, because he has not been able to pay the contribution that should have been paid by himself, along with that of the employer and the State, he is disentitled to any form of benefit, and is excluded from all participation under the Health Insurance Act. You cannot point to any trade union in the British Isles which would treat its own members in that way, even in the worst periods of its financial adversity.Mr. MILLS
27.  asked the Prime Minister whether his attention has been called to the published declaration of the Russian Government to recognise the debts of the Tsarist Government; whether he is able to state what is now the policy of His Majesty's Government in relation to granting credits for the relief of the famine-stricken population and area in Russia; and what is its present attitude to this urgent matter, having in mind its relation to the international claims of humanity and to the equally pressing question of distress caused in the country by unemployment?Mr. MILLS
: Have there not been various promises by British statesmen since the 'Eighties?Mr. MILLS
: Is it not the fact, too, that any such agreement must be ratified by the common people?Mr. MILLS
23.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he is aware that Mr. Young, the chief inspector under the Ministry of the Interior, was present at an interview on 13th October between the Mudir of Assiut, Badreddin Bey, the Controller of Public Security, and a number of members of the Committee of Reception to Zaghloul Pasha, where it was stated that the police commandant had just declared in the presence of the President and five other judges of the Assiut Native Court, and of others, that there were armed men in the house of Mahfouz Pasha and in other places near the landing slip of the steamer on which Zaghloul Pasha was at the time; that he had also announced that other armed bands would arrive by the evening train, and that these men were all to be used to prevent Zaghloul Pasha from landing, to attack him in the streets if they failed to prevent his landing, and to attack the reception tent if he reached it: that the police commandant, on being asked why the police did not prevent this, replied that the Government wished it, and that Badreddin Bey had accused him of being a Zaghloulist because he protested; and will he say whether Mr. Young made any protest against this action?Mr. MILLS
: On a point of Order. May I submit that this question concerns the whole question of the freedom of movement of an individual in the country of Egypt, and, as such, a supplementary question, in my opinion, is in order.Mr. MILLS
: Yes, at Assiut.Mr. SWAN
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that Zaghloul Pasha is deliberately prevented from visiting various points of welcome in Egypt, and will not the Government consider the advisability of giving him scope to visit any part where the public require him to attend, without menacing him and all his people?Mr. SWAN
: On a point of Order. That supplementary question arises out of the question on the Paper.Mr. SWAN
: Will the hon. Gentleman consider the advisability of changing this policy, and is he aware that Zaghloul Pasha, who has the whole of Egyptian opinion behind him—[HON. MEMBERS: "No!")—Mr. SWAN
: Is the Prime Minister aware, before any Treaty of Alliance, based on good will, can be arrived at with the Egyptian people, that we can no more bring that alliance about by disregarding the chosen leader of the Egyptians about a Treaty of Alliance—[HON. MEMBERS: "Order!"]—I expect I am in the hands of the Speaker.Mr. SWAN
719718717716: These £5,500,000 in the Bill, which is the Government policy, may be considered one of the most humane acts that have ever been adopted in our history. However humane and however good, though, the step the Government have embarked upon to deal with the situation of unemployment, we feel quite sure that it is utterly inadequate to meet the needs of the number of men and women and their dependants who are out of work to-day in the various parts of the country. Like the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, I have in my constituency a large number of agricultural workers out of work, and there is no provision in this Bill for them. The only people who can come to their assistance are the local authorities, and what steps are being taken are not much good to help the local people to help those who are looking to them for help. So far as the mining and other industries are concerned, we believe before the House meets again the fund established will have become exhausted. We have larger numbers of miners out of work than perhaps in any other industry; in fact, the unemployment there is unparalleled in the history of the industry. Nothing in this Bill is likely to ease the situation for a very long time. I sympathise with the Minister of Labour who is in charge of the Bill. We all know how generous he has been and ready to help, so far as his powers allow, and to allay the irritation and the other unpleasant factors that our people have to face. We all appreciate his efforts to assist us, but his difficulty in the near
719718717716Mr. SWAN
: A Royal Commission is expected shortly. The sitting, therefore, will be suspended until it is announced. I shall then cause the bells to be rung, and resume the Chair.Mr. SPEAKER
7. Dundee Corporation Order Confirmation Act, 1921.6. Perth Corporation (Waterworks, etc.) Order Confirmation Act, 1921.5. Local Authorities (Financial Provisions) Act, 1921.4. National Health Insurance (Prolongation of Insurance) Act, 1921.3. Trade Facilities Act, 1921.2. Poor Law Emergency Provisions (Scotland) Act, 1921.1. Appropriation (No. 2) Act, 1921.
7. Dundee Corporation Order Confirmation Act, 1921.6. Perth Corporation (Waterworks, etc.) Order Confirmation Act, 1921.5. Local Authorities (Financial Provisions) Act, 1921.4. National Health Insurance (Prolongation of Insurance) Act, 1921.3. Trade Facilities Act, 1921.2. Poor Law Emergency Provisions (Scotland) Act, 1921.1. Appropriation (No. 2) Act, 1921.: I have to inform the House that the House has been to the House of Peers, where a Commission under the Great Seal was read authorising the Royal Assent to:
7. Dundee Corporation Order Confirmation Act, 1921.6. Perth Corporation (Waterworks, etc.) Order Confirmation Act, 1921.5. Local Authorities (Financial Provisions) Act, 1921.4. National Health Insurance (Prolongation of Insurance) Act, 1921.3. Trade Facilities Act, 1921.2. Poor Law Emergency Provisions (Scotland) Act, 1921.1. Appropriation (No. 2) Act, 1921.
7. Dundee Corporation Order Confirmation Act, 1921.6. Perth Corporation (Waterworks, etc.) Order Confirmation Act, 1921.5. Local Authorities (Financial Provisions) Act, 1921.4. National Health Insurance (Prolongation of Insurance) Act, 1921.3. Trade Facilities Act, 1921.2. Poor Law Emergency Provisions (Scotland) Act, 1921.1. Appropriation (No. 2) Act, 1921.(standing in. the Clerk's place at the Table)Mr. SPEAKER
: I have further to acquaint the House that the Lord High Chancellor, being one of the High Commissioners, delivered His Majesty's Most Gracious speech to both Houses of Parliament, in pursuance of His Majesty's Command, as followeth:Mr. SPEAKER
: That question was put by some of the hon. Member's colleagues, and has been answered.Mr. SPEAKER
: Will the hon. and gallant Member show me where he finds that in these Estimates?Mr. SPEAKER
: It is quite true that at an earlier stage when we were in Committee of Supply a much wider range was allowed on the Vote of £100,000 for medical stores for Russia; but, when we come to the Third Reading of the Bill, we are confined to what is actually in the Bill, and that is the ruling that I have given.Mr. SPEAKER
: There is no mention in this Bill of the Export Credits Scheme. That was done in the Trade Facilities Bill itself.Mr. SPEAKER
686: This is not the ordinary Appropriation Bill which includes the Home Secretary's salary. That was disposed of in August last. This
686Mr. SPEAKER
: That has nothing to do with the police.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. and gallant Member must have forgotten my ruling. I reminded him that the embodiment of this force was discussed, and authorised by the House when it was first proposed, and each time it was continued in the early part of this year.Mr. SPEAKER
: Certainly not as to the merits of it, because that was discussed by the House earlier in the Session and was then approved and disposed of.Mr. SPEAKER
: The Trade Facilities Bill was its own Finance Bill, the Measure being founded on a Money Resolution. That is why it is not covered by this Bill.Mr. SPEAKER
: This is quite a different matter, and does not arise out of the question on the Paper. The hon. Member is now asking quite a separate question.Mr. SPEAKER
: It was clearly stated the other day that Parliament would be consulted.Mr. SPEAKER
: This is merely arguing the question.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member must not make a speech.Mr. SPEAKER
: That does not arise out of the question on the Paper.Mr. SPEAKER
: No. This is about a particular incident.Mr. SPEAKER
: That does not arise out of the question on the Paper.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member is asking a general question.Mr. SPEAKER
: I am afraid that it is my opinion that counts in this matter.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member is giving his opinion.Mr. SPEAKER
: The first words were really preamble. It is the latter part which was the real question.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member is really arguing the matter.Mr. SPEAKER
: That question does not arise.Mr. SPEAKER
: If I allow an hon. Member to ask a supplementary question, it is not an assurance that there will be an answer.Mr. SPEAKER
: Do I understand the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his question?Mr. SPEAKER
: Really, that is a matter which we debated only yesterday.Mr. SPEAKER
: That does not arise out of the question on the paper.Mr. SPEAKER
: That does not arise out of the question on the paper.Mr. SPEAKER
: The fault, if there be one, is on the part of the absent Member. At the same time, as it is one half of the other question, I have no doubt the right hon. Gentleman will answer it.Mr. SPEAKER
596: Will the right hon. Gentleman consider a suggestion which I
596Mr. DEVLIN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the only way in which we can get the real truth is by putting supplementary questions?Mr. DEVLIN
: If that be so, why were these powers withheld so long? Is it not really a fact that there is no one in favour of this Parliament at all, not even the Members of it?Mr. DEVLIN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman consider the desirability, in view of the present condition of the negotiations, of withholding this Order until the House of Commons is really in a position to form a judgment on the result of these negotiations?Mr. DEVLIN
 asked the Prime Minister what explanation he has to offer for placing upon the Table an Order in Council transferring powers to the Northern Parliament of Ireland; whether under Clause 72 of the Government of Ireland Act, 1920, these powers cannot legally be transferred until the two Parliaments of Northern and Southern Ireland are functioning simultaneously, or, failing that, until such time as a substitute form of Government has been set up for the Southern Parliament; and whether, in view of this breach of the Act of 1920, the Order in Council will be withdrawn?(by Private Notice)Mr. DEVLIN
: Is it a fact that the Order was made on 31st October, and was not placed on the Table of the House until last night. Is it fair to Parliament that an Order of this character has been allowed to remain for 10 days and is laid on the Table of the House on the eve of the Prorogation of Parliament, thus preventing hon. Members from exercising their constitutional right of discussing it?Mr. DEVLIN
698697696: The hon. and learned Member for Central Bristol (Mr. Inskip) and the hon. Member for East Edinburgh (Mr. Hogge) have referred to the claim which has been put forward by Labour for the right to work or to maintenance. It is claimed that if work cannot be provided and if private enterprise fails, work should be provided by the State, and if the State cannot provide work for the unemployed, then there is an obligation on the State to provide maintenance. I think that in many respects the views of those who put forward that claim will be entitled to sympathy, but alarm is created in the minds of most moderate people by another claim, that whether a man works or not he should be paid full trade union rates of wages. If that were done there would be no in-
698697696Mr. JOHNSTONE
47.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer what portion of the £14,056 of revenue collected under Part I of the Safeguarding of Industries Act from 1st October to 28th October was paid in respect of goods imported from France?Mr. MOSLEY
: Is it not a fact that the protection afforded by this Bill is in inverse ratio to the necessity for it?Mr. MOSLEY
122.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether the flat-rate duty of 33⅓ per cent. imposed under the Safeguarding of Industries Act has proved as effective in respect of imports from Germany, since the depreciation of the mark to 1,100 to the £, as was anticipated when this Act was passed into Law during a period when the mark stood at 240 to the £; whether he will state the rate of duty now necessary to counteract the bounty on exports derived from the difference between the external and internal value of Germany's currency; and how he proposes under the Act to deal with fluctuations of exchange of this nature such as have occurred in nearly every European country since the passing of the Act?Mr. MOSLEY
: Does the hon. Gentleman then state that the Act is as effective now when the mark is in the neighbourhood of 1,100 to the £ as was anticipated at the passing of the Act when the mark stood at 240 to the £?Mr. MOSLEY
: No, I did not state anything of that kind.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: I have been asked to answer these questions. The imposition of a rate of duty varying with fluctuations in the exchanges was fully considered before the introduction of the Safeguarding of Industries Bill, but proved on examination to present grave difficulties. In view of the shortness of the time during which Part I of the Act has been in operation, and the fact that no Order has as yet been made under Part II, it would obviously be premature for me to express any opinion as to its effect.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: Yes, I am quite satisfied that the Act will prove effective and useful, and it is already doing so. All the difficulties which the hon. Member is presenting now were present to our minds when we introduced the Bill, and it was never suggested that the German exchange was not likely to fluctuate or depreciate, but it was argued and proved that it would be impracticable to have a duty which varied every day of the week with every variation in the market.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME
: Correspondence with the Soviet Government about the recognition of Russia's foreign liabilities was laid on the Table of the House on 3rd November. In answer to the last parts of the question, I can add nothing to what was said by the Prime Minister in the House on 16th August last and on 8th November by the Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs on the Report stage of the Civil Service Supplementary Estimates.Sir P. LLOYD-GREAME (Secretary, Overseas Trade Department)
: Can the right hon. Gentleman give any estimate as to the number of breakages that the truce will endure before it falls to pieces?Mr. RONALD McNEILL
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that this gentleman's house was raided by 50 armed men, and that there were only women present, who were treated in a most disgraceful way?Mr. GWYNNE
17.  asked the Chief Secretary if his attention has been called to the raid upon Oakfield Park, Raphoe, the residence of Mr. C. V. Stoney, D.L.; and what steps are being taken to apprehend the perpetrators of this outrage?Mr. R. GWYNNE
16.  asked the Chief Secretary whether he is in a position to give any information respecting the holding up of a train at Milltown railway station, on the Dublin and South Eastern Railway, on 7th November, by a band of armed men, who plundered the van containing a considerable sum of money?Mr. R. GWYNNE
: In view of the fact that there have been over 500 breaches of the truce in the last three months, will the right hon. Gentleman say how, if these occurrences take place when he has got the delegates over here, he expects them to deliver the goods when the matter is removed from Downing Street to Ireland?Mr. GWYNNE
37.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in view of the repeated violations in spirit and in letter of the terms of the truce agreed upon with the representatives of Sinn Fein, he will obtain adequate guarantees from the Sinn Fein delegates at the conference now proceeding that any agreement arrived at between them and the Government will be adhered to by their followers in Ireland?Mr. GWYNNE
: Are we to understand from the right hon. Gentleman that the Government hold that they have the power to negotiate away part of our territory?Mr. GWYNNE
: With reference to the latter part of the hon. Gentleman's answer, is there any instance of any admonition delivered by any Government to the Turkish Government against their perpetual policy of rapine and massacre being observed?Mr. O'CONNOR
 asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether it is a fact that the Armenians, Greeks, and other Christians in Cilicia have been given twenty days' notice in which to leave the country, which is to be occupied by the Kemalists on the departure of the French; and whether the British Government will not see their way, either by remonstrance or co-operation with the Governments of the Allies, to prevent the carrying out of such articles of the Angora contract, so as to save these people from the alternatives of exile or of massacre?(by Private Notice)Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
693692691: I want to call attention to the new departure which this nation has adopted in regard to the relief of unemployment, and to the consequences which arise from the policy adopted. For a long time past we have heard of the demand which organised labour makes for work or maintenance. This House moved, and I think rightly moved,
693692691Mr. INSKIP
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the interests of the trade and of the public are not identical in this matter?Mr. INSKIP
: Hear, hear.The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
: I have only just got it.Dr. MACNAMARA
: The hon. Member will see that agriculture is excluded from the Act and that an Amendment of the Measure will be required. It is hard luck on these poor people, whom we are all trying to help as far as we can, that the wintry weather should have come on so soon. I can assure my hon. Friend the Member for the Forest of Dean that it will be our duty to see that their requirements are met so far as we can. It will be the duty of the Government Departments, and I am sure of the municipalities, to get ahead with the schemes now in hand with all the expedition possible.Dr. MACNAMARA
738737736735734: It is wholly consistent with our responsibilities to the people that our last word in this Session, as indeed our first, should be devoted to this distressing problem of unemployment and that we should take counsel together, as we have done in these three weeks, in the endeavour to find a remedy and a palliative. I cordially agree that the debates we have had have been most useful and helpful to the Government generally, and particularly to myself as Minister of Labour. I listened with very great interest to the speech of the hon. Member for the Forest of Dean (Mr. Wignall), who called attention to the great hardship of long queues of waiting people outside Employment Exchanges, particularly now that we have had three or four days, and there is a likelihood of the continuance, of very much colder weather than we have experienced for a very long time past, and I fully agree that it is up to us to do all that is possible to reduce that hardship as far
738737736735734Dr. MACNAMARA
: Certainly. The Minister of Agriculture tells me that some 30 schemes of land drainage and improvement have been already submitted to him, and that schemes from drainage hoards are coming in well. The Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Transport informs me that there are several light railway schemes under his consideration. I need not go into the question of the Unemployed Workers' Dependants Fund, which we have been so recently discussing. It is a little supplemental assistance to the unemployed insurance benefit for the wives, and for children under 14 and between 14 and 16 if they have to go to day school. What we hope from it is that during the next six months, or 21 weeks of those six months, 750,000 wives will secure this supplemental assistance over and above the insurance benefit of 5s. a week, and that 1,400,000 children will secure the small sum of 1s. a week.Dr. MACNAMARA
: My hon. Friend does not quite understand the principles of insurance. It will not do for people deliberately to stand aside—Dr. MACNAMARA
: I do not want to pursue the reasons why agricultural labourers were not brought in, but so far as these schemes are concerned, part of our policy is to assist works of land drainage and improvement, forestry, and light railways, and preliminary steps are well advanced in a number of cases. I assure the Noble Lord the Member for Horsham (Earl Winterton) that our main objective is to find work for the unemployed, and that we shall look at the schemes from that point of view.Dr. MACNAMARA
: Hear, hear!Dr. MACNAMARA
: Sometimes twice a week.Dr. MACNAMARA
: I will come on to that. The schemes which have been sent forward, though it is not certain that they will all come within the conditions of the Unemployment Grants Committee, or comply with the Regulations, represent a sum of no less than £6,000,000. I cannot say whether all those schemes will conform to the conditions under which Government assistance will be payable. It is, however, an evidence of the desire of the local authorities to help, who almost invariably are very heavily rated at present, and I desire, as Minister of Labour, to express my gratitude to them for their willingness to come forward again and share with us in this very heavy burden.Dr. MACNAMARA
: And by the hon. and learned Member for East Grinstead (Mr. Cautley).Dr. MACNAMARA
53.  asked the President of the Board of Education if Professor Ramsay Muir, M.A., the prospective Free Trade candidate for Rochdale, is giving lectures in politics at the University of Manchester; whether any of the cost of these lectures will be borne by the State; and, if so, how much?Mr. W. GREENWOOD
: Will they have to wait another seven years?Mr. GRITTEN
600: Can the hon. Gentleman say when the cases will be reached
600Mr. GRITTEN
46.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer when the Royal Commission appointed to investigate the claims for reparation for damage in this country due to enemy action commenced its sittings; how many sittings it has held; how many claims it has examined and has yet to examine; and in how many cases has it advised that compensation should be granted?Mr. GRITTEN
: Ought not all these forms of charity to begin at home?Mr. GRITTEN
: As His Majesty's Government have now had this matter under consideration for over four months, can the hon. Gentleman say when a decision will be arrived at?Mr. GRITTEN
15.  asked the Chief Secretary whether the inspector and other officials of the Local Government Board in Ireland are discharging duties in connection with local authorities who have given their allegiance to Dail Eireann; and, if so, whether he will explain why officers paid from Government funds should work for such authorities?Mr. GRITTEN
: What is the nature of the protection to which the right hon. Gentleman alludes?Mr. GRITTEN
14.  asked the Chief Secretary whether local authorities in Ireland who have refused to recognise the authority of the Crown are demanding payment of rates from persons who refuse to acknowledge the authority of the Irish, republican administration; and what steps he has taken or proposes to take in the matter?Mr. HOWARD GRITTEN
: Is it not a fact that the Corporation of Dublin by its Town Clerk regularly summons people before the Sinn Fein Court in Dublin?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: The right hon. Gentleman, replying to a question by the hon. and gallant Member for the Melton Division (Sir C. Yate), refused to answer a part of it, as to the number of aliens who had been deported, on the ground that the point was raised in another question on the Paper. As that question has not been put, I desire to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman ought not now to answer the whole of my hon. Friend's question?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that representations have been made on this matter to the Ministry of Transport, and has he received notice of those representations; or would he be prepared to receive a deputation himself on the matter?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
6.  asked the Chief Secretary whether his attention has been called to the case of a loyalist farmer in the Kenmare district of County Kerry, who has been raided by Sinn Feiners no fewer than 19 times since the truce, during the course of which raids practically all his cattle, agricultural machinery, and moveable property has been seized by Sinn Fein authorities; and what steps he has taken in this case?Mr. ORMSBY-GORE
: I have been asked to reply to this question. This theft has been reported, and a military inquiry is pending.The SECRETARY of STATE for WAR (Sir Laming Worthington-Evans)
: As regards the amount to be provided by the State for unemployment, I would refer the hon. Member to the Memorandum accompanying the Supplementary Estimate for Civil Services presented to the House on the 19th October. Pending detailed examination of the various schemes submitted or to be submitted by local authorities, I regret that it is impossible to frame an estimate of the number of men for whom employment will be found for every £1,000,000 of Government grant.The MINISTER of HEALTH (Sir Alfred Mond)
: Not at all. There is an estimate in the Memorandum giving certain information on the subject, but the hon. Member wants the figure for every £1,000,000 spent, and that figure cannot be provided.Sir A. MOND
45. 598 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he is now in a position to give the cost to the State of the last British delegation to the League of Nations at Geneva; what is the estimated cost of the League for 1921–22; what share is to be paid by Great Britain and what share by the other members of the League; can he say whether all these shares have been paid and, if not, what steps are being taken to recover the amounts due; what proportion of the total amount is paid to the International Labour Office; what is the salary paid to the chairman, M. Albert
598Sir C. KINLOCH-COOKE
: The hon. Member has again gone outside the Bill. The only money for Russia that is referred to in the Bill is the £100,000 for medical services, and he cannot raise the general question of trade with Russia now.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: There is a difference between the Second Reading and the Third Reading. On the Second Reading hon. Members may argue as to what they think ought to be in the Bill, but on the Third Reading we deal only with what is in the Bill.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
702: The hon. and gallant Member
702Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER (Sir E. Cornwall)
: I have not called the hon. Gentleman to order so far, but he is now inviting hon. Members who succeed to follow him in his argument. I trust he will come back to the question before the House.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER
: Has any time been suggested in which these debts should be paid?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: May it not prove very difficult to regain our ascendancy in the air if the rumour that the Air Ministry is to be done away with prove correct?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: This case was only brought to my notice this morning, as my hon. Friend knows. I will look into it personally.Mr. MACPHERSON
: This man is not receiving treatment for the disability arising from the gunshot wound, for which he is being compensated at the rate mentioned. Treatment was provided in advance as a matter of urgency for another disability in respect of which he made claim to pension, and although after full consideration of all the circumstances it was not found possible to admit this claim, the treatment is still being continued as a special concession. The only right of appeal against this refusal of pension is to the Pensions Appeal Tribunal.Mr. MACPHERSON
: I do not think that is so. I made reference to that particular point in reply to a question yesterday. I should like to have some further notice of that question.Mr. MACPHERSON
: The number of ex-service men at present receiving treatment in county or borough asylums at the cost of the Ministry is approximately 6,210, and of these some 4,140 have dependants eligible for and in receipt of treatment allowances. The amount of the, allowances is regulated by Articles 6 and 7 of the Royal Warrant.The MINISTER of PENSIONS (Mr. Macpherson)
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether any of these people who have been guilty of gross breaches of the truce have been prosecuted and brought to justice?Sir J. BUTCHER
7. 575 asked the Chief Secretary what provision has been made, or will be made, for men of the Irish police, forces who, whilst acting in the discharge of their duty, were seriously wounded by Sinn Feiners and the Irish republican army, and who, in consequence of such wounds, had to retire from the force whether a distinction is made between those so wounded before 1st April, 1919.
575Sir J. BUTCHER
: Have any been punished yet?Sir J. BUTCHER
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that in the majority of cases these awards for malicious injuries which are supposed to be paid by county councils are not paid at all, and that consequently men—of whom I can give the right hon. Gentleman particulars if he requires—who have got these awards, have really got nothing whatever to compensate them for wounds received in the service of the British Government?Sir J. BUTCHER
: Do I understand the right hon. Gentleman to say that men who in the discharge of their duty have been wounded by Sinn Feiners get no extra allowance or pension to compensate them for those wounds and for the compulsory retirement which follows upon the wounds?Sir J. BUTCHER
28.  asked the Prime Minister whether the assurance given by him in August last that in any settlement which may be reached the interests of the Royal Irish Constabulary and the Dublin Metropolitan Police will be secured applies both to the existing members of those two bodies and to the pensioners and retired members of those bodies, many of whom are in great straits in regard to money?Sir J. BUTCHER
32.  asked the Prime Minister what is the present position as to the trial of German criminals accused of crimes and offences in their treatment of our prisoners; and whether, in view of the breakdown of the Leipzig trials, this country, in conjunction with France, will demand the execution of the Treaty of Versailles and the surrender of these accused persons for trial?Sir JOHN BUTCHER
: In view of the atrocious crimes that have been proved against the German criminals at the Leipzig Court and the utterly inadequate sentences passed upon them, will the Government use their utmost efforts to bring the remainder of these criminals before a public tribunal?Sir J. BUTCHER
20.  asked the Chief Secretary whether military hutments in Tipperary were raided on the evening of 4th November; whether one or more Lewis guns, a number of service rifles, and a box of bombs and ammunition were removed; and whether the Government are taking any, and, if so, what measures with regard to the matter?Mr. MARRIOTT
: As a matter of fact, do they give any protection or assistance, or are they prevented from doing so?Mr. PENNEFATHER
48.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, seeing that the effect of having imposed a flat rate of duty on goods imported from Germany, regardelss of fluctuations in the value of the mark, is that goods now bought in Germany will pay only about a quarter of the duty payable on goods purchased at the time of the passing of the Safeguarding of Industries Act, he will consider the advisability of adopting a sliding scale of duty?Mr. PENNEFATHER
 asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether His Majesty's Government have any information respecting the presence of an Italian representative, named Tuozzi, at Angora, and whether there is reason to suppose that the Italian Government have any intention of following a recent example in concluding a separate agreement with the Angora Government?(by Private Notice)Sir MARTIN CONWAY
721720: The Minister of Labour would perform a very valuable service if he would point out to the hon. Member for East Grinstead (Mr. Cautley) that the remedy for dealing with unemployment in the agricultural areas rests very much more in the hands of the farming community than with the Ministry of Labour, because if the farmers and their employés would work more closely together, I am sure it would be easy for them to knock the bottom out of the great difficulties which they are labouring under to-day. Another interesting point was raised by the hon. Member for the Forest of Dean (Mr. Wignall). I want to ask my right hon. Friend if it is not a fact that he has given instructions that in all thickly populated areas where Labour Exchanges deal with a large number of men and women who have to receive benefits, they are given certain hours to attend. I have witnessed in my own constituency that that arrangement is carried out very successfully, the only difficulty being that people will come an hour or two hours before their proper time, and in order to regulate that difficulty the police have been brought in.721720Sir R. COOPER
: Can the right hon.. Gentleman refer to any letter in which Major Parsons gave in his resignation, and, if so, what is its date?Sir W. DAVISON
610: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that this officer has entirely denied that he resigned—that he has stated that he offered to resign but
610Sir W. DAVISON
71.  asked the Home Secretary under what circumstances Major E. H. T. Parsons, C.B.E., was removed from his position as Chief Constable in the Metropolitan Police after having completed 15 years' satisfactory service in the force; whether the termination of this officer's service has, in accordance with the usual practice, been notified in the Police Orders; and, if not notified in this way, what was the reason for this deviation from the usual practice?Sir W. DAVISON
 asked the Prime Minister whether, having regard to the fact that the Irish Republican Army is mobilised with arms and munitions of war in numerous camps throughout Ireland, while the loyalist population has been disarmed, he can give an assurance that adequate military and other arrangements have been made for the protection of the loyal population of Ulster and Southern Ireland in the event of a breakdown in the present negotiations with the Sinn Fein delegates?(by Private Notice)Sir W. DAVISON
: May I say, in explanation, that Mr. Speaker asked me to alter the form of the question, and put the latter part first. I asked Mr. Speaker whether it would be desirable for me to communicate with the Prime Minister, but he said that, as the substance of the question was the same, I need not trouble to do so?Sir W. DAVISON
581 asked the Chief Secretary whether at Strokestown, in the Mullingar area, the military forces are occupying a large private house; whether in the same place a force of the Irish Republican Army, two or three times as strong, is stationed in the workhouse armed with machine guns and a bombing section with armed sentries continually posted; whether this is not a provocative display of force and thereby a breach of the truce, and what steps are
581(by Private Notice)Viscount CURZON
: Will the right hon. Baronet carry out special inquiries in this case? In view of the fact that this information only reached me by post this morning, it was not possible to give earlier notice, but it comes from an officer of the regiment stationed there, and the military have very serious fears for their safety.Viscount CURZON
: The information did not reach me direct from the officer, but it comes from an officer.Viscount CURZON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman tell us how he knows that the Sinn Fein officer is doing his best?Captain Viscount CURZON
43.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he can make any statement before the House rises as to the decision of the Government in the matter of a marriage allowance to officers of the Royal Navy?Viscount CURZON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman also extend his inquiries to the City of Nottingham?Viscount CURZON
44.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer if he will undertake that in any readjustment of civil servants' salaries which may be made, the remuneration paid to temporary ex-civil servants shall not be less than that paid to permanent civil servants who are doing similar work?Viscount CURZON
: Does the hon. Member's answer mean that temporary civil servants performing the same work as the permanent civil servants are not necessarily paid the same salaries?Viscount CURZON
: Why is it necessary to take such action in the case of Staffordshire and no other county?Viscount CURZON
: I asked you that the other day.Viscount CURZON
733732731730: Yes. I think it is right that Members representing agricultural constituencies should make their voices heard in this Debate, in order that it may not be supposed that the question of unemployment is purely an industrial question, using the word "industrial" as opposed to "agricultural." There is a great danger, as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for
733732731730Earl WINTERTON
: I feel that I must raise a question which has been raised in previous Debates, and which has been referred to by the right hon. Member for Derby in his very moderate and statesmanlike speech, namely, the question of the abnormal amount of unemployment at the present time in the agricultural industry.Earl WINTERTON
: And regard them if possible from the economic point of view.Earl WINTERTON
12"not dissatisfied at the moment with the outlook."1110987in the uniform of Deputy-Lieutenant of the County of Norfolk(12"not dissatisfied at the moment with the outlook."1110987in the uniform of Deputy-Lieutenant of the County of NorfolkLieut.-Colonel Sir SAMUEL HOARE 
"We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not be allowed to break our bonds of affection."1716151413in morning dress ("We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not be allowed to break our bonds of affection."1716151413in morning dressMr. G. BARNES
: On a point of Order. May I ask whether now, as the Address has been moved and seconded, it would be in order to move that the Debate be adjourned until we know whether these articles of agreement are accepted or rejected in Dublin?Mr. RONALD McNEILL
: I am afraid that the hon. Member did not catch my eye when he rose, and therefore he is not entitled to intervene; but in any case the action of this Parliament is free and independent, and I could not accept a Motion for Adjournment on the grounds given.Mr. SPEAKER
22212019: It is customary for anyone following the Mover and Seconder of the Address of Thanks to the Throne to indulge in the language of compliment. Both the hon. and gallant Gentleman who moved the Address, and the right hon. Gentleman who seconded it, are Members of such standing and experience in this House that it would be inappropriate on my part to say more than that they have discharged a task of the greatest difficulty, as it always is, with a skill and resource which the House expected from them. One thing I would like to say with reference to their position, and their speeches, and it is that I am sure that never on any previous occasion have hon. Members of this House undertaken such onerous duties with feelings of greater thanks-giving for the occasion which has called upon them to perform this service. This is not a moment when any hon. Member of the House need attempt any long review of the almost endless and embittered conflicts which have raged throughout many centuries between this country and Ireland.22212019Mr. CLYNES
24"By way of provisional arrangement for the administration of Southern Ireland during the interval which must elapse between the date hereof and the constitution of a Parliament and Government of the Irish Free State in accordance therewith, steps shall be taken forthwith …"23: I rise to express, on behalf of those for whom. I can speak, our complete concurrence in what my right hon. Friend has just said, both with regard to the action of that Committee of the Government which brought a most difficult and complicated matter to a successful conclusion and also with regard to the Mover and the Seconder of the Address and to His Majesty the King. With regard to the action which has been taken by His Majesty's Government, theirs was a most difficult task. They had to meet in an atmosphere which it would not be using exaggerated language to describe as one not only of suspicion, but of actual hostility. That had to be
24"By way of provisional arrangement for the administration of Southern Ireland during the interval which must elapse between the date hereof and the constitution of a Parliament and Government of the Irish Free State in accordance therewith, steps shall be taken forthwith …"23Sir DONALD MACLEAN
: What His Majesty's Government have in contemplation is that Parliament should prorogue to Tuesday, 31st January, and meet for the despatch of business on that date.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN (Leader of the House)
25: I am obliged to my right hon. Friend. We now know that on the 31st January the new Session will open, and that this Bill, subject, of course, to financial arrangements—the passing of the necessary Votes on Account and so forth—will be the first Order which His Majesty's Government will present to the House for its consideration. There is only one other point which I desire to make. It would, I think, be a great mistake in our Debates if there were any note, so far as those of us who are supporting the proposal of the Government are concerned, which suggested that there was at the back of our minds any idea of recrimination, or of a desire to go back on the past and to say, "Well, I told you so." That is very easy to do, and in other circumstances we might be justified in doing it; but what we have to bear in mind, in this Debate at any rate, is that the very greatest care should be exercised as to the line for which those who take part in it are responsible. There is not the least doubt that our Irish brethren across the Channel are in a situation of very great difficulty between themselves. There are evidences of elements of difficulty and danger. Let us see, so far as our conduct of this Debate is concerned, that we give the, friends of peace in Ireland no occasion for saying that they did not have an absolutely open field and a fair chance so far as the British House of Commons was concerned. If that be done, I am quite certain that it will be fully appreciated by those who took their courage in both hands, amid circumstances of real danger to themselves, and arrived at the conclusion of the Articles which are now presented to the House.25Sir D. MACLEAN
26: We generally select for the moving and seconding of the Address Members of what I may call budding promise; but we regarded this occasion as being so exceptional that it was thought desirable to select men whose promise had matured into reputation and respect in the House. My hon. and gallant Friend who moved, and my right hon. Friend who seconded, have made speeches worthy of the reputation which they have already won in this House—well-considered, thoughtful, prudent, discreet. There were many difficulties which they avoided. They realised that it was necessary, not merely to carry these Articles in this House, but also to secure the assent of the Irish representatives as well; and all those who take part in this Debate must necessarily be hampered by that knowledge. These Articles of Agreement have received a wider publicity than probably any treaty that has ever been
26The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
: They will not be worth much, if he does make them.Mr. J. JONES
: "I am the man who knows."Mr. J. JONES
: Hear, hear!Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Do not make too sure of that.Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: This was the universal form down to 1890.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I heard it, but I do not want to interrupt the hon. and gallant Gentleman, and if I think it necessary to make a reply, I will make it when I intervene in the Debate.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
59: It was customary down to 1890, down to the year when Mr. W. H. Smith was Leader of the House, for the Address in reply to the Speech from the Throne to follow the Speech from the Throne article by article, and it was considered a revolutionary change when a simple motion of thanks
59Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Go on!HON. MEMBERS
: Withdraw!HON. MEMBERS
119: I wish to ask a few questions on behalf of the ex-service men in Ireland whose lot at present is anything but a happy one. These men joined the Army in the dark days, voluntarily, without coercion, when the country needed men badly, and now, many having been demobilised, are having a very miserable time of it at the hands of those about them. They are suffering insults and derision, as they did in the first instance on joining the Army. In this Measure to be brought forward to give effect to the agreement of the conference there is a paragraph which says something about the Royal Irish Constabulary, but there is nothing said about the ex-service men. I consider that their lot is an uncommonly hard one, and it is the duty of the Government to see that some arrangement is made under which these men can live in peace. Moreover, many of these men cannot get employment simply because they have served their country. They, therefore, deserve the protection of the Government.119Colonel BURN
: Our hands are not quite clean.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Hear, hear!Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
50: I admit it is a very difficult task I have before me, that of following no less than five speakers, all of whose speeches have been devoted to approving the action of the Government in connection with the Agreement we are discussing to-day. However, as the interests of Ulster are seriously affected by many particulars in the Articles of Agreement, no one will object to my putting forth the Ulster view. Before I deal with the point of view of Ulster, however, I hope I may be allowed to say a few words on the
50Captain CHARLES CRAIG
"in virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain, and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations."51: Perhaps the hon. Member will hear my argument. There are two distinct oaths contained in one. The person who takes the Oath swears allegiance to the Irish state. Later on he swears that he will be faithful to the
"in virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain, and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations."51Captain CRAIG
: I did not know whether the right hon. Gentleman heard my question. These are points of considerable importance. My last point is with regard to the Bill which we are to see some time or other embodying the conditions of this Agreement. Are we to understand that when that Bill comes before the House there is to be no power of amendment? I heard something very like that statement fall from the Prime Minister in his speech. All I can say with reference to that is I am perfectly convinced that this House five months ago, when they took no exception to the Conference being entered into, if they had thought for one moment that the conclusions of that Conference were to be, so to speak, put in a hermetically sealed document in which they could not introduce any improvements or amendments they would never have allowed the Prime Minister the latitude they did. We are asked to treat this as a sacred document. Take the question of the boundaries which I am sure, by their cheers, hon. Members recognise as being of great importance to us. According to the Prime Minister we are not to be allowed to alter the terms of the reference in any way, and the only terms that can go before the Commission will be those contained in Clause 12. I ask the House to reflect very seriously as to whether they are going to allow themselves to be so gagged and muzzled as that when we come to legislate on such an important question.Captain CRAIG
: What does the right hon. Gentleman mean? It cannot be so, because the state of affairs which has arisen to-day has never been before the House on any former occasion.Captain CRAIG
58"so far as may be compatible with economic and geographic conditions, the boundaries between Northern Ireland and the rest of Ireland.""Provided that if such an Address is so presented, a Commission consisting of three persons, one to be appointed by the Irish Free State, one to be appointed by the Government of Northern Ireland, and one who shall be chairman, to be appointed by the British Government, shall determine, in accordance with the wishes of the inhabitants,"575655545352: I see this matter from a double point of view—from the point of view of Ulster, and from the point of view of the Empire. I am not ashamed to say that, first and foremost, I view it from the point of view of Ulster; but while I see it from that point of view, I see it also from the point of view of the Empire. From the point of view of Ulster, I desire to see a settlement of this question as much as the Prime Minister. Goodness knows, we are sick and tired of the murder and rapine which have been going on in Ireland during the last few years, and we want a settlement as much as anybody. On the other hand I, as a, member of the general public, and a representative of a constituency which delights in being part of the British Empire, cannot see my way to condone and pass over what I consider to be acts
58"so far as may be compatible with economic and geographic conditions, the boundaries between Northern Ireland and the rest of Ireland.""Provided that if such an Address is so presented, a Commission consisting of three persons, one to be appointed by the Irish Free State, one to be appointed by the Government of Northern Ireland, and one who shall be chairman, to be appointed by the British Government, shall determine, in accordance with the wishes of the inhabitants,"575655545352Captain CRAIG
: I apologise for my ignorance of the forms of the House, but I know that in my time this form has not been reverted to before, and why has the right hon. Gentleman reverted to it now? I suggest the reason is that he wants to use the Address to the Throne as equivalent to a resolution in favour of this document. Did the right hon. Gentleman hear that?Captain CRAIG
82other is to fight. I am for fighting the assassin."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 21st February, 1921; col. 648, Vol. 138.]81"The policy of calculated and brutal arson and murder, with all its ghastly consequences, remains uncondemned by De Valera and the Sinn Fein leaders. The authors of that policy hope to terrorise into submission the British people and the British Government. It is the policy of the assassin that we are fighting, and it is watched by sinister eyes in Great Britain, in Egypt, in India, and throughout the world. Its success would mean the breakup of the Empire and our civilisation. I submit there are only two alternatives. The one is to surrender to the assassin and the80"In thus submitting the separation from the Crown of these Colonies I have sacrificed every consideration of my own to the wishes and opinion of my own people, and I make it my humblest, earnest prayer to Almighty God that Great Britain may not feel the evils which might result from so great a dismemberment of the Empire."79: I rise to put another point of view than that which has just been placed before the House by my hon. Friend. I am afraid that I look upon the signing of this Agreement as a very deep humiliation to this country. I feel that it would be more fitting if we were to have in the Gracious Speech from the Throne something like
82other is to fight. I am for fighting the assassin."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 21st February, 1921; col. 648, Vol. 138.]81"The policy of calculated and brutal arson and murder, with all its ghastly consequences, remains uncondemned by De Valera and the Sinn Fein leaders. The authors of that policy hope to terrorise into submission the British people and the British Government. It is the policy of the assassin that we are fighting, and it is watched by sinister eyes in Great Britain, in Egypt, in India, and throughout the world. Its success would mean the breakup of the Empire and our civilisation. I submit there are only two alternatives. The one is to surrender to the assassin and the80"In thus submitting the separation from the Crown of these Colonies I have sacrificed every consideration of my own to the wishes and opinion of my own people, and I make it my humblest, earnest prayer to Almighty God that Great Britain may not feel the evils which might result from so great a dismemberment of the Empire."79Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: That would give them a reserve, probably, of the 400,000 or 500,000 men which the Prime Minister gave as the number Ireland might possibly be able to arm.Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
de jure,facto86de"In the interests of all the associated States, in the interests above all of England herself, it is essential that the present de jure,facto86de858483: I did not understand the hon. and gallant Member's interruption. If we were absolutely sure that that army of, say, 400,000 men would be as friendly to us as the Australians are at the present time, then I admit it might be possible to allow it, but I think it is a very grave danger to allow it until that has been proved or, at any rate, until stable government has been set up in Ireland, which is very far from being the case at present. If Ireland really is going to take this Agreement as a final settlement of all differences and if we are going to pull together in friendship in the future, why not keep one Army for the whole of England, Ireland and Scotland? The Irish people never hated the British Army in the old days, and I do not believe for a moment they do so now. I say, on the other hand, it is an enormous weakening of all forces—both the Navy, Army and the Air Force—not to be allowed to be recruited in Ireland, which is one of the things laid down in this Agreement. I have had the honour of serving in both the Navy and the Army. For four years I wore naval uniform and for 17 years military uniform. Everyone who has served, like so many of us in this House, in the Navy or Army, knows what a very large number of the regular forces we used to get from Ireland before the War. Now we are not to be allowed to recruit these men, and if they come over here to join, supposing there is a hostile party in power—say, a Republican party under De Valera or somebody else—they will, in all probability, be boycotted and their relations in Ireland ill-treated. Condition 3 dealt with the necessity of the Royal Air Force having landing facilities and air ports in Ireland. That has gone overboard entirely. The
de jure,facto86de"In the interests of all the associated States, in the interests above all of England herself, it is essential that the present de jure,facto86de858483Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
"There is a great cry against English influence. I am quite sure that it is Irish influence that dreads the English habits … I think that Great Britain would be ruined by the separation of Ireland; but as there are degrees oven in ruin, it would fall the most heavily on Ireland. By such a separation Ireland would be the most completely undone country in the world; the most wretched, the most distracted, and, in the end, the most desolate part of the habitable globe. Little do many people in Ireland consider how much of its prosperity has been owing, and still depends upon, its intimate connection with this Kingdom."87: Because it says so. They first of all swear allegiance to the Irish Free State, and the second part is only an oath of fidelity to His Majesty as head of the British Commonwealth of Nations. To begin with, there is not a British Commonwealth of Nations, and in the second place, fidelity is not allegiance. When we come to look into it, there is no other Dominion in the British Empire in which the Members of their respective. Houses of Parliament do not swear allegiance to the Crown. Why Ireland should be allowed not to do that I fail to understand, except upon one ground, and after all it is the ground upon which this Agreement has been framed. It is, of course, because the Sinn Feiners refused, if they had to swear allegiance, to go on with the negotiations. As the Noble Lord the Member for Oxford University (Lord H. Cecil)—and I thought he made a most telling speech against this Agreement—said, it really comes back to a miserable, and shameful, and humiliating surrender to these people who have been guilty of the most horrible campaign of murder and assassination, and it means handing over the South of Ireland to a Government of bullies and tyrants. That is what it means. Ireland itself will be miserable, I believe, in a very short time if this Agreement goes through. I think the sort of separation which is to be carried out now is one of the saddest things that has ever happened in the history of this country, and I
"There is a great cry against English influence. I am quite sure that it is Irish influence that dreads the English habits … I think that Great Britain would be ruined by the separation of Ireland; but as there are degrees oven in ruin, it would fall the most heavily on Ireland. By such a separation Ireland would be the most completely undone country in the world; the most wretched, the most distracted, and, in the end, the most desolate part of the habitable globe. Little do many people in Ireland consider how much of its prosperity has been owing, and still depends upon, its intimate connection with this Kingdom."87Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
66"I solemnly swear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the Irish Free State … and that I will be faithful to His Majesty King George V.""I … do solemnly swear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the Irish Free State as by law established and that I will be faithful to His Majesty King George V., his heirs and successors by law in virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations."65: What prospect is there of that good will? We start with the fact that a minority, an influential minority in Ireland, are opposed to this settlement.66"I solemnly swear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the Irish Free State … and that I will be faithful to His Majesty King George V.""I … do solemnly swear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the Irish Free State as by law established and that I will be faithful to His Majesty King George V., his heirs and successors by law in virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations."65Lord H. CECIL
7372And break it to our hope."That keep the word of promise to our earThat palter with us in a double sense:"And be these juggling friends no more believ'd71: Does the right hon. Gentleman really maintain that if, instead of propounding the Act of 1920, he had
7372And break it to our hope."That keep the word of promise to our earThat palter with us in a double sense:"And be these juggling friends no more believ'd71Lord H. CECIL
64: That is sufficient to show how easy it is to hope, and how often one is disappointed. The right hon. Gentleman, in his very interesting description of what the Dominions did in respect of foreign affairs, and of how the newly revised constitution of the Empire worked, claimed, and rightly claimed, that it was goodwill and good sense which made such a system work. That is very
64Lord H. CECIL
6867: That does not make it any better. These murders were, in a very extraordinary degree, social acts which were screened by the Irish people, no doubt as a result, very largely, of intimidation; but does that promise any prosperity for a scheme of Dominion Home Rule? Is that the sort of material out of which a strong Dominion can be created—a Dominion which can work reasonably and with goodwill? Murder breaks up society from the very bottom, and the moment it exists the law begins to collapse. Self-government also collapses, and there can be no reality in any self-governing system brought about under such conditions. It reduces the, whole constitution to a farce. I blame, the Government very severely for not having had this in their mind when they
6867Lord H. CECIL
cul de sac,70"What has been the consequence of setting up this Parliament in Northern Ireland? It is a consequence which some Noble Lords will find welcome and some will find very unwelcome. Let me state it. It is to make it clear, written in legible characters upon the face of the Statute Book, that there are to be dealt with, as there have always had to be dealt with in this matter, not one Ireland, but two Irelands."69: By resigning as a first step, since the Prime Minister asks me. By resigning office and giving place to people who can govern. I have not the least doubt that you could put down
cul de sac,70"What has been the consequence of setting up this Parliament in Northern Ireland? It is a consequence which some Noble Lords will find welcome and some will find very unwelcome. Let me state it. It is to make it clear, written in legible characters upon the face of the Statute Book, that there are to be dealt with, as there have always had to be dealt with in this matter, not one Ireland, but two Irelands."69Lord H. CECIL
"Just as Botha and Smuts have been able to say in the speeches which were published three days ago that the concession of free institutions to South Africa has changed the men who but ten or a little more years ago were your bitter enemies in the field into your loyal comrades and fellow citizens in the Empire, just as truthfully can I say to you that by what of recent years has happened in this country with the democracy of England, Ireland has been transformed from what George Meredith described a short time ago as 'the broken arm of England' into one of the strongest bulwarks of the Empire."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 15th September, 1914; col. 912. Vol. 66.]63626160: I wish to say a word of respectful congratulation to the Government upon one aspect of what we
"Just as Botha and Smuts have been able to say in the speeches which were published three days ago that the concession of free institutions to South Africa has changed the men who but ten or a little more years ago were your bitter enemies in the field into your loyal comrades and fellow citizens in the Empire, just as truthfully can I say to you that by what of recent years has happened in this country with the democracy of England, Ireland has been transformed from what George Meredith described a short time ago as 'the broken arm of England' into one of the strongest bulwarks of the Empire."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 15th September, 1914; col. 912. Vol. 66.]63626160Lord HUGH CECIL
: And to call him a man instead of a Noble Lord?Major HAMILTON
: Why not?Major Sir KEITH FRASER
: Why not?Sir K. FRASER
: To fight for the Empire?Major Sir K. FRASER
78God who made thee mighty make thee mightier yet."Wider still and wider shall thy bounds be set,How shall we extol thee, who are born of thee?"Land of hope and glory, Mother of the free,77767574: In the earlier part of his speech the Noble Lord touched upon a good many points of historical interest, and sketched some of the history of Ireland some centuries back. It would be folly for me to controvert his knowledge of history, representing such an important centre as Oxford University, but nevertheless there are one or two points in history of which my Noble Friend has omitted to tell the House, and which have a direct bearing on this case. He has also given us a very high moral disquisition with regard to murder, and, here again, I am sure the whole House must feel in perfect sympathy with him. He has also touched upon the differences between Ireland and this country on a good many points, and has brought out the distinction of religion. Here again I should like to say a word or two for, being a Catholic myself, I feel that it is only fair that I should put some view-point before the House as it appeals to me, and also as a supporter of the Government, all through the days when they were applying all the force they knew to the suppression of murder. I was an ardent supporter of the Government all through those days, and to-day I find myself equally a supporter of the Government in their process of
78God who made thee mighty make thee mightier yet."Wider still and wider shall thy bounds be set,How shall we extol thee, who are born of thee?"Land of hope and glory, Mother of the free,77767574Mr. HAILW00D
88: This is one of those very rare occasions when I am able to accord my support to the Government. The Prime Minister and his friends appear to have come to the House to-day in an atmosphere in which they appear to have as their motto "Peace on earth, goodwill towards men," and I would extend to them my greater support on this occasion if I felt that this motto was being applied to the Government's policy in this country as well as in Ireland. I am not concerned so very much with the actual terms of the Irish settlement. In themselves they are only a step, though a step in the right direction, removing one obstacle in the way of the improvement of the admittedly deplorable conditions of the Irish workers. An immense amount of devoted work still remains to be done in their country, and I shall watch with very great interest how the new Governments, North and South, set about dealing with the terrible slum areas in both Dublin and Belfast. I am chiefly concerned with the methods of this settlement by conference, because I hope that it indicates that the Government have at long last realised that military force does not crush an idea. It can never crush an idea. We all make mistakes and miscalculations sometimes, but surely the Government should realise, after their Russian experience, that militarism cannot crush out an ideal. They should have
88Mr. C. L. MALONE
9089: I think my points were very closely connected with the Irish Question, because I was endeavouring to point out that the release of political
9089Mr. MALONE
: It ended in this settlement.The PRIME MINISTER
: How?The PRIME MINISTER
: Hear, hear.The PRIME MINISTER
"The 'New York Times,' voicing the general approval, states that some politicians in this country will lament that their source of reputation and of livelihood has been taken from them, but nothing can really abate the deep satisfaction with which the entire world will receive the news."45"Regarding the Irish settlement strictly from the American standpoint, its effects must be beneficial on Anglo-American relations and ought to bring about a close and firm friendship between England and the United States, which hitherto has been impossible, because all attempts at amity were defeated by Irish malcontents in this country. Ireland has long been an issue in American politics. It has affected elections and controlled policies. It has divided parties. It has defeated treaties, agreements, and co-operation between England and the United States because of the terrorism exercised by the Irish.": It is only to that extent I propose to go, and, having regard to the terms of the Address, it is essential I should make that reference. The prestige of the Empire has been enormously enhanced by this Agreement. It has given the Empire a new strength. There was a very remarkable communication which came the other day from an able correspondent at Washington, and I think it worth reading to the House:
"The 'New York Times,' voicing the general approval, states that some politicians in this country will lament that their source of reputation and of livelihood has been taken from them, but nothing can really abate the deep satisfaction with which the entire world will receive the news."45"Regarding the Irish settlement strictly from the American standpoint, its effects must be beneficial on Anglo-American relations and ought to bring about a close and firm friendship between England and the United States, which hitherto has been impossible, because all attempts at amity were defeated by Irish malcontents in this country. Ireland has long been an issue in American politics. It has affected elections and controlled policies. It has divided parties. It has defeated treaties, agreements, and co-operation between England and the United States because of the terrorism exercised by the Irish."The PRIME MINISTER
47"It is difficult for a Government, after all that has passed, to shake hands with defiers of the King, defiers of Parliament, defiers of the people. … Mercy cannot do harm. It will seat the King where he ought to be, throned in the hearts of his people; and millions at home and abroad now employed in obloquy and revolt would pray for him.""Fully persuaded that to heal and to redress will be more congenial to the goodness and magnanimity of His Majesty and more prevalent over the hearts of generous and free-born subjects than the rigours of chastisement and the horrors of civil war."46: I meant no personal reflection. Is it to be laid down that no rebellion is ever to be settled by pacific means? If the terms are good, are they never to be negotiated with rebels? Whom else could we have negotiated with? This House is the last authority in the world to maintain that proposition. It owes its greatest rights and privileges to concessions made to successful rebels. And may I also point out that the most ruthless repression of any Irish insurrection was effected by the greatest English rebel in history, leading an army of rebels, on behalf of a rebel government, to crush the Irish who had rallied to their legitimate Sovereign. If you take the greatest battle in Irish history—and I am sure my friends from Ulster will forgive me if I allude to it; you might have thought sometimes it was fought only yesterday—it was a battle fought by a British army led by a revolutionary King against an Irish army led by a King who had been deposed by an English revolution. There were more than half, I believe, of the English aristocracy who still believed him to be the rightful occupant of the Throne. There are considerations when you come to discuss rebellion in Ireland which are very difficult to disentangle, and we had better not say too much about them. The same arguments were advanced when there was appeasement of Canada. One of the Bills that was carried through this House was characterised by the "Morning Post" of that day as the "Rebels
47"It is difficult for a Government, after all that has passed, to shake hands with defiers of the King, defiers of Parliament, defiers of the people. … Mercy cannot do harm. It will seat the King where he ought to be, throned in the hearts of his people; and millions at home and abroad now employed in obloquy and revolt would pray for him.""Fully persuaded that to heal and to redress will be more congenial to the goodness and magnanimity of His Majesty and more prevalent over the hearts of generous and free-born subjects than the rigours of chastisement and the horrors of civil war."46The PRIME MINISTER
48: We have got in support of our view this agreement, and can anyone say it could have been reached a year ago? I do not believe it could. But it has been done. I invited here time and again conferences, and those invitations were not accepted. The fact of the matter is that public opinion on neither side was quite ripe. It was only when it came to be realised by everybody that prolonging the agony would only mean more loss, devastation, irritation, and trouble that the moment came when men of reason on both sides said: "Let us put an end to it." You could not have done it earlier; but here it is, as far as it has gone. We
48The PRIME MINISTER
32: Oh, yes, I do. Certainly I do. I have discovered it. There are innumerable letters, resolutions and speeches which have all said: "Try Dominion Home Rule!" They had all one defect in common. They ignored all the obstacles and, therefore, they gave us no counsel as to how we were to overcome them. It is no use giving a general prescription in complicated cases. You may find the same symptoms, but you cannot ignore the constitution of the patient, his temperament, and, above all, his history, because you may find that there are evils in his system which have been left there by earlier imprudences. Therefore, it is
32The PRIME MINISTER
28: I will explain as best I can the nature and extent of this transaction. What does "Dominion status" mean? It is difficult and dangerous to give a definition.
28The PRIME MINISTER
36: That is the Treaty—which is the only question now before us. My right hon. Friend enquires, if this Treaty be broken, what shall we do to enforce it? I am quite willing to face that. It is not a question
36The PRIME MINISTER
37: Then my right hon. Friend's memory must be very bad indeed. I never stigmatised Dominion Home Rule as lunacy. What I did say was that to allow Ireland the right to raise unlimited forces, which would pro-
37The PRIME MINISTER
: If my right hon. Friend says now that he did not say that I characterised Dominion Home Rule as lunacy, then I at once withdraw, but his followers certainly have done so, and I understood that he did also. At any rate, let me make it clear, for the benefit of his supporters that I never did say that. I confined the statement purely to the unlimited raising of forces and to the raising of an independent navy.The PRIME MINISTER
: I have read within the last 24 hours a letter which my right hon. Friend wrote to his organ, the "Times." I will bring it here tomorrow. He will find there a passage in which he makes it perfectly clear that he would leave the army and navy in the same position in Ireland as in Canada.The PRIME MINISTER
38: For the moment we will postpone the duel till to-morrow. All I say is that if my right hon. Friend did not say so, and assuming that I am right, such a proposal was sheer lunacy. That is only a kind of provisional characterisation of his speech. So much for the military forces of the Crown. What we have done there is this: We felt that the defence of these islands by sea ought to be left to the British Navy. That is better for Ireland and better for England. There is the inherited skill, there is the power, there is the tradition of the Navy, so that the first thing we provided for was that, in the case of war, we should have free access to all the Irish harbours and creeks. If there be war, we cannot wait for discussions between Governments as to whether you can send your ships here or land men there. The decision must be left to the discretion of the men who conduct the operations.38The PRIME MINISTER
: I claim that we have used it fairly—quite fairly. We have used every argument in favour of it. I have heard from the benches where the hon. Member for Canterbury (Mr. R. McNeill) sits my right hon. Friend Lord Carson set forward as the ultimate ideal—the unity of Ireland. I have never heard an Ulster leader challenge the proposition that that was the ultimate ideal. I meant to have the quotation before me, but I did not think that would be doubted. If that be the ultimate ideal, was it unfair to Ulster to recommend that they should consider the question? That is all we have done. The refusal of Ulster even to enter into discussion, as long as an all-Ireland Parliament was a subject of discussion, raised artificial barriers in the way of an interchange of views. We could not have agreed to withdraw the discussion of an all-Ireland Parliament from the Conference without breaking it up, and we should not have been justified in breaking it up upon a refusal even to enter into a discussion of the desirability of the proposal. The responsibility was too great, and we could not accept it.The PRIME MINISTER
: I stated that there are people who express that opinion, and I think it is wise. Just see what it means. There is no doubt—certainly since the Act of 1920—that the majority of the people of two counties prefer being with their Southern neighbours to being in the Northern Parliament. Take it either by constituency or by Poor Law unions, or, if you like, by counting heads, and you will find that the majority in these two counties prefer to be with their Southern neighbours. What does that mean? If Ulster is to remain a separate community, you can only by means of coercion keep them there, and although I am against the coercion of Ulster, I do not believe in Ulster coercing other units. Apart from that, would it be an advantage to Ulster? There is no doubt it would give her trouble. The trouble which we have had in the South the North would have on a smaller scale, but the strain, in proportion, on her resources would be just as great as the strain upon ours. It would be a trouble at her own door, a trouble which would complicate the whole of her machinery, and take away her mind from building. She wants to construct; she wants to build up a good Government, a model Government, and she cannot do so as long as she has got a trouble like this on her own threshold, nay, inside her door.The PRIME MINISTER
: No, no! If my right hon. Friend will take the actual terms, he will find that we avoid giving specific directions of that kind to the Arbitrator. He is there to adjust the boundaries, and he can take into account these considerations.The PRIME MINISTER
42: As between the Northern community and the Southern. He takes into account the wishes of the inhabitants, but, as I pointed out, if that were the sole criterion, you might take away a little corner of North-East Antrim. Therefore, you have also got to take into account geographical considerations and
42The PRIME MINISTER
Interruption.: And swearing allegiance to the King. [Interruption.The PRIME MINISTER
: How do you propose to enforce the limit?Sir F. BANBURY
: And all his party.Sir F. BANBURY
: It is quite clear that the right hon. Gentleman did not read my speech.Mr. ASQUITH
: I have read them.Mr. ASQUITH
: The boundaries as between North and South?Mr. ASQUITH
: This is a very important point. I would like my right hon. Friend to tell us, is the operation of this proposed Boundary Commission to be by counties, or by any specific areas, or merely an enumeration of population?Mr. ASQUITH
: No.Mr. ASQUITH
: Which I have never proposed or sanctioned.Mr. ASQUITH
: In 1641.Captain DIXON
: Go and read your history.Captain DIXON
: On a point of Order. Is it right for the hon. Member to go into a long dissertation on English social matters? We are talking about Ireland. I should have thought it was quite out of order, but I submit to your ruling.Mr. ERSKINE
: It is an Address in answer to His Majesty's Gracious Speech, and on this occasion it is in order to review the general policy of the Government on the situation of this country.Mr. DEPUTY-SPEAKER (Mr. James Hope)
régime,102casus belli,casus belli,101100: There are Members of the Coalition who will unhesitatingly support this Treaty, and, in doing so, will resent very strongly any suggestion that they have sympathy with murder or outrage or other atrocities. So far from having the slightest sympathy with those outrages they deplore and condemn them, but, on the other hand, they cannot escape responsibility, in some measure, for the existence of conditions which may have to some extent been responsible for those outrages. Over a lengthy period we have had these outrages constantly recurring, and it is only fair to the younger Members of the Unionist party to consider very seriously whether there is any remedy for them. Are we to assume that the Catholic Irishman is utterly incapable of being as respectable a citizen as, say, a Scotsman? Very proud as I am of my own country and its traditions, I should, I feel, be unworthy of my country if I entertained any such opinion as that of Catholic Irishmen. Therefore I want at the very outset to enter my strong dissent to the suggestion that any Conservative Member is to be regarded as having any sympathy whatever with disorder because he supports the Treaty now before the House. I should like, in supporting this Treaty, to say that I have arrived at my decision by a somewhat different route and have been influenced by far different considerations from those put forward by the Prime Minister to-day. If it is not presumptuous for one in my position to say so, it seems to me that the Prime Minister, in his desire to be as tactful as possible at the present stage, unduly strained the analogy of Dominion Government. I speak in the presence of the Chief Secretary for Ireland, who has doubtless studied the subject closely, when I say that of the many tests which can be applied to Dominion Government of the character to which the Prime Minister referred, although the right hon. Gentleman did not attempt to give anything like a final definition, there is one best to be satisfied, and that is that the Dominion Government has only been resorted to when government by representation in this Parliament was impossible to a British State.régime,102casus belli,casus belli,101100Mr. KIDD
: On a point of Order. Is it in order for an hon. Member to refer to a debate in another place and to refer to a speech there as a mischievous speech?Mr. RAWLINSON
: Some hon. Members below the Gangway are continually interrupting. I hope they will allow the hon. Member to proceed with his speech.Mr. SPEAKER
: This House is not the place in which to make any reply to speeches made in the other House.Mr. SPEAKER
: I think the hon. Baronet has stated the position of this House just a little too broadly. In moving the Address in reply to the Speech from the Throne, it is not possible to avoid using the name of the Sovereign. Our rule—a very sound one—is that the name of the Sovereign should not be brought into Debates to influence decisions.Mr. SPEAKER
: I have to acquaint the House that this House has this day attended His Majesty in the House of Peers to hear His Majesty's Most Gracious Speech to both Houses of Parliament, in pursuance of His Majesty's Commands, and of which I have for greater accuracy obtained a copy.Mr. SPEAKER
: If you use it fairly.Mr. R. McNEILL
: "Owning allegiance"!Mr. R. McNEILL
Mr. George Thorne."When God wants a hard thing done in this world He tells it to His Englishmen."124123122121status quo,120: I appeal to the House for that courtesy which they always extend to an hon. Member making his maiden speech on Irish affairs. Although I have been in the House for many years and have voted many times on Irish questions, and hold an unwavering position in regard to Ireland, this is the first time I have risen to address the House on an Irish subject. I hope my hon. and gallant Friend who has just spoken will not think that I am lacking in courtesy if I do not go into details in the short time that remains for me to address the House, as those who have had more direct concern with the negotiations are in a better position to answer detailed questions. I wish to confine myself to the main lines of argument used this afternoon and give such answer as I can. In passing, I may say that I have had no part in the negotiations and that my mind is always rather of a critical than of an enthusiastic kind. I have always considered myself as a typical representative of an ordinary rank and file Member of the Unionist party, and so I am pleased that it has fallen to my lot to stand at this Box and explain why I support, as I do whole-heartedly, the agreement which is before the House. It was always said by our opponents, and I think my Unionist friends will remember, that the position we took up over Ulster was that we wanted Ulster to be predominant in Ireland and be in such a position that she could exercise a veto over
Mr. George Thorne."When God wants a hard thing done in this world He tells it to His Englishmen."124123122121status quo,120The PRESIDENT of the BOARD of TRADE (Mr. Baldwin)
: The enforcement of the 1920 Act.Rear-Admiral ADAIR
"As far as I am concerned, and I am speaking on behalf of the Government, we shall certainly resist, out and out, any attempt to have an army or navy set up in Ireland at our doors to menace the existence of the United Kingdom."114113"Ulster is a separate and distinct entity."112"Is the outcome of the best judgment of the Government and is the wisest conclusion which the Government could possibly arrive at after serious reflection."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 31st March, 1920; col. 1326, Vol. 127.]"Between Great Britain and Ireland there can be one foreign policy and one Army and one Navy, and we cannot stand any separation in those matters any more than could the North stand the separation of the South in the case of the United States."111"The case of the Colonies is not identical with that of Ireland and does not resemble it. The nearness of Ireland compared with the remoteness of the Colonies prevents it.""If Ireland could be towed out 2,000 miles towards America you would then find that there was a considerable resemblance between the case of Ireland and that of the Colonies.""The powers given are the most generous that are compatible with the existing conditions in Ireland."110"I protest against the doctrine that you should go further and give more, not because Ireland needs it, not because it is fair to the United Kingdom, but because crime has been more successful.: I came here with certain convictions with regard to these proposals. Nothing which I have heard has altered my convictions. My sympathies are entirely with the hon. Member for South Kensington (Sir W. Davison), who has made a most impassioned speech. My firm conviction is that these proposals are an ignoble surrender to rebellion, assassination and outrage. No chicanery, no glorification of these proposals in the Press can mask that fact, though the Press has done its best to do so, nor can the splendour of the opening of Parliament for the special purpose of passing these proposals mitigate the sad reality of that surrender. That surrender has come about in consequence of the vacillating, weak, not to say craven, conduct of affairs by His Majesty's Government during the past few years. I called attention to this 18 months ago when I told the Government that their weak-kneed policy was at the bottom of the whole of the trouble. This lamentable conduct of affairs has landed the Government in an appalling situation from which there are two means of escape. The first is the suppression of rebellion, assassination and outrage, and the other is surrender. In spite of all the protestations as to effecting the suppression of rebellion, assassination and outrage, the Government have chosen surrender."As far as I am concerned, and I am speaking on behalf of the Government, we shall certainly resist, out and out, any attempt to have an army or navy set up in Ireland at our doors to menace the existence of the United Kingdom."114113"Ulster is a separate and distinct entity."112"Is the outcome of the best judgment of the Government and is the wisest conclusion which the Government could possibly arrive at after serious reflection."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 31st March, 1920; col. 1326, Vol. 127.]"Between Great Britain and Ireland there can be one foreign policy and one Army and one Navy, and we cannot stand any separation in those matters any more than could the North stand the separation of the South in the case of the United States."111"The case of the Colonies is not identical with that of Ireland and does not resemble it. The nearness of Ireland compared with the remoteness of the Colonies prevents it.""If Ireland could be towed out 2,000 miles towards America you would then find that there was a considerable resemblance between the case of Ireland and that of the Colonies.""The powers given are the most generous that are compatible with the existing conditions in Ireland."110"I protest against the doctrine that you should go further and give more, not because Ireland needs it, not because it is fair to the United Kingdom, but because crime has been more successful.Rear-Admiral ADAIR
: On a point of Order. I am exceedingly sorry to intrude on the Prime Minister. I did not raise this point of Order when two previous speakers were addressing the House, because they were moving and seconding the Address. I now ask your ruling, Sir, as to whether the name of the Monarch can be introduced into a Debate in this House. I submit with great deference that it is one of the oldest and longest standing Rules of Order of this House that no reference whatever should be made to the personality of the Crown or the action of the Crown. In these circumstances, I ask whether it is in order for the right hon. Gentleman or for any other Member in this Debate to refer to the action of the Crown in regard to this matter?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Rubbish!Mr. W. THORNE
999897"in virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations.""I will be faithful to His Majesty King George V., his heirs and successors by law,"96de facto,95"Why are we asked to go further? I protest against the doctrine that you should go further and give more, not because Ireland needs it, not because it is fair to the United Kingdom, but because crime has been more successful. That is a fatal doctrine for any Government in any country to adopt. Give it because it is right and just, or because it is good for Ireland and the United Kingdom, or because it is for peace and goodwill, but do not give it because you are bullied by assassins.""The murder gang, who were dominating and terrorising the country, should be broken up, and unless I am greatly mistaken we shall do it."949392"It will be quite impossible to have a settlement except with the full consent of Parliament. The whole of the terms will be submitted to Parliament on the assumption that there is a settlement, and every provision will have to be ratified by Parliament even to the smallest detail"—[OFFICIAL, REPORT, 27th October, 1921; col. 1025, Vol. 147.]"Most distinctly.""Will the right hon. Gentleman answer my question as to whether the terms of settlement are to be open to revision and alteration by Parliament.""The results of the conferences now being held will be submitted to Parliament, and the concurrence of Parliament in any settlement is, of course, necessary.""What is the precise meaning of the statement in his letter of 20th July last to the Member for East Clare in which he says that the British Government propose that the conditions of settlement between Great Britain and Ireland shall be embodied in the form of a Treaty, to which effect shall in due course be given by the British and Irish Parliaments; and whether it is intended that the terms of any settlement shall be open to revision and alteration by the Imperial Parliament?"91: I confess to have listened with deep disappointment to the speech of the Prime Minister this afternoon. I found in it no real attempt at justifying the great departure in policy in which he and his colleagues have engaged. The greater portion of the speech was devoted to an exposition—it appeared to be a somewhat laboured one—of the details of the so-called Treaty, interspersed as it was with apologies, or explanations he might have called them—I think rather unsatisfactory ones—of the more objectionable features in that Treaty, and he wound up by picturing before our eyes the vision of the paradise which is going to enrapture Ireland and the world if this settlement comes into operation. I wish he had devoted a little more time to telling us why he and his colleagues changed their minds in a month or two, threw all their convictions of a lifetime into the melting-pot, and asked us to follow them. There was one portion of his speech really alarming, and that was that when a Bill is brought in to give effect to these Articles of Agreement, it will be utterly impossible for this House to alter one iota of the Bill, unless we are willing to throw the Treaty on the floor. I venture to think no Member of this House had realised that was the position into which we were
999897"in virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations.""I will be faithful to His Majesty King George V., his heirs and successors by law,"96de facto,95"Why are we asked to go further? I protest against the doctrine that you should go further and give more, not because Ireland needs it, not because it is fair to the United Kingdom, but because crime has been more successful. That is a fatal doctrine for any Government in any country to adopt. Give it because it is right and just, or because it is good for Ireland and the United Kingdom, or because it is for peace and goodwill, but do not give it because you are bullied by assassins.""The murder gang, who were dominating and terrorising the country, should be broken up, and unless I am greatly mistaken we shall do it."949392"It will be quite impossible to have a settlement except with the full consent of Parliament. The whole of the terms will be submitted to Parliament on the assumption that there is a settlement, and every provision will have to be ratified by Parliament even to the smallest detail"—[OFFICIAL, REPORT, 27th October, 1921; col. 1025, Vol. 147.]"Most distinctly.""Will the right hon. Gentleman answer my question as to whether the terms of settlement are to be open to revision and alteration by Parliament.""The results of the conferences now being held will be submitted to Parliament, and the concurrence of Parliament in any settlement is, of course, necessary.""What is the precise meaning of the statement in his letter of 20th July last to the Member for East Clare in which he says that the British Government propose that the conditions of settlement between Great Britain and Ireland shall be embodied in the form of a Treaty, to which effect shall in due course be given by the British and Irish Parliaments; and whether it is intended that the terms of any settlement shall be open to revision and alteration by the Imperial Parliament?"91Sir J. BUTCHER
: No, no!Mr. LYNN
: Law and order.Mr. LYNN
: No, it is not true.Mr. LYNN
: No.Mr. LYNN
: Therefore it ill becomes hon. Members opposite to talk in this way of Irishmen in Southern Ireland.Sir R. THOMAS
: As to all speeches which we have heard to-day from hon. Members opposite who are out to avoid this contract or pact being ratified, what is their alternative?Sir R. THOMAS
: I bow to your ruling, Sir. I was not replying to the speech made by the Noble Lord in another place, I was making a passing reference to the late leader of the Northern Unionist party in this House, who has gone to another place and who made a speech to-day which is not calculated to promote harmony. I was referring to the importation of arms into Ireland.Sir R. THOMAS
: I say this, when people talk about the disloyalty of the Southern Irish, that they should bear in mind that the people who first imported arms into Ireland are the people of the North of Ireland.Sir R. THOMAS
: Law and order! You have tried it for 700 years and failed. Law and order! You will never get it,—[HON. MEMBERS: "Hear, hear!"] Perhaps my hon. Friends will allow me to finish my sentence. You will never get law and order by the sword. You have tried it, and you have failed. Hon. Gentlemen opposite who are declining to ratify this Treaty surely ought to bring forward some alternative. Are we going to continue to have this bloodshed and ruin in Ireland without some attempt at a settlement? If you have declined to negotiate with Griffith and these other men, with whom are you going to negotiate? What is your alternative policy? I would like someone to tell us what is the way out of this difficulty. I have heard no one yet give any indication of a solution.Sir R. THOMAS
: Really, I am surprised at my hon. and gallant Friend making a suggestion of that sort. We have tried it. [HON. MEMBERS: "No!"] The Sinn Fein members declined to attend the Parliament. They would not administer that Act. That is no solution. The Irish want self-government. Under this Treaty they are going to have self-government. They are to govern themselves according to their own ideals. The North can govern themselves according to their own ideals. What I would like to know is, What is the alternative to the policy proposed by the Government? I do hope that this House will not be intimidated by the North of Ireland, by the "Diehards," by the men who will advocate no policy of their own, and obstruct every other policy. It is time, in these enlightened years, that really we should approach these problems with a little common sense. If we were able to trust to the Dutch in South Africa, surely we can trust men of our own blood across the water. [An HON. MEMBER: "We cannot trust the Welsh."] The people of this country can trust the Prime Minister, who is Welsh!Sir R. THOMAS
: He ought to be impeached for high treason. [HON. MEMBERS: "Withdraw, withdraw" and "Sit down"!] That is the spirit of Ulster!Sir R. THOMAS
115: I think Wales should have a voice in regard to the problem which is before the House to-day. Liberal Members from Wales are a united body on this matter. We have returned Members to this House for the last quarter of a century to advocate the claims of Ireland. We have been Home Rulers in Wales for at least 30 years, and we are Home Rulers to-day. We sympathise with the sister island and with her Celtic aspirations, and I think it requires a Celt from Wales or Scotland to appreciate the Irish point of view. We in our country feel very proud that a Welshman is at the head of the Administration which is to-day bringing a message of peace and goodwill to Ireland. My hon. and gallant Friend who has just addressed the House suggests that those who support this Treaty are committing a breach of faith with their constituents. We are not doing that in Wales. By supporting the Prime Minister and the Government in this matter we are fulfilling the earnest and enthusiastic wish of practically the whole of the Welsh nation. I am glad there are hon. Members able to look at this problem from another point of view than the naval point of view, which is, after
115Sir R. THOMAS
118: I do not know where my hon. Friend comes from. If he be a Saxon, I will tell him, for his enlightenment, that we had civilisation in Wales when his ancestors were running in the backwoods with painted skins. Not trust a Welshman! I would like to know what would have happened in the War if it had not been for a Welshman, and the three principal figures of to-day are Welshmen. Mr. Secretary Hughes, of the United States, who is a Welshman from Anglesey, and the Prime Minister, who is a Welshman, and we are proud of him, and the Prime Minister of Australia. Therefore it is not for my hon. Friends opposite to cast aspersions upon Welshmen. There was a time when that sort of thing went down, but to-day a Welshman can hold his own with most men. Owing to the interruptions I have been taken rather away from my subject, but, in conclusion,
118Sir R. THOMAS
109pax BritannicaFlung her aside."Great-hearted Ulster—Scorned her, repulsed her—Trod on her pride,"Jeered at her loyalty,"Give it because it is right, give it because it is just, give it because it is good for Ireland and good for the United Kingdom, give it because it brings peace and good will, but do not give it because you are bullied by assassins."108"For the sake of Ireland they had better not have an army. Armies are expensive. Navies are expensive, too. Not only are they expensive, but they are also extremely dangerous, and may go off. So, on the whole, I think the Army and Navy had better be under the control of the Imperial Parliament. So far as I am concerned, and I am speaking on behalf of the Government, we shall certainly resist, out and out, any attempt for an army or navy being set up in Ireland, at our doors, to menace the existence of the United Kingdom."107"With a view to securing the observance of the principle of international limitation of armaments, if the Government of the Irish Free State establishes and maintains a military defence force, the establishments thereof shall not exceed in size such proportion of the military establishments maintained in Great Britain as that which the population of Ireland bears to the population of Great Britain.""Do not take these risks. This is a great country, a great country. It has done more for human freedom than any other country. Do not risk its destinies and its future through any folly or any fear of any gang in Ireland.""And we are to hand over Ireland to be made a base of the submarine fleet, and we are to trust to luck in our next war. Was there ever such lunacy proposed by anybody?"106"Then as to the Navy, Mr. Asquith says, 'Why not? They will not be so foolish as to spend money on the Navy.' They do not want to spend much money on submarines. They are vicious little craft. They are dangerous and perilous. But they are not expensive. I am not sure they cost as much as a respectable yacht. And mines you can have, and they are cheap, and those under full and complete Dominion Home Rule the Irish Republic can have.": One moment, all in good time. Had it been desired to swear allegiance to His Majesty, the King, all that was necessary was to add those simple straightforward words, "and to His Majesty, King George." But no. We have the word "allegiance" taken away and then we have the garbled, ununder-standable jumble of meaningless phrases which has been referred to. It goes on, after swearing faith and allegiance to the Irish Free State, "and I will be faithful," and then the words which the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Butcher) has dealt with so fully that it is unnecessary for me to deal with them again, conditional on the Free State continuing its membership of the "group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations," a thing which can be repudiated at any moment. The next thing which there was to be no going back upon was the supremacy of the British Navy. The British Navy alone shall be responsible for guarding the coasts of Great Britain and Ireland. In this Agreement the whole of that has been given away. The British Navy will no longer have any right, except in time of war, to guard the coast of Ireland. Ireland is to have its own coastal defence, and but for three ports, which are specified in the Schedule to the Agreement, where care parties of the British Navy are to be established, so far as Ireland is concerned the British Navy is to withdraw. I have referred to the speech of the Prime Minister at Carnarvon, and I should like to quote a few words on this point:
109pax BritannicaFlung her aside."Great-hearted Ulster—Scorned her, repulsed her—Trod on her pride,"Jeered at her loyalty,"Give it because it is right, give it because it is just, give it because it is good for Ireland and good for the United Kingdom, give it because it brings peace and good will, but do not give it because you are bullied by assassins."108"For the sake of Ireland they had better not have an army. Armies are expensive. Navies are expensive, too. Not only are they expensive, but they are also extremely dangerous, and may go off. So, on the whole, I think the Army and Navy had better be under the control of the Imperial Parliament. So far as I am concerned, and I am speaking on behalf of the Government, we shall certainly resist, out and out, any attempt for an army or navy being set up in Ireland, at our doors, to menace the existence of the United Kingdom."107"With a view to securing the observance of the principle of international limitation of armaments, if the Government of the Irish Free State establishes and maintains a military defence force, the establishments thereof shall not exceed in size such proportion of the military establishments maintained in Great Britain as that which the population of Ireland bears to the population of Great Britain.""Do not take these risks. This is a great country, a great country. It has done more for human freedom than any other country. Do not risk its destinies and its future through any folly or any fear of any gang in Ireland.""And we are to hand over Ireland to be made a base of the submarine fleet, and we are to trust to luck in our next war. Was there ever such lunacy proposed by anybody?"106"Then as to the Navy, Mr. Asquith says, 'Why not? They will not be so foolish as to spend money on the Navy.' They do not want to spend much money on submarines. They are vicious little craft. They are dangerous and perilous. But they are not expensive. I am not sure they cost as much as a respectable yacht. And mines you can have, and they are cheap, and those under full and complete Dominion Home Rule the Irish Republic can have."Sir W. DAVISON
105sine qua nonQui s'excuse s'accuse."This is not a humiliation; it is an achievement."104103: The Prime Minister, in his speech this afternoon, complained that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Paisley had not read his speeches. I think the complaint was justified, and that the Prime
105sine qua nonQui s'excuse s'accuse."This is not a humiliation; it is an achievement."104103Sir W. DAVISON
 (by Private Notice)asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether the Irish Government has at its disposal funds through which assistance can be given to those persons in the Southern Provinces who have had their homes burnt or their lands and effects appropriated by order of the Competent Authority of the Irish Republican Army; and, if not, will it endeavour to obtain same?Colonel NEWMAN
: In the arrangement or agreement arrived at between Dail Eireann and the British Government, has the subject been mentioned at all? Has any decision been arrived at?Colonel NEWMAN
 (by Private Notice)asked the Secretary of State for India whether he has any information to give before the House rises on the situation in Malabar?Sir J. D. REES
: Will Mr. Knapps' report, when received, be made available to Members of this House?Sir J. D. REES
: I do not think Ministers would find it convenient, but they will make it their duty to be present. As to the other question, we think it undesirable that Parliament should be prorogued before we know the result of the discussions now proceeding on the other side of the Channel, and we shall, therefore, if necessary, move a Motion that the House at its rising tomorrow do adjourn until Monday. I hope it may not be necessary.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: In view of the great number of hon. Members who have carefully watched this Debate, and have points of view that have not yet been stated by any speaker, would it not be possible, irrespective of the decision in Dublin, to go over until Monday, so that there may be opportunity for full Debate?Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
259: I have done my best to ascertain what would meet the general views of the House, and I gathered through the usual channels that there was a very real and general desire
259Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: The right hon. Gentleman will have observed that in almost every case where these negotiations take place it is usually with Members who have had an opportunity of addressing the House. There are definite points of great importance which have not been put before the House. That is most unfortunate, and as we are changing almost the entire constitution of the House and the country, leisurely and deliberate discussion ought to be allowed.Lieut.-Colonel WARD
260: The Government have certainly no desire unduly to curtail discussion. They want to carry the House with them, and to give the House such opportunity as it desires. That is not saying the same as that every Member who desires to address the
260Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: No, Sir. I hold quite the contrary view. I think it is important—and speaking for the Government, we think it is important—that whatever be the view taken in Dublin, and without waiting to ascertain it, the view of this House should be expressed.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
139138for the first time since his illness, taking his seat on, the third bench near the Ministerial Gangway: I am afraid that I must ask the indulgence of the House because I am suffering from a slight hoarseness. Before I say anything upon the Motion before us, may I take this opportunity—with which I am sure the whole House will be glad to associate themselves—of saying how pleased I am that we have back once more with us the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Central Glasgow [MR. BONAR LAW, 139138for the first time since his illness, taking his seat on, the third bench near the Ministerial GangwayMr. ASQUITH
: I have provided myself with a copy.The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
"No Irish Government would be so insane as to mortgage its scanty margin of resources for such a fruitless and costly enterprise as the creation of an Irish Navy.""No Irish Government would be so insane."140"In regard to naval and military forces I do not share the apprehensions of those who think it necessary to impose on the Irish
140: So have I. But just for a moment let me deal with this. My right hon. Friend quoted a letter which I had written to what he described as "my organ." I do not know what the "Times" will think of being described as "my organ." I know what I think when I hear it so described. What were the relations of the Prime Minister to the "Times" at the time I wrote this letter? They vary so much. I am not sure it did not appear during one, of those lovers' quarrels in which the estranged couple say hard words of one another. I wrote—it was on the 5th October, 1920:
"No Irish Government would be so insane as to mortgage its scanty margin of resources for such a fruitless and costly enterprise as the creation of an Irish Navy.""No Irish Government would be so insane."140"In regard to naval and military forces I do not share the apprehensions of those who think it necessary to impose on the Irish
140Mr. ASQUITH
: Yes.Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
"I would never agree to give Dominion self-government to Ireland on any other terms. In other words, apart from the special agreement, the British Navy, with all its overwhelming resources in material, personnel, equipment and experience, would always at any moment be able to use Irish ports for the purposes of Imperial defence.""a cardinal principle, quite apart from this special agreement of our naval relations with the self-governing Dominions of the Crown, that the Imperial Navy … is to have free access and unrestricted use of all their ports for all naval purposes."141"People say, and say with truth, that Ireland is close to our shores. They have all sorts of little ports and inlets and creeks into which not Dreadnought or battle-cruiser or battleship, but submarines could be secreted and used.""I tell you quite frankly that I do not believe that a Dominion of Ireland created upon the lines that I indicate would exercise or claim the right to create a Navy. She could get all her naval work done for her much cheaper by the Imperial Government. I do not believe they would ask the right to create a Navy in any of its various forms. They would be great fools if they did.""No grant of autonomy could be regarded as complete which did not include the right to raise and maintain for the purposes of local defence of an adequate military force.""Nor is it readily conceivable that it (the Irish Government) would seek to deny what it could never effectively prevent, the free access to Irish ports and harbours of vessels of the Imperial Navy.": Then it is an absurd demand, as they must have had the common sense to see, as it is not in the Treaty. I continued:
"I would never agree to give Dominion self-government to Ireland on any other terms. In other words, apart from the special agreement, the British Navy, with all its overwhelming resources in material, personnel, equipment and experience, would always at any moment be able to use Irish ports for the purposes of Imperial defence.""a cardinal principle, quite apart from this special agreement of our naval relations with the self-governing Dominions of the Crown, that the Imperial Navy … is to have free access and unrestricted use of all their ports for all naval purposes."141"People say, and say with truth, that Ireland is close to our shores. They have all sorts of little ports and inlets and creeks into which not Dreadnought or battle-cruiser or battleship, but submarines could be secreted and used.""I tell you quite frankly that I do not believe that a Dominion of Ireland created upon the lines that I indicate would exercise or claim the right to create a Navy. She could get all her naval work done for her much cheaper by the Imperial Government. I do not believe they would ask the right to create a Navy in any of its various forms. They would be great fools if they did.""No grant of autonomy could be regarded as complete which did not include the right to raise and maintain for the purposes of local defence of an adequate military force.""Nor is it readily conceivable that it (the Irish Government) would seek to deny what it could never effectively prevent, the free access to Irish ports and harbours of vessels of the Imperial Navy."Mr. ASQUITH
: I only want to say to my right hon. Friend that the only thing I said was that my right hon. Friend proposed Ireland should have the same free and unfettered right to raise an army and navy as the Dominions had. The quotation he reads now is from a speech he delivered after I had said that, and it shows I was absolutely correct when I said he did propose there should be no limitations and fetters which are not to be found elsewhere in our self-governing Dominions.The PRIME MINISTER
ærterna fæderaInvictœ gentes œterna in fœdera mittant"Invictœ gentes œterna in fœdera mittant"Paribus se legibus ambœ"Paribus se legibus ambœ144143142: What is there between us? It is complained that the agreement which you have made is one that gives to Ireland power to raise an army, to whatever limited extent, and gives her a power of menace against the United Kingdom and the Empire which ought never to be entrusted to her. But if you are going to give anything in the nature of Dominion self-government to Ireland, or to any other part of the Empire, it must be upon the footing that you believe that the larger and wider freedom you concede to them they can be trusted to use for common purposes. If you are going to give them all these great and wide powers, it must be because you think they will use them, not only in their own interests, but in the interests of the greater and wider partnership to which you are admitting them, and of which they have become spontaneous and for the first time voluntary members. Therefore, to base your objection, whether it be to the Army or Navy or any other form of reservation or concession, upon the theory that here, in the very heart of the Empire, you are arming potential enemies with weapons of aggression and offence, is to deny the very foundation of your scheme and to
ærterna fæderaInvictœ gentes œterna in fœdera mittant"Invictœ gentes œterna in fœdera mittant"Paribus se legibus ambœ"Paribus se legibus ambœ144143142Mr. ASQUITH
"and that I will be faithful to His Majesty King George V., his heirs and successors by law, in virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations."147"I … do solemnly swear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the Irish Free State as by law established."146145"this House regrets that the proposed settlement of the government of Ireland indicated in the Gracious Speech from the Throne involves the surrender of the rights of the Crown in Ireland, gives power to
145"we are ready to confirm and ratify these Articles in order that the same may be established for ever by the mutual consent of the peoples of Great Britain and Ireland, and we offer to Your Majesty our humble congratulations on the near accomplishment of that work of reconciliation to which Your Majesty has so largely contributed.": I beg to move to leave out the words
"and that I will be faithful to His Majesty King George V., his heirs and successors by law, in virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations."147"I … do solemnly swear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the Irish Free State as by law established."146145"this House regrets that the proposed settlement of the government of Ireland indicated in the Gracious Speech from the Throne involves the surrender of the rights of the Crown in Ireland, gives power to
145"we are ready to confirm and ratify these Articles in order that the same may be established for ever by the mutual consent of the peoples of Great Britain and Ireland, and we offer to Your Majesty our humble congratulations on the near accomplishment of that work of reconciliation to which Your Majesty has so largely contributed."Colonel GRETTON
: As long as it suits them.Sir J. REMNANT
155154153152151150149148: What does it mean? There is here no oath of allegiance to the King. There is no oath of allegiance to the Throne. The allegiance to the Throne is the bond that binds the British Empire together. This new Irish Free State is to be admitted as the one exception to that universal bond. What is the British Commonwealth of Nations? It does not exist. The Dominions beyond the seas have refused to submit to any constitutional change setting up a British Commonwealth of Nations. It has often been proposed to federate the British Empire, and to set up a Constitution in some form of Commonwealth, but it has always been refused. The Government have not been able to persuade the representatives of this new Irish Free State to swear allegiance to the Throne. They prefer allegiance to something else—allegiance to the Irish Free State, which is to be set up by an Act of this Imperial Parliament, and they swear fidelity to the King, as the President or the chief citizen of something which does not exist. Surely this is the most ridiculous and the least binding oath or form of oath that one could possibly conceive.155154153152151150149148Colonel GRETTON
"Laugh, and the world laughs with you; Cry, and you cry alone."156: I beg to second the Amendment."Laugh, and the world laughs with you; Cry, and you cry alone."156Mr. GWYNNE
: On a point of Order. Was not His Majesty the King an essential figure in that photograph?Mr. J. JONES
: That is not a point of Order.Mr. SPEAKER
157: What were they laughing at? Perhaps the Secretary for the Colonies, who, I understand, will reply on this Debate, will tell us what the joke
157Mr. GWYNNE
: They were laughing at you.Mr. J. JONES
: I was not photographed with them. If the hon. Member will think a little bit more of these poor suffering people in Ireland—Mr. GWYNNE
: I belong to them.Mr. JONES
: The hon. Member for Silvertown must, please, remember what I said to him on a previous occasion. He is here to listen. Other people listen when he speaks.Mr. SPEAKER
: I belong to a long-suffering race.Mr. JONES
: That is no reason for interrupting other people's speeches.Mr. SPEAKER
158"We predict that Imperialism has become a losing game. Ireland has taken the strongest Empire by the throat and has brought it to its knees. Ireland has proved that the soul of man has grown greater than Empire. And that fact will have a more enduring repercussion on mankind than had either the French Revolution or the Russian Revolution. Henceforward, no small nation will despair, no small people will accept slavery. We have shown the way and others will follow. Some of them are following. India and Egypt are following, and there will be a general awakening.": Were the Members of the Cabinet laughing because they had surrendered to intimidation and murder? It has been contended on behalf of the Government that this is not a surrender. I think my hon. and gallant Friend who moved the Address said that no one could contend that it was a surrender. I believe the Prime Minister said that the Sinn Feiners do not look upon it as a surrender. I have before me an extract from a paper, "New Ireland," which, I understand, is a Sinn Fein publication. Under date 10th December of this year, that paper said:
158"We predict that Imperialism has become a losing game. Ireland has taken the strongest Empire by the throat and has brought it to its knees. Ireland has proved that the soul of man has grown greater than Empire. And that fact will have a more enduring repercussion on mankind than had either the French Revolution or the Russian Revolution. Henceforward, no small nation will despair, no small people will accept slavery. We have shown the way and others will follow. Some of them are following. India and Egypt are following, and there will be a general awakening."Mr. GWYNNE
: They were plenipotentiaries. I protest against the plenipotentiaries of Ireland being called a murder gang.Mr. JONES
: Get out!HON. MEMBERS
: I will not get out. I do not care.Mr. JONES
: I protest against the plenipotentiaries of Ireland being called a murder gang in this House, and I am going to stand up for them. They were invited to a Conference by this Government. You can throw me out if you like, but I am going to stand up for them.Mr. JONES
: The hon. Member can make his protest in due course.Mr. SPEAKER
: On a point of Order. I hope I shall be allowed, before I am thrown out, to ask this question: Is it in order for an hon. Member to describe men, who have met representatives of another country as plenipotentiaries and who have been in consultation by invitation with the Government of this country, as a murder gang?Mr. JONES
: I must confess that my attention was withdrawn from the hon. Member's speech for the moment, and I did not hear what was actually said, but I do not think anything that has been said has called for my intervention. It is for me to interpose in any case of that kind.Mr. SPEAKER
: It was an abominable statement, anyhow.Mr. G. BARKER
: I hope I shall be allowed to proceed without interruption by the hon. Member for Silvertown. I am repeating merely words which have been used in the past by the Prime Minister and the Chief Secretary for Ireland.Mr. GWYNNE
: On a point of Order again. Before those words were used, before the negotiations took place, a kind of civil war was going on in Ireland, and since the negotiations—Mr. JONES
: That is a matter of argument which the hon. Member is entitled to bring forward in Debate.Mr. SPEAKER
: Leave the House!HON. MEMBERS
: Why do not Members opposite leave the House?Mr. BARKER
: It looks as if many hon. Members wish to take my place. If they will be good enough to leave to me my duties I shall be obliged to them.Mr. SPEAKER
160"Heaviness may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.": When I was interrupted I was dealing with the question of hasty action on the part of the Government. I was pointing out how I thought it rather indelicate to decide this important question in such an extreme hurry, and to ask other people to decide as well, because as soon apparently as the final terms were signed at 3 o'clock in the morning an emissary was sent off to Ulster by special train and special destroyer in order to get the very next day an answer from the Ulster Cabinet. That I do not think was a very fair proceeding. The Sinn Feiners were given as much time as they liked—months and months—but the Ulster Cabinet was asked for an answer on the next day. Furthermore, I ask was the way in which the news was given to this country very desirable? The Lord Chancellor galloped off to Birmingham with the right hon. Gentleman the Leader of the House as outrider waiving the white flag violently. He could not even wait until dinner time or evening to deliver himself of his speech. He had to do it at lunch. There he described the hectic time he had had the night before. It appeared to have been a cross between a wake and a nightmare. I am reminded of the saying of the Psalmist:
160"Heaviness may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning."Mr. GWYNNE
: Were you in his company?Mr. J. JONES
"My colleagues and I cannot meet you as representatives of a sovereign independent State without disloyalty on our part to the Throne and the Empire.""If you give self-determination you must go the whole length of planting an Irish Republic in Ireland."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 31st March, 1920; col. 1323, Vol. 127.]161"You cannot cast out a devil by calling in devils. You will not cure mischief which exists by the sublime admonitions of the Sermon on the Mount. The only way you can cure this is by force.": I said I was. During his speech the Lord Chancellor made reference to the group of which I am a member, and he described us as imbeciles. May I say this, and perhaps the Colonial Secretary will convey it to the Noble Lord, that if we are imbeciles to-day he must have been an imbecile last June, because we are upholding the same policy which he said was indispensable a few months ago. It is a pity he did not attempt to tell his audience at Birmingham what brought about his sanity. Referring to his speech of 21st June in the House of Lords I find he told some of the Bishops who were suggesting that a conference should take place between Sinn Fein and the Government:
"My colleagues and I cannot meet you as representatives of a sovereign independent State without disloyalty on our part to the Throne and the Empire.""If you give self-determination you must go the whole length of planting an Irish Republic in Ireland."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 31st March, 1920; col. 1323, Vol. 127.]161"You cannot cast out a devil by calling in devils. You will not cure mischief which exists by the sublime admonitions of the Sermon on the Mount. The only way you can cure this is by force."Mr. GWYNNE
indicated dissent. indicated dissent.The SECRETARY of STATE for the COLONIES (Mr. Churchill)
162: The Colonial Secretary shakes his head. Does the Colonial
162Mr. GWYNNE
: It is not settled yet.Sir W. DAVISON
: There is no allegiance.Mr. T. DONALD
163"I will not agree to any settlement which will not leave the British Navy the sole guardian of these shores.""If Ireland were given an army it would mean conscription, and we could not have in Ireland an army under the command of Arthur Griffiths and Michael Collins who have vowed destruction to this country.""We cannot consent to anything which would enable Ireland to organise an army and navy of its own.": Now let us take the question of the army. We are told now that Sinn Fein is to be allowed to set up an army. With my hon. and gallant Friend the Mover of this Amendment, I ask, Why and for what purpose? The Prime Minister said last year:
163"I will not agree to any settlement which will not leave the British Navy the sole guardian of these shores.""If Ireland were given an army it would mean conscription, and we could not have in Ireland an army under the command of Arthur Griffiths and Michael Collins who have vowed destruction to this country.""We cannot consent to anything which would enable Ireland to organise an army and navy of its own."Mr. GWYNNE
: Resign!Sir W. DAVISON
: You are going through it now.Mr. J. JONES
"The Irish temperament is too uncertain a factor for us to risk the whole life of Britain upon the chance that they would always act rationally and never lose their temper at the wrong moment."164: It would be very interesting to discover the real reason for this change of front on the part of the Government. Why have they turned from vowing vengeance on the murder gang and from upholding law and order? Why have they suddenly swung round and taken up a completely different attitude? We are told they have been impressed with the very patriotic spirit of the delegates who came over here. Before I deal with those delegates in detail, I would like to ask the Colonial Secretary this question: Is it or is it not a fact that for the last 18 months or two years the majority of Members of the Cabinet have had to be—and I daresay rightly—shadowed by detectives? Is it or is it not a fact that they barricaded Downing Street? Is it or is it not a fact that it was not even safe to come to this House of Commons, because they were afraid of being murdered by the Sinn Fein Party? If that is a fact that they were afraid of the Sinn Feiners, who has given the orders to release these very men who were the leaders of the Sinn Feiners? Were they suddenly impressed with the honesty of those. who had been threatening them for the last two years? But supposing they really are right, that Mr. Michael Collins and Mr. Arthur Griffith and their confederates are genuinely out now for a settlement, supposing they have really reformed, does the right hon. Gentleman not think it is a most gigantic gamble to trust to the virtue of four men to keep the whole of
"The Irish temperament is too uncertain a factor for us to risk the whole life of Britain upon the chance that they would always act rationally and never lose their temper at the wrong moment."164Mr. GWYNNE
: Very cheapMr. J. JONES
: How can you justify upholding law and order in this country if you allow these men to go about unpunished? And it is not only these four men, but apparently a Bill of Indemnity is to be brought in for the whole of these rebels. The other day I was at Victoria Station, and I saw five men handcuffed and chained together, and I asked who they were. They were being moved from one prison to another, serving terms of imprisonment for theft. Those men were walking handcuffed and bound in the streets, kept in confinement for robbing a house, when perhaps they were hungry, but these other men, organising murders, brutal murders, of women, and men dragged out of their beds and shot, going about—Mr. GWYNNE
: On a point of Order. Is it in order for a Member of this House to refer to another Member as a murderer.Mr. J. JONES
: I was listening very carefully, and intended at once to intervene if I had heard a charge made against a person not convicted. I do not think the hon. Member was making such a charge.Mr. SPEAKER
: He referred to a Member as a murderer.Mr. JONES
: I did not hear him so described. [An HON. MEMBER: "He said 'Organising murder.'"]Mr. SPEAKER
: Organising murder is worse than murder even.Mr. JONES
: I hope the hon. Member will remember that organising is a matter of opinion and that we have heard strong opinions from him.Mr. SPEAKER
: I have never been a murderer.Mr. JONES
: The hon. Member must not be so sensitive, when he remembers some of the strong speeches he him self has made.Mr. SPEAKER
: I never called a Member a murderer.Mr. JONES
169168167166: I am quite willing to bow to your ruling, Mr. Speaker, but if I had been called to order I think the same course would have had to be taken with regard to Members of the Front Bench who have referred so constantly to certain people in certain terms. We have been told time after time that one of the reasons why this Agreement has been made is because of the analogy with South Africa, but there is no analogy at all. In the case of South Africa, we were fighting a foe who fought in uniform, who were fighting us with an organised army, and they laid down their arms. Whether it was taking a risk or not to give them self-government so early—and in justice to the Colonial Secretary I must say that he was right and some of us were wrong—does he suggest that Mr. de Valera and Mr. Collins are the same type of men as General Smuts and General Botha? If you want to have an analogy and you want to use South Africa, the only analogy you can have is the Convention of Majuba, by which independence was given to the Transvaal, retaining the sovereignty of the Crown, and what was the result? The South African War. But apart from Ireland, what effect must
169168167166Mr. GWYNNE
171Interruption.170: I have always been a strong partisan of the liberties of Debate, and certainly I take no exception—save on one small point, which, I am sure, my hon. Friend will realise—to any of the taunts and sallies which he has made in his excellent and sprightly speech. Indeed, I was very much surprised that the hon. Member for Silver-town (Mr. J. Jones), who certainly does not bear the reputation of being mealy-mouthed, should have been brought into such a state of extreme agitation by language which, I should have thought, a man of his moral fibre and physical structure could have afforded to sustain with a fair degree of composure. Speaking on behalf of the Government, I do not at all complain that the case—the grave and serious case which has been deployed against the policy and the proposals which we have submitted to this House and country—should have been stated here formally, with reasoned consideration, by the two hon. Members who have moved and seconded the Amendment. But if I attempt to meet, or to deal with, the case which they have deployed, it is not with any desire to get into unnecessary controversy or to develop a provocative mode of speech. I am very anxious, indeed, that there should be the greatest. possible measure of agreement, that there should he the least possible division of opinion among those who in many matters equally essential think alike.171Interruption.170Mr. CHURCHILL
Interruption: It would not. [InterruptionMr. NEIL MACLEAN
: I am quite as entitled as the hon. Gentleman opposite to judge of the attitude of Scotland. I have sat for a constituency there for a much longer time than he has—Mr. CHURCHILL
: You do not belong to it.Mr. MACLEAN
:——and have a bigger majority than ever he has had.Mr. CHURCHILL
: I mix among the people. [HON. MEMBERS: "Order, order!"]Mr. MACLEAN
172: But, as I say, if there was no other way! That was the question which had to be resolved. Sir, it has been resolved. Another way has been found. We believe that since that way has been found, a new, a completely new situation has been created. Let me ask the House to consider how these negotiations which have reached a conclusion originated. Have the Mover and Seconder of the Amendment considered that? It is quite true, as my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister reminded me when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Paisley (Mr. Asquith) was speaking, that we announced in this House last year that we were perfectly ready to
172Mr. CHURCHILL
: I do not want to interrupt the right hon. Gentleman, but it is hardly fair to say that Sir James Craig sought Mr. de Valera. It is well known that Mr. de Valera asked for an interview with Sir James.Captain CRAIG
173: Certainly, I do not desire to take any advantage involved in that point. Sir James Craig undoubtedly responded to that invitation by an act of statesmanship and superb courage, full of hope for the future, and probably destined when the passions of this time are dead to rank among the most famous and fruitful of the episodes of Irish history. That was the beginning of all that evolution of opinion in the Cabinet and in the country which has led us to our present position. What was the second step?173Mr. CHURCHILL
: Hear, hear!Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
174"is a further encouraging sign that the influence of fanatics and extremists on both sides is gradually giving place to a growing disposition towards a settlement by conciliation and compromise. The hope of permanent peace in Ireland depends upon those two leaders meeting again, as in my opinion they will, and upon their agreeing on some plan acceptable to the two sections of the Irish people.…"The meeting between Sir James Craig and Mr. de Valera on the 5th inst. must be regarded as an event of the first political importance. With the doubtful exception of the Convention of 1917–18, which was held at a time when Mr. Redmond's authority to speak on behalf of the majority of Southern Irishmen had already been seriously challenged, this is the first occasion in modern history on which duly accredited representatives of the North and South of Ireland have met of their own initiative, and without the intervention of British statesmen, to discuss the differences that have so long divided the two sections of the Irish people. Although neither Sir James Craig nor Mr. de Valera appears to have emerged from the interview with his convictions in any degree shaken, the fact of their having entered into direct negotiations has produced a deep impression in the minds of men in all parties and has materially improved the prospects of peace. The consensus of approval given to the meeting by the Press of the whole country—: —far less than justice from both sides of the House, and from all three of the great parties in the State. I am going to read to the House the report which my right hon. Friend made on 7th May. It is as follows:
174"is a further encouraging sign that the influence of fanatics and extremists on both sides is gradually giving place to a growing disposition towards a settlement by conciliation and compromise. The hope of permanent peace in Ireland depends upon those two leaders meeting again, as in my opinion they will, and upon their agreeing on some plan acceptable to the two sections of the Irish people.…"The meeting between Sir James Craig and Mr. de Valera on the 5th inst. must be regarded as an event of the first political importance. With the doubtful exception of the Convention of 1917–18, which was held at a time when Mr. Redmond's authority to speak on behalf of the majority of Southern Irishmen had already been seriously challenged, this is the first occasion in modern history on which duly accredited representatives of the North and South of Ireland have met of their own initiative, and without the intervention of British statesmen, to discuss the differences that have so long divided the two sections of the Irish people. Although neither Sir James Craig nor Mr. de Valera appears to have emerged from the interview with his convictions in any degree shaken, the fact of their having entered into direct negotiations has produced a deep impression in the minds of men in all parties and has materially improved the prospects of peace. The consensus of approval given to the meeting by the Press of the whole country—Mr. CHURCHILL
: What about allegiance?Sir W. DAVISON
: What about the Navy?An HON. MEMBER
: I am going to refer to these matters. I say every one of these conditions is embodied in the Agreement, and the Government is perfectly prepared to deal at length and in detail with every one of these points. If I have not time to deal with them all, other Ministers will, and every point will be rigorously and rigidly defended.Mr. CHURCHILL
: The Prime Minister did not deal with allegiance yesterday.Sir W. DAVISON
177176175: As a matter of fact, I am going to deal with it. I say that our debt to Ulster is great. Not only has Ulster shown unswerving loyalty and allegiance to the British Empire, but she has taken the most important steps to promote peace in Ireland. It is no longer open to anyone to say that Ulster is barring the way to the rest of Ireland, that Ulster is forbidding the rest of Ireland to have the kind of government
177176175Mr. CHURCHILL
: Why should they not take the Canadian oath?Sir W. DAVISON
"With all our great majority we can only make this the gift of a party, but you can make it the gift of Britain as a whole."183182181180179178: The oath they are asked to take is more carefully and precisely drawn than the existing oath, and it was chosen because it was more acceptable to the people whose allegiance we are seeking, and whose incorporation in the British Empire we are earnestly desirous of securing."With all our great majority we can only make this the gift of a party, but you can make it the gift of Britain as a whole."183182181180179178Mr. CHURCHILL
194de jurede factode factode jurede jurede factode jure.de facto193de jure,de facto"In the interests of the Associated States, in the interests, above all, of England herself, it is essential that the present de jure,de facto"The only association satisfactory to all concerned will be one based, not on the present technical, legal status of the Dominions, but on the real position which they claim and have, in fact, secured.""As full-grown children, the Colonies are restive under the appearance of parental restraint, though willing to co-operate with the parent on an equal footing in regard to family matters. Ireland, as a separate nation, would naturally be more restive under any control of the neighbouring nation."192"There is a great conspiracy based on Ireland to smash the British Empire."191Que Messieurs les commencent.190189188187186185"We were quite ready and prepared last year to negotiate if we could have got anyone to negotiate with us";184: Before the right hon. Gentleman who has just addressed the House arrived at his very interesting, if somewhat vehement and, perhaps, a little bombastic peroration, he made an observation to the effect that the proposals which are now before the House for settling the Irish question were not a triumph of party, but were really a compromise; and he implied, if he did not say it, that they could not be regarded as extreme. No doubt, if anyone were to propose that the right hon. Gen-
194de jurede factode factode jurede jurede factode jure.de facto193de jure,de facto"In the interests of the Associated States, in the interests, above all, of England herself, it is essential that the present de jure,de facto"The only association satisfactory to all concerned will be one based, not on the present technical, legal status of the Dominions, but on the real position which they claim and have, in fact, secured.""As full-grown children, the Colonies are restive under the appearance of parental restraint, though willing to co-operate with the parent on an equal footing in regard to family matters. Ireland, as a separate nation, would naturally be more restive under any control of the neighbouring nation."192"There is a great conspiracy based on Ireland to smash the British Empire."191Que Messieurs les commencent.190189188187186185"We were quite ready and prepared last year to negotiate if we could have got anyone to negotiate with us";184Mr. RONALD McNEILL
: Will the hon. Member tell me why he cannot understand my taking that course?Mr. CHAMBERLAIN (Leader of the House)
: Yes. I will tell the right hon. Gentleman. I cannot understand his position because, among other things, I have a very clear recollection of a very eloquent speech which he made from the other side of the House when he welcomed the proposal to exclude Ulster from the Home Rule Bill of 1912, on the expressed ground that if Ulster was excluded it would put an end for ever to the idea of "Ireland a nation." That is one reason. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman had forgotten it. I had not.Mr. McNEILL
: I remember it.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
196195: It is only another case of the white sheet. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman will put on another white sheet. He always puts on the white sheet for Unionist policy. I have very little doubt that we shall all of us, unless we are suddenly cut off, live long enough to hear the right hon. Gentleman, either in this House or on some platform in the country, saying that the proposal for Colonial preference was the supremest folly ever presented to this House. I have no doubt that that will come in time. Meanwhile in this Agreement there is a good deal for discussion. Much has been said about Ulster. I say that the treatment of Ulster in this matter has been utterly shabby from the beginning to the end. First of all, the Government made proposals in November which they were not willing to admit. They allowed the Press to get hold of what was being done, but they would not allow this House to know what was being done. I did know,
196195Mr. McNEILL
"He is far more bigoted and unreasonable than Lord Carson ever was."201"It is not our business to seek for facts agreeable to anybody, but to seek for the facts whether they are agreeable or not. In the North-East of Ireland you have a population, a fairly solid population, a homogeneous population, alien in race, alien in sympathies, alien in religion, alien in tradition, alien in outlook from the rest of the population of Ireland. It would be an outrage on the principles of self-government to place them under the rule of the remainder of the population.""I deprecate extremely going back in retrospect to the speeches in previous Debates of any Gentleman whatever."200"Surely there is no harm in trying to persuade Ulster."199198197: If I may be allowed I should like, as my first word, to thank my right hon. Friend the Member for Paisley (Mr. Asquith) for the very kindly reference which he made to my return. I feel that I owe a debt of apology to the House for being here and for addressing them this afternoon. [HON. MEMBERS: "No!"] When a man has had the good fortune to read his own obsequies, his own obituary notices, it shows very bad
"He is far more bigoted and unreasonable than Lord Carson ever was."201"It is not our business to seek for facts agreeable to anybody, but to seek for the facts whether they are agreeable or not. In the North-East of Ireland you have a population, a fairly solid population, a homogeneous population, alien in race, alien in sympathies, alien in religion, alien in tradition, alien in outlook from the rest of the population of Ireland. It would be an outrage on the principles of self-government to place them under the rule of the remainder of the population.""I deprecate extremely going back in retrospect to the speeches in previous Debates of any Gentleman whatever."200"Surely there is no harm in trying to persuade Ulster."199198197Mr. BONAR LAW
: We always have.Mr. LYNN
205204203202: She has the right also to say, and I am perfectly sure that the Government which has been so much abused and the House of Commons and the country will take care, that, what- ever happens, she will not be worse treated than other sections of the United Kingdom. Sir James Craig came to see me at the time that Ulster was being urged to join an All-Ireland Parliament. Without expressing my own view at all to him, I said, "You will be given the alternative of going into an All-Ireland Parliament or paying our taxes." He said, "We would jump at it. We would jump at paying your taxes, at being in the same position as the rest of you," and that is the position of Ulster. One of the grounds on which this Agreement has been attacked is that Ulster would be subject to unfair economic pressure which would coerce her into an All-Ireland Parliament. According to these Articles of Agreement, the new Irish Parliament is not to escape their payment of the National Debt, and I do not see why it is assumed that the arbitrator will make that debt much less than it is supposed to be now. The Agreement says that it is to be the fair amount due by Ireland, and I do not see why it is to be assumed that it is going to be greatly reduced, but, apart from that, you will never get- low taxation, whether you contribute to the Imperial Fund or not, unless there is good government205204203202Mr. BONAR LAW
: That is not true of the South.Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: Not in the South.Captain REDMOND
206: If it is true—it is an argument which in the old days I used with Southern Unionists—if that bigotry should continue, the Ulster people will form a solid and powerful block on the one side, and for a long time there will be divisions on the old religious lines. If we get the Parliaments started and working freely for some years, in the South at least, and I hope in the North, you will find people separating quickly on the same grounds as in other communities, and later on it will be far easier to have a union for the whole of Ireland.206Mr. BONAR LAW
: They are all on the Front Bench.Sir F. BANBURY
209208207: My right hon. Friend says they are all on the Front Bench. The union brought immense material advantages to Scotland. They had been shut out from all English trade, but in course of time the obvious improvement of conditions in Scotland reconciled the people to the union. In Ireland we had the union and absolutely no benefits of any kind were given to the Irish people. If Pitt had succeeded in what he intended, the whole history of Ireland might have been different. It is quite true that in our generation there have been benefits and we have found a proof of them. After ten years, I will not say of resolute government, but of decided government, we found the benefits in 1906, when Mr. John Redmond told us that his country had never been so prosperous. But it came too late. Members who were present in the last Parliament will recall the speech of Major William Redmond. It was a speech to which I, as the then Leader of the House, had to reply. There was a man almost as old as myself, who had not only taken our side in the War, but had actually gone into active service in the
209208207Mr. BONAR LAW
210: I feel it necessary to intervene in this Debate, having regard to the fact that I am one of those concerned in the making of the truce in Ireland, and having regard to the further fact that I represent a Southern Irish constituency. It is my intention to support the Government in regard to this Treaty. I think we get to the bedrock of this matter when we ask ourselves the question which has been put by the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last, in the course of that very able speech, namely, what is the alternative policy? Gentlemen in this House, although they have been full of sympathy with us in Ireland, have been uninformed, insufficiently informed, at any rate, as to what was really transpiring in Ireland. Do they realise that one might be shot either by Sinn Fein, or by the forces of the Crown, when in pursuit of one's ordinary avocations, in the streets of any of our cities? Do they realise that, as a matter of fact, a great many innocent, people were shot while walking through the streets, and that there is one case of a poor man who, after a long life, was killed in his bed by an accidental shot? Is the alternative to these proposals to be the devastation of Ireland by fire and sword? The Government have already resorted to very drastic measures in Ireland, and unless
210Sir M. DOCKRELL
: Have you got the wind up?Mr. T. DONALD
211: No, I have not got the wind up. It is easy for gentlemen who sit at home of ease in Ulster to lecture us about getting the wind up.
211Sir M. DOCKRELL
: I have a sister there.Mr. DONALD
212: If you lived there and if you heard the rifle fire as we heard it before the truce, going on all round you night and day, and if you said goodbye to your family every morning never expecting to see them again, then perhaps you would not talk as some of you have done. In the circumstances that have arisen in Ireland, I say to my hon. Friend that they must not blame us if we turn our attention to those whom we consider can give us good government, and there have been indications, to which I cannot be oblivious, that Sinn Fein means to give us good government. It may be, as the right hon. Gentleman has just said, a considerable time before we have an ideal Government, but my opinion is that these men—and I sat with them for some days—earnestly desire if they get the government of Ireland to do their very best to govern us well.212Sir M. DOCKRELL
216215214213: The hon. Member for Rathmines (Sir M. Dockrell) has, I think, summed up the situation from his Sinn Fein friends' point of view—"How much are you going to pay us?" That is exactly what lies behind the Sinn Fein movement: How much can we get out of it—not How much can we give to Ulster or to the Empire? As far as we are concerned, I may tell them quite frankly that we have no intention whatever of joining with men whose hands are dripping with the blood of our friends, and I hope the hon. Member and the others who are asking us to go into a Dublin Parliament, will take that as a final answer from Ulster. So far as Ulster is concerned, there is no desire to be associated with murderers, to say nothing of the people who tried to stab Great Britain in the back during the Great War. One feels a difficulty in following the Prime. Minister. The Prime Minister is such a clever acrobat that you do not know exactly where he is, and you feel when he has made a speech, if you reply to it, that he probably has changed his opinion before you have spoken yours. I know he is very versatile. He has made this country a country fit for heroes to dwell in, and he is now going to make Ireland a country safe for murderers to operate in. I do not know what he expects to get. I know there is a strong feeling over the country that the Government, in giving way as it has done to murder and outrage, has betrayed the interests of every loyal man, not only in Ireland, but in Great Britain and the Empire. The Prime Minister may say there is no cowardice, and that this is done out of the bounty of our hearts, but I submit that, all over the South and West of Ireland, the people look at this thing—and I think rightly—as if they have beaten the British Gov-
216215214213Mr. LYNN
: "When father says 'Turn,' we all turn."Dr. MURRAY
: I hope the House will register its emphatic opinion that this Treaty is one that should not be passed by the House. I remember, many years ago, the late Mr. Gladstone, speaking of the Parnellite party, said they were marching through rapine and murder to the dismemberment of the Empire. I would say, with regard to the present Government, that it is crawling over the bodies of its murdered servants to the same end.Mr. LYNN
"That the Registrar be instructed to write on behalf of the Board to the members for the University at Westminster, and to the members for the University in the Southern Irish Parliament, and to express the hope that they will find it possible to support the terms of settlement for the future government of Ireland, already accepted by the British Cabinet and by the delegates from Dail Eireann. The true interest of Trinity College can only be furthered by Irish peace, and in the building up of happier conditions in Ireland, the Board of Trinity College believes that Trinity men should take an active and a sympathetic part."217: I hope the Prime Minister will permit me to offer him my congratulations on having brought this Conference to so successful a conclusion. If I may say so without offence, he has done a big thing, and he has done it in a big way. The Unionists in the South of Ireland have received the news of this agreement with feelings of satisfaction that can only be appreciated by those who have lived there in recent years, and perhaps by those who have got imagination to visualise what would have happened had these negotiations fallen through. I think I am correct in saying that the majority of Southern Unionists have for a long time seen that there was no other possibility of settlement of the age-long struggle, and the healing of this Irish sore, except through a Conference. Now it may be gratuitous to suggest that this Conference ought to have taken place long ago. The Prime Minister expressed his opinion that that was not possible. I disagree, but however that may be, it is right that this should be said, that if it did not take place a considerable time ago, the fault does not lie at the door of the Southern Unionists. As a body, we welcome it now. Most of us,
"That the Registrar be instructed to write on behalf of the Board to the members for the University at Westminster, and to the members for the University in the Southern Irish Parliament, and to express the hope that they will find it possible to support the terms of settlement for the future government of Ireland, already accepted by the British Cabinet and by the delegates from Dail Eireann. The true interest of Trinity College can only be furthered by Irish peace, and in the building up of happier conditions in Ireland, the Board of Trinity College believes that Trinity men should take an active and a sympathetic part."217Sir R. WOODS
223222221quid pro quo220219218: I wish to draw the attention of the House to some matters of very vital importance to the people of Ulster, not only from their local point of view, but from the Imperial point of view.223222221quid pro quo220219218Mr. W. COOTE
225"God bless me and my wife, and my son John, and his wife, us four and no more, for ever more, Amen."224: As an Irishman representing an English constituency, I want to say a few words on this all-important question. Let me at the outset congratulate the Prime Minister and the Government, although I am not tied in any way to the Government, for I never received their coupon, and therefore the support I give them is entirely voluntary—let me congratulate them upon bringing about this peace. In my opinion the country owes them a deep debt of gratitude, and so, indeed, does the whole world, for what they have done. The King at Belfast made a speech. What I wonder is that the loyal people of Belfast, as they call themselves, and the loyal people of this country, have seemed to ignore the advice given by His Majesty on that occasion. I have heard a good deal about the religious question. Let me say here that in the South and West of Ireland, as I know full well, we have no religious difficulty whatever. There no man has ever suffered on account of his religion. He may have suffered on account of his politics, but never on account of his religious belief. In fact, part of the education in the South and West of Ireland is religious toleration, and in my early days, in the National Schools, there was exhibited a card upon which was printed in large type, "A General Lesson." At the hour of noon each day the headmaster of the school had it as a duty to read that General Lesson to the scholars and, let hon. Members remember, these are schools whose managers are the parish priests of Ireland. This so impressed me that I can almost repeat certain words of that General Lesson, and I will endeavour to do so if the House will permit. It starts by saying that Christians should endeavour, as the Apostle Paul commanded
225"God bless me and my wife, and my son John, and his wife, us four and no more, for ever more, Amen."224Major MALONE
: That is the fault of the Nationalists. They opposed the Bill.Mr. McGUFFIN
: I hope that these things will all be forgotten, and that a saner policy will prevail. I hope that this Agreement will be ratified by the present House of Commons, and that it will bring peace between the peoples of these countries.Major MALONE
"Mr. HOGGE asked whether the Chief Secretary could give the name of the Commander-in-Chief and the Chief of Staff of the Irish Republican Army."Recently we captured some intimate despatches of a man who calls himself the Commander-in-Chief and another who calls himself the Chief of the Staff of the Irish Republican Army. We found from these despatches that over £7,500 had been spent in wages in organising the headquarters of the Irish Republican Army between 10th July and the 30th September last. This is the centre of the murder gang; that is where the money comes from to pay for assassination."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 24th November, 1920; cols. 505–6, Vol. 135.]"I do not want to delay the House, but I should like to go into certain other matters in order to bring before the House and the country the real issue—not the debating issue, not the propaganda issue, but the real issue—namely, the organisation of this conspiracy in Ireland, subsidised by foreign money, which has as its object the smashing of the British Empire."230"Ireland was a real peril. They were in touch with German submarines. There it stands at the gateway of Britain. You cannot turn to the right, you cannot turn to the left, except by either the right or the left gate of Ireland. I saw a map the other day that had been captured, a German map circulated to show how Britain was having her fleet destroyed. The coast of Ireland was black with British ships they had sunk, in the Atlantic, in the Irish Sea, and in the St. George's Channel. It is girdled with British wrecks, yes, and British seamen are there, too. We are to hand over Ireland to be made a base of the submarine fleet, and we are to trust to luck in our next war. Was there ever such lunacy proposed by anybody?"229228"The part played by the Monarch has added dignity and splendour to the Throne."227"It is a British characteristic, though not an agreeable one, that once we are beaten we go over in a body to the successful enemy and too often abandon and cold-shoulder and snub, both in action and in writing, the suffering few who adhered to our cause in evil and difficult times."226: I do not know that I would like to follow my hon. and gallant Friend into the discussion he has raised. I rather like my hon. and gallant Friend, and I would not care to say any-thing that would hurt his feelings in any way, more particularly from the religious standpoint. It may be that he sees through green spectacles while I see through orange, and perhaps, if we are inclined to do that, our words and our lives will be coloured accordingly. I have been an Orangeman for, I suppose, almost 30 years, and I am not ashamed to say that this is the first time I have heard that humorous prayer of the Orangeman which my hon. and gallant Friend quoted. I can assure him that the one we use is very different. My hon. and gallant Friend referred to the school to which he used to go, and I can quite appreciate
"Mr. HOGGE asked whether the Chief Secretary could give the name of the Commander-in-Chief and the Chief of Staff of the Irish Republican Army."Recently we captured some intimate despatches of a man who calls himself the Commander-in-Chief and another who calls himself the Chief of the Staff of the Irish Republican Army. We found from these despatches that over £7,500 had been spent in wages in organising the headquarters of the Irish Republican Army between 10th July and the 30th September last. This is the centre of the murder gang; that is where the money comes from to pay for assassination."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 24th November, 1920; cols. 505–6, Vol. 135.]"I do not want to delay the House, but I should like to go into certain other matters in order to bring before the House and the country the real issue—not the debating issue, not the propaganda issue, but the real issue—namely, the organisation of this conspiracy in Ireland, subsidised by foreign money, which has as its object the smashing of the British Empire."230"Ireland was a real peril. They were in touch with German submarines. There it stands at the gateway of Britain. You cannot turn to the right, you cannot turn to the left, except by either the right or the left gate of Ireland. I saw a map the other day that had been captured, a German map circulated to show how Britain was having her fleet destroyed. The coast of Ireland was black with British ships they had sunk, in the Atlantic, in the Irish Sea, and in the St. George's Channel. It is girdled with British wrecks, yes, and British seamen are there, too. We are to hand over Ireland to be made a base of the submarine fleet, and we are to trust to luck in our next war. Was there ever such lunacy proposed by anybody?"229228"The part played by the Monarch has added dignity and splendour to the Throne."227"It is a British characteristic, though not an agreeable one, that once we are beaten we go over in a body to the successful enemy and too often abandon and cold-shoulder and snub, both in action and in writing, the suffering few who adhered to our cause in evil and difficult times."226Lieut.-Colonel Sir W. ALLEN
233"If Northern Ireland were part of the Irish State, its contribution would be voluntary like those of the Dominions."232"His Majesty's Government are fully aware of the objections which the people of Northern Ireland may feel to participation on any terms in an All-Ireland Parliament. They have therefore been examining some alternatives, and their study has convinced them that grave difficulties would be raised in all parts of Ireland if the jurisdiction over the reserved subjects were not conferred upon a common authority."231"What is the decision that we have come to in this Treaty? Ulster has her optior
231: Michael Collins and Richard Mulcahy respectively."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 22nd November, 1920; cols. 64–65, Vol. 135.]233"If Northern Ireland were part of the Irish State, its contribution would be voluntary like those of the Dominions."232"His Majesty's Government are fully aware of the objections which the people of Northern Ireland may feel to participation on any terms in an All-Ireland Parliament. They have therefore been examining some alternatives, and their study has convinced them that grave difficulties would be raised in all parts of Ireland if the jurisdiction over the reserved subjects were not conferred upon a common authority."231"What is the decision that we have come to in this Treaty? Ulster has her optior
231Sir H. GREENWOOD
242241240239238237236235primâ facie234: We are presented with a very grave and a very doubtful issue, and I heard with some surprise the statements made by various Members of the Government of their belief that in this matter they had the almost universal support of the citizens of Great Britain. The Secretary for the Colonies, with, I think, an inaccurate knowledge of fractions, put it as high as nineteen-twentieths. I am sceptical of these extraordinary figures, and I believe that His Majesty's Government on this particular question is in for a fairly quick awakening. There has been a very great change in the position, and if there is one thing true about the English people, and to a large extent about the Scottish, it is that they do not turn so very quickly as the Government has done, with almost Celtic celerity. I do not think that the mass of the English people were fully prepared for such a
242241240239238237236235primâ facie234Mr. MACQUISTEN
245244243: The speech we have heard this afternoon from the right hon. Member for Central Glasgow (Mr. Bonar Law) is one that interested every Member of this House, and as a humble back bencher I should like to say that I join with others in rejoicing over his restoration to health and the fact that he is back here in order to advise us once more. Personally I took very little exception to most of the right hon. Gentleman's speech. I thought it was a most damning indictment of this Agreement. My only trouble is that, although his speech was so effective from the point of view of those who agree with me, I am afraid that his vote is going to be rather different from the general teachings of his speech. If one understood the right hon. Gentleman aright, it seems to me he is quite clear in his mind that in six months' time—that was the period he mentioned—this country is going to agree, not with His Majesty's Government, but with the "Die-hards," who take a different view now. He is most anxious lest in six months' time Ireland will be in a state of chaos. If we have any doubt on that question and think it may be worse then than it is to-day, I venture to think we need no further justification for going into the Lobby for this Amendment to the Address. If the Government is right to-night, then I say there was never a greater tragedy than the attitude of the Government during the past two years; everything they told the House of Commons, without exception, was wrong; every pledge they made then to this House and to the nation has been broken, and every justification for their past harsh conduct, as I suppose it would be called in Ireland, has gone. When they pledged their word to this House that they would stamp out the murder gang, the House of Commons believed them and supported them by extraordinary majorities, but if the Government did not mean what they said, what right had they to sacrifice the lives of 600 men of the Army and the police in carrying out a policy which they never meant to see carried to fruition?245244243Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Pay their pensions!Lieut.-Colonel ARCH ER-SHEE
247246"Is there any Noble Lord in this House, whether he conies from Ireland or any part of His Majesty's Dominion, prepared to sanction a financial policy which in the first place will enable Southern Ireland to erect a tariff wall discriminatory against the manufactures of this country and in the second place will provide Northern and Southern Ireland respectively with machinery which will enable them to erect tariff walls discriminatory against one another's manufactures? I have not heard a single protagonist of these proposals who has ever had the courage to get up in either House and say, This is what I mean by fiscal autonomy, and I am in favour of it.' Unless one has faced this it is, I think, not only useless but mischievous to use phrases which have no correspondence with any intention in the mind of any statesman.": Obviously that is their bounden duty following the pledge of honour. Further than that, everybody knows, except a certain section of the Press, that there is a most fiendish boycott going on in that country against Northern Ireland. There is nothing in this Agreement to stop the boycott. We must demand that some safeguard should be put in to prevent that going on. The most essential thing is that in this Agree-merit the Government have not put in one word to the effect that Dominion Home Rule would only be granted if there is a cessation of crime and outrage in Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary (Mr. Churchill) told us this afternoon that he "-could not conceive how fiscal autonomy could be any peril to this country; Ulster could be upheld." I want to read what the Lord Chancellor said in the House of Lords again in this most useful speech in June last. It was to this effect:
247246"Is there any Noble Lord in this House, whether he conies from Ireland or any part of His Majesty's Dominion, prepared to sanction a financial policy which in the first place will enable Southern Ireland to erect a tariff wall discriminatory against the manufactures of this country and in the second place will provide Northern and Southern Ireland respectively with machinery which will enable them to erect tariff walls discriminatory against one another's manufactures? I have not heard a single protagonist of these proposals who has ever had the courage to get up in either House and say, This is what I mean by fiscal autonomy, and I am in favour of it.' Unless one has faced this it is, I think, not only useless but mischievous to use phrases which have no correspondence with any intention in the mind of any statesman."Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
248: Before I deal with the terms of the Amendment before the House I propose, if the House will allow me, to answer some specific questions which have been addressed to the Government which I think ought to be answered at once. My hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Finsbury (Lieut.-Colonel Archer-Shee) and my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Horsham (Earl Winterton) asked about the position of the Royal Irish Constabulary. I think that is a most pertinent question and important, and for better accuracy I propose to read the answer of the Government. The Treaty contains a provision securing the existing public servants compensation on terms not less favourable than those accorded by the Government of Ireland Act, 1920. The Government are fully conscious of their obligation towards those who have been and will shortly cease to be under their control as servants of the State. Having regard to the nature of the duties which the members of the Royal Irish Constabulary have been required to discharge, the position of that force is one calling for special treatment, and the Government are now considering the best means of effecting the necessary changes in a manner which, while adequately safeguarding the interests of the taxpayer, will do justice to the members of that very gallant force. His Majesty's Government will be the ultimate guarantor of the payments and pensions of this force. That, I hope, will allay the very natural fears of the Royal Irish Constabulary and show them that the Government is not endeavouring to evade any responsi-
248The SECRETARY of STATE for WAR (Sir Laming Worthington-Evans)
: Will the right hon. Gentleman see that the whole facts of this matter are brought to the public notice? Will he endeavour to see that no evidence is kept back?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
"I … do solemnly swear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the Irish Free State as by law established."249: I am sure the hon. and gallant Gentleman does not suggest we are willing to keep back anything. This case is before the courts at the present moment—at any rate a week ago it was before the police court. The evidence is being brought out in the police court, and I can assure the hon. and gallant Gentleman there certainly will he no endeavour whatever to prevent the evidence coming out. On the contrary the whole evidence will be brought out."I … do solemnly swear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of the Irish Free State as by law established."249Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: Would the right hon. Gentleman excuse me for interrupting him for one moment? I made the accusation yesterday, not that they had a right to set up a Republic, but that, if they did set up a Republic, they would be excused by this very oath from their allegiance.Captain CRAIG
: That is precisely the point with which I was endeavouring to deal. That part of the oath is an oath of allegiance to the Constitution "as by law established." The Constitution as by law established will not be a Republican Constitution; it will be a Constitution in the terms of paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Treaty, namely, a State within the Empire. It is the exact contradiction of the point which my hon. Friend was trying to make.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: Has it not been stated by Ministers that the Dominions can separate themselves from us?Mr. GWYNNE
"I will be faithful to His Majesty King George V., his heirs and successors by law.""It was a declaration of fidelity to the reigning Sovereign.": No, that has never been stated, and I suggest to my hon. Friend that he should really read the words of the statement to which he refers. He is not accurate in his present representation of them. Then it was suggested by the hon. Member for Burton that this oath contained no allegiance to the Throne, but merely fidelity to the King. I have not time to go into the history of the oaths which have from time to time been taken in this Parliament, but I did have time, while the hon. Member was speaking, to look up Anson on Constitutional Law, and I extracted this: There were at one time three oaths. There was the Oath of Allegiance, and this is how Anson defines it:
"I will be faithful to His Majesty King George V., his heirs and successors by law.""It was a declaration of fidelity to the reigning Sovereign."Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: Would the right hon. Gentleman say why the word "allegiance" is used before the Free State and not before the King? It is purposely put in in one case and not in the other.Sir W. DAVISON
251: I am sorry, but the hon. Member has already addressed the House. I have less than 20
251Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: Hear, hear!Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: And the hon. and gallant Gentleman now supports him. Does he mean that power to raise a navy is insinuated in the Agreement? I really do not understand the phrase. There is an actual provision that there shall be no such navy.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: For five years.Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
"The foregoing provisions of this Article shall be reviewed at a conference of representatives of the British and Irish Governments to be held at the expiration of five years.": There is no provision that there shall be a navy in five years. The hon. and gallant Gentleman taunted me that I had signed an Agreement that was contrary to the statement I made at Liverpool. It is not true. It is not the fact. There is no agreement here that there shall be a navy in five years. On the contrary, Clause 6 provides that until an arrangement is made the defence by sea of Great Britain and Ireland shall be undertaken by His Majesty's imperial Forces. Then it goes on:
"The foregoing provisions of this Article shall be reviewed at a conference of representatives of the British and Irish Governments to be held at the expiration of five years."Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: It means nothing. It is all humbug.Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
253"Five years from the date hereof with a view, to the undertaking by Ireland of a share in her own coastal defence.": I will tell you exactly what it means.
253"Five years from the date hereof with a view, to the undertaking by Ireland of a share in her own coastal defence."Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: That is not so.Mr. R. McNEILL
: The hon. Gentleman says that is not so. He has only to read the correspondence and ho will see that it is so. If Ulster had come they might have said, "All the safeguards proposed are inadequate." They might have said, "With none of these safeguards can we agree." What would have been the result? They would have acquired the option which they have now got, to come in or remain out, as they themselves determine. That would have been the result if they had come to the Conference. Surely they have not got more by not coming to the Conference than they would have got if they had come to the Conference. They have the option now. Is it suggested that they would not have got it if they had come to the Conference? Of course they would have got it. If when they had explored all the safeguards, they had come to the conclusion that they were inadequate, they would have got exactly the same option that they now have.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: I do not want to interrupt the right hon. Gentleman because time is short, but I do not accept his statement.Mr. McNEILL
254: I wish to make it quite clear that when I
254Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: As the right hon. Gentleman challenges me, I am obliged to reply. What happened was different from what he has said, as the correspondence shows. What happened was that the Government presented to the Premier of Northern Ireland a set of proposals, the first of which was that Ireland should acknowledge allegiance, although the Prime Minister said that that was preliminary and would not be in the terms. Another proposal was that there should be an All-Ireland Parliament, and the request to go into conference was not to discuss this point, but the points of detail arising out of it.Mr. McNEILL
: I do not accept that as a correct statement of the documents. They speak for themselves; therefore I will not argue the matter now. The gravamen of the charge was that coercion of Ulster was intended and was tried, because there was an endeavour to force Ulster into an All-Ireland Parliament. My answer is that that is not so in fact. What was in fact true was that Ulster was invited to come into conference to discuss whether, and upon what terms, she could join an All-Ireland Parliament. The next point that my hon. Friend made was that the 1920 Act set up two equal Parliaments. He admitted that there was nothing in this Agreement which took anything away from the Ulster Parliament; but he complained that a great deal was put into the scale of the Southern and Western Parliament which was not given to Ulster, and that that constituted a form of coercion of Ulster.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: I did not say that.Mr. McNEILL
255: Well, not coercion, but a breach of faith with Ulster. How does that constitute a breach of faith? Does Ulster say that she is entitled to stop the South and the West from having such a Parliament as this House chooses to give her? She has never said so yet. She has always said: "Leave us alone." She has always said:
255Sir L. WORTHINGTON - EVANS
: No, look at your own agreement in the Act of 1920.Mr. DONALD
: That is a different point. As I understood it, the point was that the South and West are getting more favourable, financial terms than the North. They are, but the North has the option either to remain with us or to go of her own free will if she chooses.Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: It is a form of coercion.Mr. COOTE
256: It cannot be coercion to give an option. An option in the nature of things is to be perfectly free. Coercion is not to be free; it is the reverse. An option means a choice. It means that you can choose to go to the North or to the South; it does not mean that you are compelled to go either to the South or to the North. No, there is no coercion there. When I try to examine the various grounds upon which that Amendment is moved, I confess that it seems to me that those who have moved it are really under a misapprehension as to what the Agreement contains. Let me now deal with the last point in the Amendment. It condemns the Agreement because it says that it fails to safeguard the rights of the loyalist population of
256Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: They would have been shot if they did not.Sir W. ALLEN
: Does the hon. Member think so badly of his co-Members as to think that fear has dictated their speeches? I do not think that he will find that the hon. Member for Dublin University has been forced to speak in this Debate because of fear. That is not so. When the hon. Member has been longer in this House he will find that there are other brave men in this House besides himself. I have dealt with each one of the points of this Amendment, and I venture to say that if this Agreement is considered in a reasonable spirit—Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: Will my right hon. Friend answer the questions which I put in a very definite form yesterday, about Article 10, by which the positions of the judges and the officials and public servants and ex-Royal Irish Constabulary men are affected?Sir J. BUTCHER
258257: I hope my hon. and learned Friend will got his answer. I am not prepared at this moment to go into these matters. I am
258257Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS
: Have all the agitators now been arrested, and are they to be tried or interned?Colonel Sir C. YATE
131 (by Private Notice)asked the Secretary of State for India whether Motilal Nehru, Lajput Rai, C. R. Das, and some hundred other Indian political leaders have been
131Colonel WEDGWOOD
: When the matter of compensation to these people who have had their property destroyed by the Republican Army is being considered, what is going to be done for the people who have had their property destroyed by the forces of the Crown under the reprisals policy? Is that going to be taken into consideration at the same time?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
 (by Private Notice)asked the Prime Minister if there was an undertaking given at the recent Conference that the flag of the Irish Free State will not be the present Sinn Fein flag, but the Union Jack with such minor alterations as local patriotism requires, as in the case of all the other self-governing Dominions within the British Empire?Mr. ESMOND HARMSWORTH
: Are we to understand that the Union Jack, as our national flag, was not considered important enough for discussion?Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Will the Bill which is to be introduced set out the details of this Agreement, or is it to be a short Bill merely ratifying the Treaty, as is the case with a treaty with a foreign power?Major O'NEILL
 (by Private Notice)asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether he is aware that motor drivers and mechanics of the Royal Irish Constabulary are now being dismissed without receiving their one month's notice of dismissal which was promised to them in Orders, and that they are not given any passage money or warrants to their homes in England; whether he is also aware that, owing to the feeling against the Royal Irish Constabulary amongst certain trade unions, it is very often difficult for these men to find re-employment as mechanics, and whether he can see his way to giving the House an assurance that they will receive a gratuity on disbandment and passage money to their homes?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that many of these men are being dismissed at this moment—I have had telegrams to-day—being dismissed without any notice at all, and are being told to find their way back to their homes in England. Surely that is a very great hardship in view of the great service done in the War?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER - SHEE
: Can the right hon. Gentleman give the House any information as to the situation in Calcutta?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
133 (by Private Notice)asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether any agree-
133Lieut.-Colonel POWNALL
: I wish to ask the Leader of the House whether it is proposed to prorogue Parliament without waiting for the result of the discussion now proceeding in Dublin?Mr. A. HENDERSON
: I do not think that there is anything inconsistent in the answer I gave then and the answer I give now. Nothing that the Government can do prevents Parliament altering any provisions, however minute, but Parliament will have to act with the same sense of responsibility as that with which the Government acts, with the knowledge that if there be an alteration, it does re-open the whole pact for further negotiations.The PRIME MINISTER
: The question was not raised at the Conference.The PRIME MINISTER
127: Parliament has, of course, power to effect any change it desires in the terms of the instrument, but it is clear that any alterations made in the Agreement on either side would, in the
127The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
: It is an Agreement in the nature of a Treaty, exactly in the same way as the "Articles of Agreement" entered into by the Act of Union was called a Treaty by both parties in this House.The PRIME MINISTER
: They will be fettered in the same sense exactly as the representatives of the Irish people on the other side; that is, whoever on either side alters the pact must do it with the full knowledge that it means re-opening the negotiations, and what is true of this side is equally true of the other side. If alterations are to be made here, my hon. Friend may depend upon it that alterations will be urged upon the other side; and, if they are made, they must be made on both sides with a full knowledge of what the results will be.The PRIME MINISTER
: There are no conditions affecting the rights and privileges of this House, but I repeat again that the House, when it comes to consider Amendments to be moved, must do so with a full sense and full recognition of what the effect of the Amendments will be.The PRIME MINISTER
: I should not like to give an answer, as obviously the matter will have to be considered very carefully with the Parliamentary draftsmen together with the legal advisers, and there has not been time to go into that question.The PRIME MINISTER
: A Conference has recently been held with representatives of the French and Belgian Governments, and an agreement was reached that the summer time period should commence on the night of the last Saturday in March, or the last Saturday but one in March when the last Saturday is the day preceding Easter Day, and end on the night of the first Saturday in October. The Government have carefully considered this proposal, and in view of the serious inconvenience at present caused by the difference between the three countries in the dates of commencing and ending summer time, they have approved the proposal, which corresponds very nearly to the dates which have been fixed in this country, and have informed the French Government that they are prepared to submit to Parliament legislation to give effect to it. It is the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill for this purpose early next Session. I should add that the summer time period in France at present commences on 15th March and ends on 25th October, so that the French Government have made very large concessions in their desire to meet us.The SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Mr. Shortt)
: I cannot answer that.Mr. SHORTT
: I am expecting to receive at any moment a telegram from the Government of India about the prison treatment of political prisoners. I will then communicate with my hon. and gallant Friend.The SECRETARY of STATE for INDIA (Mr. Montagu)
: The White Paper issued yesterday contains all the information received up to 6th December. I have received since that date nine other telegrams which are for the most part detailed military reports of operations. They show continued progress in capturing rebels and reducing the area affected. I will circulate in the OFFICIAL REPORT the summary for the week ending 12th December, with other details.Mr. MONTAGU
: I have brought down no further information beyond that which has appeared in the Press.Mr. MONTAGU
The following is the Summary referred to:: I think so. It is a public inquiry; I think the report will be public.The following is the Summary referred to:Mr. MONTAGU
: I cannot give an answer as to every agitation in India. I think in every case in Calcutta agitators who have been arrested for breaches of the law are being, or have been tried in the Courts.Mr. MONTAGU
: Before the right hon. Gentleman replies, will he allow me to ask another question? I understand that a large number of questions are put down for oral answers. To-morrow is the only day available for the purpose. Not-withstanding, therefore, that to-morrow is Friday, I trust the right hon. Gentleman will be able to give an assurance that Ministers will find it convenient to be present, and to answer questions.Mr. G. THORNE
: Yes, Sir.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Let me say that every pledge made by the Government with regard to these gallant men will be carried out.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I think my answer covers that as well.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I cannot add anything to the answer I have just given.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: If the facts are as stated, it is an intolerable hardship, and I shall be glad if the hon. and gallant Gentleman will bring any case of the kind to my notice.Sir H. GREENWOOD
130: No, Sir. It is not a fact that any temporary members of the Royal Irish Constabulary are being discharged otherwise than in accordance with their contract. The men who are
130Sir H. GREENWOOD
: The whole question of outstanding awards against local authorities under the Malicious Injuries Acts will form a proper subject for discussion after the Articles now before Parliament have received ratification.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: Arising out of the original reply of the right hon. Gentleman, is not the effect then, that even if a majority of this House desire to improve that Measure, practically their hands are fettered—the hands of the House of Commons are being tied?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: In view of the fact that those who desire to remain under this Parliament are left in Ireland under this Agreement, are the Government going to see that the cost of transport and maintenance and compensation is granted if they desire to leave their country, and to remain under the Imperial Parliament?Lieut.-Colonel CROFT
: Does the right hon. Gentleman not think that these questions have been deliberately put with the object of preventing the ratification of the Treaty?Mr. SEXTON
: Will these conditions apply to the Northern Parliament?Mr. SEXTON
: That would take much longer time than we can spare at present.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member must not impute motives to his fellow-Members.Mr. SPEAKER
: I have another question on that point.Mr. SPEAKER
: That is the subject of a separate question.Mr. SPEAKER
: Hon. Members are now arguing the matter. The effect of Amendment is a matter of argument when the time comes.Mr. SPEAKER
: May I ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he does not think, apart from all other reasons, it would be more consistent with the dignity of this House that we ought not to come to a decision on this question until the decision in Dublin is announced?Mr. RONALD McNEILL
: Will the Bill that is going to be brought in next Session to deal with this Treaty be able to be amended in order that this question may be dealt with?Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS
: Before the right hon. Gentleman answers that question, will he give us any guarantee that bricklayers in Ireland will be called upon to lay so many bricks a day?Mr. W. THORNE
: Will the right hon. Gentleman give the House the definition of an agitator?Mr. W. THORNE
: Shot!Mr. W. THORNE
: Do I understand that the effect of an Amendment carried in this House—carried at the wish of the great majority of independent Members of this House—will be to destroy the Agreement altogether, and is that not fettering the action of the House?Sir J. BUTCHER
: Is there any constitutional precedent for this result, namely, that when a Bill is brought before this House for fundamentally altering the constitution of Great Britain and Ireland, the hands of the House of Commons should be absolutely tied, and the House prevented from making any Amendment, except under the conditions which the right hon. Gentleman now states?Sir J. BUTCHER
roseSir W. DAVISON
"Most distinctly. It will be quite impossible to have a settlement except with the full consent of Parliament. The whole of the terms will be submitted to Parliament on the assumption that there is a settlement, and every provision will have to be ratified by Parliament even to the smallest detail."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 27th October, 1921; col. 1025, Vol. 147.]"Will the right hon. Gentleman answer my question as to whether the terms of settlement are to be open to revision and alteration by Parliament?": Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that that gives quite a different complexion to the statement he made in the House on the 27th October? The right hon. Gentleman was asked then by the hon. and learned Member for York (Sir J. Butcher):
"Most distinctly. It will be quite impossible to have a settlement except with the full consent of Parliament. The whole of the terms will be submitted to Parliament on the assumption that there is a settlement, and every provision will have to be ratified by Parliament even to the smallest detail."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 27th October, 1921; col. 1025, Vol. 147.]"Will the right hon. Gentleman answer my question as to whether the terms of settlement are to be open to revision and alteration by Parliament?"Sir W. DAVISON
: That is not the point I was going to put. I was going to ask the Prime Minister whether he would not, at any rate, see that the title was made correct. At present it reads, "Treaty between Great Britain and Ireland." It is not a Treaty between Great Britain and Ireland.Sir W. DAVISON
 (by Private Notice)asked the Prime Minister whether the Bill which will embody in precise detail what are officially described as the "Articles of Agreement for a Treaty between Great Britain and Ireland" will be open for amendment by Parliament, or whether the provisions of such Bill will have to be accepted by Parliament without alteration or rejection, as in the case of a treaty with a foreign State?Sir W. DAVISON
: May I ask whether it is an Agreement or a Treaty?Captain Viscount CURZON
: Will the right hon. Gentleman take the opportunity before this Debate is over, in view of the pledges given by His Majesty's Government both to the permanent and temporary members of the Royal Irish Constabulary, of making a statement as to how he proposes to safeguard their interests in the present and future?Earl WINTERTON
: But will the right hon. Gentleman take the opportunity—either himself or some other Minister in this Debate—of stating how they propose to carry these things out in detail?Earl WINTERTON
: The amount received up to the present by the British Empire from Germany under the Reparation and Financial Clauses of the Treaty of Versailles is not yet sufficient to cover the cost of the British Army of Occupation on the Rhine.Mr. YOUNG
: It includes the amount under the Reparation and Financial Clauses. I am afraid that if I were required to give a further analysis of that amount I should have to ask for notice.Mr. YOUNG
: I understand that a Note has been received from the German Government by the Reparation Commission asking for a partial postponement of its January and February instalments. The position created by the Note will be discussed with the Allies, but in view of the urgency of the question, I cannot undertake to postpone a decision until the House meets again.Mr. YOUNG
: I cannot add anything at all to the answer I have given, or warrant any implication from it.Mr. YOUNG
: I think it is unnecessary and inexpedient to answer hypothetical questions.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN (Leader of the House)
264: Although His Majesty's Government have no definite information on the subject, it is believed that the administration of the Turkish Nationalists has replaced French military authority in Cilicia; in any case, the French troops were, under the terms of the Agreement, to have been withdrawn by 20th December. By agreement with the Angora Government, M. Franklin Bouillon was himself to supervise the conditions of the transfer of authority, and he was to be assisted by three French representatives residing at Adana, Mersina and Aintab. His Majesty's Government are not aware of any threats emanating from the Turkish Nationalist authorities or forces against the non-Turkish inhabitants; the French Government have, indeed, informed His Majesty's Government of the adoption by the Angora Government of certain decisions favourable to the minorities and indicating, according to the French view, a disposition on the part of the Nationalist authorities loyally to fulfil the
264Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I am not sure that I am aware that my hon. Friend has such a letter, but, even so, I do not think that it upsets the truth of my answer.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I am not at all sure that the Armenians have been well advised to fly from Cilicia.Mr. HARMSWORTH
265: I cannot say. I have no definite information as to how
265Mr. HARMSWORTH
: The right hon. Gentleman appears to understand more than I do where the responsibility lies.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I need hardly say that the Government have done everything within their power in the circumstances.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: There is no change in the military situation in Anatolia. Active hostilities appear to be virtually in suspense. A meeting will take place early in the New Year between the Allied Foreign Ministers to discuss methods and terms of a general settlement. No conversations are taking place, or have taken place, between representatives of His Majesty's Government and the Angora Government.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I have already stated that a meeting will take place in Paris in the first week of the New Year to discuss these things.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: The policy of this country in respect of the protection of the Christian populations of Asia Minor has not changed and has been made the subject of unremitting representations to the Governments principally concerned. As to the Treaty of Sevres, further discussions are about to take place between the Allies, and it would not be desirable to make a statement at this stage.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Parliament was summoned in this extraordinary Session solely to deal with the Article of Agreement signed by the Irish representatives and by His Majesty's Government, and I should rather deprecate the introduction of other subjects which would lead to a prolongation of the Session of quite uncertain but of considerable length.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I have been anxiously watching the position in this county, but it does not appear that I can usefully intervene. The matter is one which should be dealt with by the County Conciliation Committee. The Corn Production Act (Repeal) Act provides that if an agreement as to wages arrived at by the Conciliation Committee is confirmed, the terms of the agreement become an implied condition of any contract of service and can be enforced accordingly. The Norfolk Conciliation Committee has not, however, agreed up to the present to the confirmation of its agreement.The MINISTER of AGRICULTURE (Sir A. Boscawen)
: I have ascertained that there are no students in receipt of Government aid who are in training on the farms in question.Sir A. BOSCAWEN
18. 274 asked the President of the Board of Trade whether his attention has been called to the decision of the referee appointed by the Lord Chancellor under the Safeguarding of Industries Act that incandescent gas mantles, in so far as certain materials
274Sir W. BARTON
: Does not the right hon. Gentleman think that in fact these articles have "lost their identity" when they become part of those gas mantles, and will he define the meaning of "loss of identity" for the purposes of this Act?Sir W. BARTON
278: No, Sir, I am not in possession of information to this effect. If, however, the hon. Member will give me particulars of any actual cases which he has in mind, I will cause inquiry to be made into the facts. I may, however, remind him that, in a case such as he
278Mr. YOUNG
: How many of these officers will be retained permanently?Captain TERRELL
: The provisional Estimate for the Office of Works for 1922–23 has been referred to the Committee on National Expenditure in the same way as other Departmental Estimates.Mr. YOUNG
: I cannot say.Mr. YOUNG
: Can the hon. and gallant Gentleman say if the Government are working in full harmony with the organisation under the League of Nations for the reduction or suppression of this trade?Mr. BARNES
: Will the hon. and gallant Gentleman make inquiries on the matter?Mr. BARNES
26. 280pari passu asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether he has received communications urging that the pledge given by the Government that a Bill to complete land purchase in Ireland would be introduced and proceeded with 280pari passuColonel NEWMAN
: May I ask whether it is the policy of the Government that the British taxpayer should be further taxed to provide the benefits which they cheerfully provided for united Ireland for those who advocate separation?Rear-Admiral Sir R. HALL
: Does it mean that the pledge given by the Government in regard to the 1920 Act is now dead?Colonel NEWMAN
39.  asked the Prime Minister whether it is the intention of the Government to release all Irish political prisoners?Lieut. - Colonel SPENDER CLAY
: The question of an amnesty will be considered if the Agreement is approved on both sides.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: No, Sir. I will not go beyond the statement which I have made.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
282: As far as I know, no condition as to the flag was imposed
282Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Is it a fact that the Navy and Army Canteen Board have lost over £2,000,000 in the course of two years trading, and, if so, will the Government consider the question of leaving the matter to private enterprise?Captain TERRELL
: I cannot say what would be the conditions of an arrangement which has not yet been a subject of discussion.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: No, Sir.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
289: The Government are fully alive to the serious nature of the famine in Russia. The answer to the second part of the question is in the
289Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: The sum which has been voted by the House was voted to send stores, mainly medical stores, which were to he at the disposal of the Red Cross for use in Russia. I am not aware of any proposal as suggested that with other Powers we should collectively vote money from national funds, but it is quite obvious that in dealing with any matters of this kind we must have regard at the present moment to the condition of our own people.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Both questions obviously ought to be the subject of notice. As regards the first I am unable to say what is the possible extent of the calamity which from various causes has befallen the Russians. As regards the second question, I will ask to be excused from answering as to what passed at the League of Nations without an opportunity of refreshing my memory.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: The answer to both questions is in the negative. Any such action would be a direct breach of public faith.Mr. YOUNG
: I am aware that the Greek Government has given indications of its desire to raise a loan in this country. I am not clear as to the amount so raised which it is proposed should be spent in this country, and have asked for information on this head. As to the last part of the question, it is not the practice of His Majesty's Government to indicate favour or disfavour to loans on the London market.Mr. YOUNG
: If I rightly understand my hon. Friend's question, I do not think that the suggestion contained therein is in present circumstances feasible.Mr. YOUNG
: The usual hour.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
311"(1) Whether the proposal satisfied the majority of the Irish people; (2) having regard to the long religious difficulty there must be some form of protection for the minority; and (3) we shall examine the proposal from the standpoint of the security of our own Country."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 31st October, 1921; col. 1412, Vol. 147.]"But regrets that in view of the present deplorable condition of affairs in Ireland there is no expressed intention on the part of the Government to make a real effort towards reconciliation and settlement by meeting in conference the elected representatives of the Irish people and exploring with an open mind every possible avenue to peace."310309308307306: In view of the general desire of the House that the division should be taken as early in the afternoon as possible, I do not propose to engage the attention of the House for more than a few minutes. We, who are
311"(1) Whether the proposal satisfied the majority of the Irish people; (2) having regard to the long religious difficulty there must be some form of protection for the minority; and (3) we shall examine the proposal from the standpoint of the security of our own Country."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 31st October, 1921; col. 1412, Vol. 147.]"But regrets that in view of the present deplorable condition of affairs in Ireland there is no expressed intention on the part of the Government to make a real effort towards reconciliation and settlement by meeting in conference the elected representatives of the Irish people and exploring with an open mind every possible avenue to peace."310309308307306Mr. A. HENDERSON
314313"By Tuesday next either the negotiations will have broken down or the Prime Minister will send me"—(Sir James Craig)—"new proposals for the consideration of the Cabinet. In the meantime the rights of Ulster will be in no way sacrificed or compromised."312: I should perhaps thank the right hon. Gentleman who has just concluded his speech for some small grain of comfort after many years—I was going to say of hostility, but shall I say rather of bitter criticism. At this stage I do not intend to go over the ground which has already been so fully covered in the course of the Debate. We have had some very remarkable and arresting speeches. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Widnes (Mr. Henderson) referred to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Central Glasgow (Mr. Bonar Law) as one of the finest contributions to debate in this House he had ever heard. With that I am sure every Member of this House most fully and most cordially agrees. There was a speech by the Colonial Secretary in regard to which I should like to say a word. There have been many occasions in the past when the Colonial Secretary has found himself in hostility to the views of the people of Ulster, but in this Debate he is the one Minister among all the others who have spoken from that bench who has had a word of friendliness or of thanks to say to Ulster in regard to what she has done in recent years to further a settlement. He fully acknow-
314313"By Tuesday next either the negotiations will have broken down or the Prime Minister will send me"—(Sir James Craig)—"new proposals for the consideration of the Cabinet. In the meantime the rights of Ulster will be in no way sacrificed or compromised."312Mr. O'NEILL
315: I understand my right hon. Friend's argument is that I told the Sinn Feiners that, inasmuch as they had a majority in Tyrone and Fermanagh, they would get the whole of those counties. I certainly never said anything of the kind. On the contrary, all I have ever suggested is what I have suggested
315The PRIME MINISTER (Mr. Lloyd George)
: I am much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman, but I think that all I said was that I wondered whether the right hon. Gentleman had told the Sinn Feiners that all that was intended was a mere rectification of boundaries, the result of which might be, as he now says, to include the population of these counties.Mr. O'NEILL
: As a matter of fact, I did say to the Sinn Fein representatives that the representatives of Ulster who were at the Buckingham Palace Conference, when there was a discussion of this kind, were under the impression that it would have the effect of increasing the population of Ulster. That was their view of the effect of a Boundaries Commission, and if that be the case, it means that the population desired will be within that area.The PRIME MINISTER
318"The victory which had been achieved by the Irish popular party in 1782 was a great one, but many elements of disquietude
318"There will no longer exist any constitutional question between the two nations that can disturb their mutual tranquility."317316: Unless there is a desire on the part of Sinn Feiners to get the boundary of Northern Ireland reduced, I still think that a few words in the Agreement to the effect that the population was not to be diminished by this Commission would practically have put the matter right. There is one other point which has led the Ulster people to believe there is something behind this, and that was a speech made not long ago by the Lord Chancellor, in which he said that because of some emergency legislation which we passed through the Ulster House of Commons the other day, the Northern Parliament were coercing certain people in certain parts of Tyrone and Fermanagh. That is entirely beyond the truth. The enormous majority of the people in those counties would welcome, and do welcome, the legislation which the
318"The victory which had been achieved by the Irish popular party in 1782 was a great one, but many elements of disquietude
318"There will no longer exist any constitutional question between the two nations that can disturb their mutual tranquility."317316Mr. O'NEILL
327"but this shall not prevent the construction or maintenance of the Government of the Irish Free State of such vessels as are necessary for the protection of the Revenue or the Fisheries."326325324"In negotiations, there are two courses which you can adopt. Men who are accustomed to negotiations know that you can always, if you like, leave something in hand to use later on to purchase settlement. That is one course, a course to which my right hon. Friends opposite are very accustomed. But there is another point, and that is to put all your cards on the table. After considering carefully which of these courses we should take, without hesitation we adopted the latter, because of the importance of ranging on the side of our proposals all sane opinion not merely in this country and in Ireland, but throughout the world. That is what decided us in putting the whole of our terms into the letters without keeping, anything back. I think the sequel proves
324323"The next step was the speech which Ministers put into the mouth of the King—it is the correct and constitutional form—at the opening of the Belfast Parliament; a
323322"So far as I am concerned, and I am speaking on behalf of the Government, we shall certainly resist out and out any demand for an army or navy being set up in Ireland."321320"You must not choose it when the parties are full of fight, when they are confident they are going to win, when they are confident not merely in the justice of their case, but in the invincibility of their counsel. Who can stand against it? That is not the time to settle. You have got to wait until difficulties have cropped up which they had never foreseen, when doubt begins to enter their minds as to the completeness of their victory, when the costs are mounting up and the only smile is on the face of the solicitor, when they are tired out by plead-
320319"On Tory principle the case of the Government of Ireland presents much that
319: I agree with the right hon. Gentleman who opened the Debate to-day and who spoke on behalf of the Labour party as to the vast importance of the change indicated by this Treaty. But I disagree entirely with him, I am afraid, both as to his conclusions with regard to the provisions of the Treaty itself and even still more as to the methods by which it is to be carried out. I agree again that he is fully entitled in his vehement joy from his own point of view to say, "you are now adopting a policy which those with whom I work recommended to you long since." I hope that as a fair-minded man ho will equally agree with me that this Treaty is a complete reversal of the policy of the Unionist party. I hate to read extracts to the House, but there was a speech which has been quoted before in this Debate—a remarkable speech by the late Lord Salisbury when he was pointing out the great inadvisability of this disestablishment of the Irish Church following directly after the explosion at Clerkenwell Prison. He was also pointing out the unfortunate incident in connection with the passing of the first Irish Land Act at a time when there had been a more than ordinary number of murders of Irish landlords, and he went on to say:
327"but this shall not prevent the construction or maintenance of the Government of the Irish Free State of such vessels as are necessary for the protection of the Revenue or the Fisheries."326325324"In negotiations, there are two courses which you can adopt. Men who are accustomed to negotiations know that you can always, if you like, leave something in hand to use later on to purchase settlement. That is one course, a course to which my right hon. Friends opposite are very accustomed. But there is another point, and that is to put all your cards on the table. After considering carefully which of these courses we should take, without hesitation we adopted the latter, because of the importance of ranging on the side of our proposals all sane opinion not merely in this country and in Ireland, but throughout the world. That is what decided us in putting the whole of our terms into the letters without keeping, anything back. I think the sequel proves
324323"The next step was the speech which Ministers put into the mouth of the King—it is the correct and constitutional form—at the opening of the Belfast Parliament; a
323322"So far as I am concerned, and I am speaking on behalf of the Government, we shall certainly resist out and out any demand for an army or navy being set up in Ireland."321320"You must not choose it when the parties are full of fight, when they are confident they are going to win, when they are confident not merely in the justice of their case, but in the invincibility of their counsel. Who can stand against it? That is not the time to settle. You have got to wait until difficulties have cropped up which they had never foreseen, when doubt begins to enter their minds as to the completeness of their victory, when the costs are mounting up and the only smile is on the face of the solicitor, when they are tired out by plead-
320319"On Tory principle the case of the Government of Ireland presents much that
319Mr. RAWLINSON
: My hon. and learned Friend spoke of pre-paid telegrams. The words may have slipped out of his mouth, or he may have a meaning in his mind. If he has, I think he ought to say what it is.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN (Leader of the House)
: I say at once that the word slipped out, but there was, we know, a telegram which was sent from Sandringham, and the Secretary of State for the Colonies admitted that the responsibility for that telegram rests with His Majesty's Ministers. I am not complaining in the least, and I only mean that suggestions are made in that way.Mr. RAWLINSON
: Of course, His Majesty's Ministers are responsible for every act and every word of His Majesty, but if my hon. and learned Friend suggests that that telegram from Sandringham was suggested by His Majesty's Ministers, then he is mistaken—profoundly mistaken. He spoke of pre-paid telegrams from the Dominions. What we did was to send to the Dominions a perfectly true and colourless summary of the arrangements come to, and the suggestion that we solicited or inspired telegrams from the Dominions is wholly without foundation.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Can the right hon. Gentleman seriously make that a debating point for a moment?Mr. RAWLINSON
: I do not make it as a debating point; I make it as a statement of fact on a matter of great public interest.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
329: I am very glad indeed to hear it. Let us look at what the right hon. Gentleman says. This Government sends a telegram stating that peace with Ireland has been agreed to. If that be so, who would not congratulate them? If they had telegraphed to me that peace had been declared with Ireland, I, being at the other end of the globe, and having no means of knowing otherwise, of course, would have at once telegraphed my hearty congratulations. That is what I mean. I agree that possibly I ought not to have used the word "pre-paid," and I withdraw it, and I withdraw unreservedly anything which may offend my right hon. Friend. The point is this. Have the Sinn Feiners done anything since this Treaty has been in negotiation to show that they are grateful to us? Has there not been speech after speech by Mr. De Valera and others saying, "We have won this at the point of the sword"? It is for these reasons that I venture to take the line which I am taking to-day. Reference has been made to the settlement with the Dutch in South Africa. with whom I was intimately acquainted at one time. That, however, was not the first settlement with them. The first settlement with the Transvaal Dutch was after Majuba Hill, and, from what I have seen in South Africa between Majuba Hill and the time of the last Boer War. I think the surrender after Majuba Hill was as great a mistake as the making of the
329Mr. RAWLINSON
332331330: I am sure the point is appreciated as to the responsibility which the party leaders have undertaken in attempting to settle this century-long struggle between Ireland and England. One has appreciated the situation, and the courage which Ministers have displayed, more after the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Rawlinson) than one has appreciated it during the whole of this Debate hitherto. Fortunately. I am not in the same position as my hon. and learned Friend. I am not a Unionist. I am not a member, nor have I ever been a member, of the Unionist party, and I can quite understand, when one remembers the history of that party during the last 20 or 30 years, and the enormous part it has played in holding together the great body of Conservative opinion in this country, what a terrific wrench it must be, as well in personal friendships as in political associations, to face the changed situation which is before us at this moment. That, however, only shows greater courage on the part of the negotiators who have brought about this settlement.332331330Lieut.-Colonel J. WARD
: Good old English democrat!Lieut. - Colonel WATTS - MORGAN
: I do not take my democracy from Wales.Lieut.-Colonel WARD
: "We Englishmen!"Lieut. - Colonel WATTS - MORGAN
333: At last it is very likely that Englishmen will be allowed to say that they are Englishmen. In view of the criticism which has occasionally been passed and the declarations which have been made, that it was absolutely necessary before this Government went forward further into great legislative proposals, that it should seek the suffrages of the country, this has put the final seal upon that demand in my estimation from whatever quarter of the House
333Lieut.-Colonel WARD
"Under no circumstances, and at no time, will Ulster be automatically included in an Irish Parliament."334: We are drawing near to the end of a memorable Debate, a Debate marked at some stages by considerable heat, marked at other stages, notably by two speakers, by at least good feeling and consideration. I do not wish to utter a word which would grate upon the susceptibilities of the most tender feelings. I will say no word to which even the most sensitive might reasonably object. While I must, as a matter of duty to those who have sent me here, and to the convictions which I cherish, speak with some plainness, I shall do it with no intention of giving irritation to anyone. I want to say to the Leader of the House, because he is my leader, that I complain of the atmosphere in which these negotiations were conducted. I protest against the deliberate campaign which was meant to poison public opinion. While at his suggestion, as well as that of the Prime Minister, we accepted the silence they had imposed upon us, the Press were brought down in battalions to Downing Street, and the very expressions in certain documents that passed between the Ulster Cabinet and the British Cabinet were dished up in the following morning's papers, coloured to suit the purposes of the Government and wholly distorted to misrepresent our position. We complained to the right hon. Gentleman and he admitted the justice of our complaint. I believe he, even promised to do what he could to put an end to this scandalous campaign, but he could not do it, and it went on to the end. Then we reached the critical stage in which the agreed statement was issued by the British Prime Minister to the Northern Prime Minister, and I call attention to the terms of it. It was that unless agreement was reached new proposals would be sent to the Northern Government, and meantime nothing would be done to compromise or sacrifice Ulster's right. Was it new proposals that we got? We got no new proposals. We got a Treaty thrown at us, as it has been thrown at this House, told we must either ratify it or go to the country. That is the spirit that has
"Under no circumstances, and at no time, will Ulster be automatically included in an Irish Parliament."334Mr. MOLES
: Why?Lieut.-Commander ASTBURY
: I hope the hon. Member will not interrupt me.Mr. MOLES
: I only asked a question.Lieut.-Commander ASTBURY
: Can anybody dispute that we are automatically included? We are automatically included, and if we are automatically included what is the use of that kind of interruption from the hon. Member? We are automatically included, in spite of that pledge of the Prime Minister, and if we do not proceed to take the steps that we are empowered to take, and vote ourselves out, we should remain in in perpetuity. We will not remain in one hour. Immediately the clock strikes that confers upon us the right to vote ourselves out, we shall vote ourselves out.Mr. MOLES
: Oh! You are Unionists.Mr. J. JONES
335: I hope I may be allowed to proceed without interruption from the hon. Member. If he wants to go on in that sort of fashion he ought to go into the Lobby and bray there. Though I have much to say that would be pertinent to this discussion, I wish to confine my observations to two salient features that vitally concern us in the North of Ireland. First, there is the Oath of Allegiance to be taken by the Members of the Parliament to which we are invited to go. The second is in respect of the boundaries of the Parliament which has been given to Ulster. I could not help a feeling of amazement at the pitiable and contemptible efforts that were made to defend the Oath of Allegiance last night by the Colonial Secretary though I gladly admit the conciliatory tone of the speech. If we had found more frequently the same attitude of mind evinced towards us it, would have
335Mr. MOLES
: As by law established.Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: I have too much love for my old friend to turn aside to say anything against him.Mr. MOLES
: I will not give way.Mr. MOLES
: You are not in Ulster now you cannot dominate everybody here.Mr. J. JONES
: On more than one occasion the hon. Member for Silvertown (Mr. J. Jones) has insulted me. He has insulted this House. He has insulted the dignity of your Chair, Mr. Speaker, and I protest against these constant interruptions. I am addressing no observation to him, and I beg that I may be permitted to address the House without his interference.Mr. MOLES
: On a point of Order. Has an hon. Member of this House the right to refer to another hon. Member of this House as "Mike Collins"?Mr. JONES
: I did not hear that observation.Mr. SPEAKER
: You were not here, Mr. Speaker, when he made it.Mr. JONES
: An hon. Member must use respectful terms of another hon. Member of this House.Mr. SPEAKER
: I hope you are not addressing that observation to me, Mr. Speaker, I have used no disrespectful language about anybody.Mr. MOLES
: I did not hear the remark to which the hon. Member for Silvertown refers. In what I have said I was making a remark generally for the advice of hon. Members.Mr. SPEAKER
: You were not in the Chair, Mr. Speaker, when the hon. Member made the observation.Mr. JONES
: I was not in the Chair, but I have dealt with the matter.Mr. SPEAKER
337: I only wish to continue my discourse. Hon. Members who were here will agree that I did not break any rule of debate, and I hope that I may neither be insulted nor interrupted improperly. I was saying that the Oath of Allegiance could be one of two kinds: the natural Oath taken by a born subject of the State, or it can be the express Oath taken by a person who is a born subject of another State, but who, on coming here, renounces his allegiance to the old State and takes the Oath of Allegiance to the new. The claim of Sinn Fein is that it is no part of this nation, that it owes no allegiance to it, that it is a separate and distinct State, and that the only Oath which its people should recognise is the Oath of Allegiance to the Irish Republic. It is clear, therefore, that the natural Oath does not bind them. Then there is the express Oath, which is exactly in common form with the Oath we take at the Table of this House when we enter it. That Oath, Sinn Feiners refuse to take. If the Government really mean this as an Oath of Allegiance, if they expect it to be binding upon the consciences of those who take it, in the way that the Oath which we take here is binding upon us, why do not they give the Sinn Feiners the Oath in the same form? Why do they go in for this imbecile caricature of an Oath of Allegiance? If they mean allegiance to the King, why do not they put in the word "allegiance" before the word "King"? They cut it out deliberately, in deference to the Sinn Fein delegates with whom they have been conferring, and they cut it out because the Sinn Fein delegates refuse to be bound by that Oath of Allegiance.337Mr. MOLES
: Listen to Demosthenes!Mr. J. JONES
343342341340339338: The Prime Minister stated that in no circumstances would there be an automatic inclusion of Ulster. My right hon. Friend subscribed to that statement. He was in the Government at that period and it bound him as much
343342341340339338Mr. MOLES
: The speech to which we have just listened shows the position which I think Ulster has a right to take up. I am sorry the hon. and gallant Member for Stoke (Lieut.-Colonel J. Ward) is no longer present in the House, because he drew attention to a constitutional point which has not been alluded to hitherto, and which I think should receive some attention from those Members who are going to support the Address on which we shall soon vote. The hon. and gallant Member for Stoke pointed out that if this Agreement were carried out, a great change in the Constitution would be involved and would necessitate an appeal to the country. I think I am right in saying that some of the greatest constitutional authorities in this country at the present moment agree with that view. If that is the right view, and if we are to have a General Election, what will be the position of those gentlemen who have voted for this Agreement? Voting for this Agreement commits them to the principle of the Agreement. When a Bill is brought in, they cannot object to the Second Reading of the Bill if they have voted for this Agreement, and in the same way, if there is a General Election they cannot oppose the principle of this Agreement at the General Election because they have voted for it in this House. Therefore, how can the democracy of this country express an opinion through its representative when that representative, without consulting them, has already committed himself to a certain course of action?Sir F. BANBURY
: They can turn him down if they do not agree with him.Major-General Sir N. MOORE
: They can, and I venture to say that very likely they will. We were extremely glad to welcome back in restored health the right hon. Gentleman the late Leader of the House, and he made an extremely interesting speech. Among other things, he said that once this question of Home Rule had been taken up by one of the great parties of the State it was bound to succeed, but was it, unless that great party who took it up could prove that they were right? May I point out to my right hon. Friend the present Leader of the House the position in which we all are. I have been for nearly 30 years—it will be 30 years next July—a Member of this House, and I do not see, except my right hon. Friend, any hon. Member who was here with me in the old days.Sir F. BANBURY
: A good job.Mr. J. JONES
: Well, we had principles in those days. I want to point out to my right hon. Friend, and I am sure he will not deny it, that never had the Conservative party a more loyal follower than myself. There never was a member of the Conservative party who was less anxious or more unwilling to go against his party than I was. The hon. Members in those days sitting opposite used to describe me sometimes—I do not think they really meant it, but they said it—as a "party hack."Sir F. BANBURY
: You were a four-wheeler.Mr. J. JONES
345: I was described as a "party hack," who was always prepared to support his leaders. Why have I changed? Because the principles for which we were all returned in 1892—for which the right hon. Gentleman and I were returned to this House—have been broken by the leaders of the Unionist and Conservative parties and have been broken when those principles were shown to be right. Let me remind my right hon. Friend of what happened in 1885. Does he suppose that the late Mr. Joseph Chamberlain, the late Duke of Devonshire and the late Duke of Argyll left the party with which they had been identified for so many years without good and adequate reasons. Has not their action been amply justified? What did they say? They said that Home Rule was only the stepping stone to a Republic. I think it was Mr. Michael Davitt, but,
345Sir F. BANBURY
: And so we would have.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: How do you know?Mr. LYNN
: I shall deal with that interruption in a moment. The House of Commons in 1914 passed a Home Rule Bill. I would remind hon. Members, as was pointed out by my Noble Friend the Member for Oxford University (Lord H. Cecil) a short time ago, that in September, 1914, Mr. Redmond said that that Act would unite the two peoples in a friendly alliance which never would be broken.Sir F. BANBURY
: And you killed him for saying so.Mr. JONES
346"It is absurd to think we have settled the Irish Question when both Parliaments agree to this. Ireland is in a state of demoralisation and chaos as great as ever has been almost in any country. That is not going to be changed by waving a wand."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 15th December, 1921; col. 208, Vol. 149.]: Within two years, when this country was endeavouring to defend itself against the attacks of Germany, and when our position was none too good, that was the moment chosen by the Southern Irish to rebel against us in conjunction with our enemies. Had not we always said, had not the right hon. Gentleman's relative always said, that that would be the result? If Mr. Redmond was wrong when he made that prophecy—and when Mr. Redmond made that prophecy there was not a single dissentient voice in Ireland, they all agreed with it—what hope have we that the five delegates are right when they say that they hope a new era of peace will result from this Agreement, when we know that, at any rate, a minority of the Sinn Feiners in Ireland are bitterly opposed to the Agreement? The right hon. Member for Central Glasgow (Mr. Bonar Law) said yesterday:
346"It is absurd to think we have settled the Irish Question when both Parliaments agree to this. Ireland is in a state of demoralisation and chaos as great as ever has been almost in any country. That is not going to be changed by waving a wand."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 15th December, 1921; col. 208, Vol. 149.]Sir F. BANBURY
: Do not rub it in; we have done that.Mr. MILLS
"The old world must end. The Prime Minister's message to the people. Millions of gallant young men have fought for the new world. … If we fail to honour the promise given to them we dishonour ourselves. What does a new world mean? What was the old world like? It was a world where toil for myriads of honest workers, men and women, purchased nothing better than squalor, penury, anxiety, and wretchedness—a world scarred by slums and disgraced by sweating, where unemployment through the vicissitudes of industry brought to despair multitudes of humble homes.": I have a paper here which was issued in September, 1919, and it is in large leaded type. It says:
"The old world must end. The Prime Minister's message to the people. Millions of gallant young men have fought for the new world. … If we fail to honour the promise given to them we dishonour ourselves. What does a new world mean? What was the old world like? It was a world where toil for myriads of honest workers, men and women, purchased nothing better than squalor, penury, anxiety, and wretchedness—a world scarred by slums and disgraced by sweating, where unemployment through the vicissitudes of industry brought to despair multitudes of humble homes."Sir F. BANBURY
: Has Labour helped to fulfil those promises?Mr. STANTON
351350"I am endeavouring to ask some of those whom I knew personally in this House if something cannot be done to bring the case of Irish ex-service men before the notice of Parliament during this week's Debate. It has been part of my duty to correspond with
350You can imagine my feelings, like those of many others, when I saw that the Irish delegates were received as welcome guests by the Prime Minister of England and his colleagues. And now the Government, in cowardly subjection to these criminals, whom the Lord Chancellor describes as sincere and honest men, have arranged, amidst a manufactured chorus of their subservient Press, entirely to forget those who were loyal to the British connection, and, without one single guarantee for our safety or one work of sympathy for our sorrows, to hand us over to their tender mercies."349"I am only the mother of a young officer who served his country during the whole period of the War, gained many distinctions, and commanded his battalion in many engagements, won his D.S.O. and a bar and
349348347: We are going to discuss what is called a treaty. We can make treaties with Germany and France, but we cannot make a treaty with Yorkshire, and how can we make a treaty with Ireland? The Act of Union has not been repealed. Ireland is still a part of this country, and how can we make a treaty except with a foreign country? Why has the word "treaty" been used? It is because the Sinn Feiners refused to have anything to do with it unless words were put in which involved the recognition of an independent nation. There was a little discussion yesterday between the
351350"I am endeavouring to ask some of those whom I knew personally in this House if something cannot be done to bring the case of Irish ex-service men before the notice of Parliament during this week's Debate. It has been part of my duty to correspond with
350You can imagine my feelings, like those of many others, when I saw that the Irish delegates were received as welcome guests by the Prime Minister of England and his colleagues. And now the Government, in cowardly subjection to these criminals, whom the Lord Chancellor describes as sincere and honest men, have arranged, amidst a manufactured chorus of their subservient Press, entirely to forget those who were loyal to the British connection, and, without one single guarantee for our safety or one work of sympathy for our sorrows, to hand us over to their tender mercies."349"I am only the mother of a young officer who served his country during the whole period of the War, gained many distinctions, and commanded his battalion in many engagements, won his D.S.O. and a bar and
349348347Sir F. BANBURY
cut de sac355cul de sac."The commonest error in politics is to cling to the carcases of dead policies."354353352: Whatever may be the issue of this Debate, it will, I think, rank as one of the greatest Debates in the history of this House, alike in the importance of the subject with which it has dealt, and in the character of more than one of the speeches which have been delivered. Among those speeches there stands out conspicuously the speech delivered yesterday by my right hon. Friend (Mr. Bonar Law), my predecessor in the position I have the honour to occupy to-day. That is one of those speeches which is more than a speech, it is an act—a great act of statesmanship and wisdom befitting the long experience of his high position.cut de sac355cul de sac."The commonest error in politics is to cling to the carcases of dead policies."354353352Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: May I ask the right hon. Gentleman if he did not lead us out of this House in 1914 against the Home Rule Bill?Sir F. BANBURY
: He has learned sense since.Mr. J. JONES
: I was not the Leader of the party at that time.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: You were one of the leaders, and we all went out.Sir F. BANBURY
: Certainly, I went out, and I voted against it.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: You did not vote.Lord HUGH CECIL
356: No, I was wrong; we did not vote. Of course, I was a Leader of the party at that time. But what is there in anything that I have said since, or anything that I have said this afternoon, that contradicts that action? I do not follow my right hon. Friend.356Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Stick to that!Mr. LYNN
: What about the Act of 1920?Captain CRAIG
: I do not follow the hon. and gallant Member.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: By the Act of 1920 we were given our own Parliament. Now you have taken us, so to speak, and put us into another Parliament, and you tell us that if we do not like it, we must come out.Captain CRAIG
: My hon. and gallant Friend is, I think, trying to make a mountain out of a mole-hill.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: This is not one of cur strongest points, I admit.Captain CRAIG
: He is imagining a grievance where there is no grievance. No act of the Parliament of the Irish Free State will affect Northern Ireland without the consent of Northern Ireland. Is not that the substance of what you have asked? That you have got.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: The fact that you put us there shows that you think we ought to go there.Captain CRAIG
: If I understand it, the argument of my hon. Friend is that we had no right to suggest to Ulster that she should go into the Irish Free State Parliament.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman allow me——Mr. MOLES
: I am trying to get along. My hon. Friend the Leader of the Ulster Parliament gave his consent to the case which I have just put.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
357: Does the right hon. Gentleman say that it is at all fair that, in face of the deliberate pledge given by the Prime Minister at that box—that under
357Mr. MOLES
358: Ulster is not effectively included unless she choose to be so. No legislative act of the Parliament of the Free State has any effect in Ulster without her consent. Hon. Members suggest that we had no right to invite Ulster to consider whether she could not come into an All-Ireland Parliament. If we had not put that proposition to them, we should never have got what we have got for the first time—the assent of the representatives of Southern Ireland to recognise the right of Northern Ireland to remain outside.358Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: What some of us want to know is, Why did you do it at all? The area was finally fixed by the Act of 1920, after consideration by Parliament. Why did you alter it?Mr. R. McNEILL
: Will you put the names of the Commissioners in the Bill?Lord H. CECIL
359: My hon. Friend, rather more extreme in these matters than the Ulster Members, wants to know what justification there was for altering the boundary. May I put this question? If, in exchange for men brought reluctantly under the Government of Northern Ireland, you can give them men whom they abandoned with equal reluctance, and only under the compulsion of a desire for a peaceable settlement, if in exchange for those who were unwilling to submit to their rule you can give them those who long to be under their rule, what injury have we clone? Does not such a solution as that help good government in Ireland, strengthen their hands and make for peace on both sides of the boundary?359Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Having, I hope, liberated to-day one people, I crave the liberty of saying something on the Motion for Adjournment with regard to another people. I refer to the position as regards the Greeks and Armenians in Cilicia. There is a very strong feeling in favour of the rights of these peoples, and I ask if it is not possible under the Rules of Order to arrange for a discussion in reference to it?Mr. O'CONNOR
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative, and to the second in the negative.Mr. YOUNG
: In order to meet the general convenience of the House, may I ask the Leader of the House whether it is possible for him to make some general arrangement as to the hour when the Amendment to the Address is likely to be put this afternoon?Sir S. ROBERTS
: Of course, that does not rest with me. It is not within my power to fix the hour at which the Debate shall come to an end, but, so far as I can gather, we may hope that a decision may be taken about 4 o'clock. I cannot say definitely. A decision may be taken earlier, or it may prove, on the other hand, that I am over-sanguine. So far as I can forecast the probable course of our proceedings, from certain information which has reached me, I should hope that we may come to a decision about 4 o'clock.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: No. We are not contemplating the Closure, but I believe that all of us, however strongly we feel and whatever view we take, would like to consult the general convenience of the House, and it is within the knowledge of every Member of the House that it does become a matter of grave inconvenience if we have to sit late on a Friday, and, above all, on a Friday on which, up to a comparatively short time ago, no sitting was expected. I hope, therefore, with the consent of all parties, we may reach a decision at an hour sufficiently early not to cause great inconvenience to hon. Members.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I do not know whether the hon. Member has seen what I said last night on the Adjournment of the House. Perhaps I had better repeat it. We think that it would be undesirable, and that Parliament would not wish to prorogue under any uncertainty as to the result of the discussions now taking place on the other side of the Irish Channel. If, therefore, we do not have the result of those discussions in time for the Prorogation to take place to-day, I shall move that the House do adjourn till Monday.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
293: No, I propose to move the Adjournment till Monday. It is necessary to do that because the Committee of Supply has not been set up. It is necessary to move the Adjournment from Friday until Monday, other-
293Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
364: I would make this appeal, that the circumstances are ex-
364Mr. O'CONNOR
366: I will, of course, endeavour rigidly to adhere to the limits which you have put upon the observations which may be made, and my observations shall take the form of a vehement appeal to the Leader of the House and the Prime Minister for the discussion of a subject which to us is urgent, because tens of thousands of lives may be sacrificed even
366Mr. O'CONNOR
: I confess I think there is something inconvenient in the course which the Noble Lord has taken, and of which, I think, he was sensible himself. It is quite obvious that this is not a suitable occasion to attempt to discuss the grave matters to which he has alluded, nor do I conceive that there is need for any such discussion at all. I do not understand that there is any difference of opinion between the hon. Gentleman who first tried to raise this question and the Government. We are all anxious that everything that can be done should be done for the protection of these Christian populations. I am reluctant to embark on any discussion on the subject after the sense of the House has declared itself, that it is not desirable the Session should be prolonged in order that other subjects may be debated, but that it should be devoted to the one subject for which it has been summoned, and which it has now disposed of.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: On a point of Order. Supposing that on Monday Questions terminate before the attendance of Black Rod. What will happen between the termination of Questions and the appearance of Black Rod? Will you, Mr. Speaker, leave the Chair, or is it the intention of the Government to move, "That the House do now adjourn," or is it open to any private Member to move "That this House do now adjourn"?Captain W. BENN
30.  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether the work of the special department of Scotland Yard has been modified or curtailed since the retirement of Sir Basil Thomson?Captain W. BENN
: Is the work described by the late Chief as being his work being continued by his successor?Captain BENN
: Is the right hon. Gentleman prepared to say that the work of cataloguing political opinions and watching political meetings—purely political work as distinguished from criminal work—has been now abandoned?Captain BENN
: Is any of the work described by Sir Basil Thomson in his articles paid for out of Secret Service money?Captain W. BENN
13.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty what will be the total charge in connection with the four new battleships whose construction has now been abandoned?Captain WEDGWOOD BENN
: Can the hon. Gentleman tell us whether the four ships are to be proceeded with or not?Captain BENN
: Will the House be informed how much money has been thrown away owing to this mistake?Captain BENN
: Do we understand from the hon. Gentleman that the Government might consent to further military sanctions without consulting this House?Captain W. BENN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman give part of that £250,000 to the unfortunate refugees from Russia who are now in workhouses in this country?Colonel Sir C. YATE
367: I see the Prime Minister has come in. May I ask him if it is not possible for the House to meet to-morrow instead of adjourning to Mon-
367Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Will it not be proper on Monday, if the House is not prorogued, to have a Debate on a Motion that the House do adjourn till Tuesday? Could we not then raise this matter and discuss this or any other question which it may be desired to bring forward? If the House is prorogued on Monday, will it not be possible to speak on a Motion for the Adjournment of the House until such time as the Prorogation is actually effected by the appearance at the Bar of Black Rod?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: But cannot we discuss matters until he does come?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Does not the constitutional objection to paying taxes for which they have not voted also extend to the native Indians in the Kenya collieries?Colonel WEDGWOOD
6.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether he will lay Papers or inform the House as to the present position of the franchise and segregation question in Kenya Colony, including his instructions to the Governor and the correspondence with the India Office?Colonel WEDGWOOD
7.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether he is aware that the annual rent or tax paid by the settlers in Kenya for the land they occupy is reckoned at so many cents per acre; that the change in the Kenya currency has not halved the value of the cent in relation to the florin, and that the result of the change has been to halve rents paid by the settler when cents were 100 to the florin; and how do the Government expect to make good the revenue so lost?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Do you expect Germany to pay for these ships?Colonel WEDGWOOD
1.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the plebiscite in the Burgenland is being taken with the consent of the Austrian Government; and whether the date of the plebiscite has been advanced so as to assist a Hungarian solution with the approval of His Majesty's Government?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Is it not a fact that Hejjas and the White Terror troops were still in occupation of the Burgenland when the plebiscite was taken?Colonel WEDGWOOD
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeLieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
3.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs if he can give any information regarding the military situation in Asia Minor of the Turkish and Greek forces; what steps His Majesty's Government are taking to bring about a cessation of hostilities in these regions; and whether any conversations are taking place or have recently taken place between representatives of His Majesty's Government and of the Angora Government?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Does the hon. Gentleman not wish that he had taken our advice to postpone the construction of these ships until after the Washington Conference?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: May I ask the Leader of the House whether further sanctions, such as occupying the Ruhr, are not equivalent to a fresh declaration of war, and should not this House be informed and consulted before such a grave step is taken, or is it only to be discussed with the Prime Minister in his private room, and this House ignored in the matter?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: On the constitutional point, may I ask the Leader of the House whether what are virtually new declarations of war should be embarked upon before an explanation is given to the House.Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: What is the use of that?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
266: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that this situ-
266Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: But when the questions are finished on Monday, presuming there are not many, as is likely, would it not be possible, on a Motion for the Adjournment, to discuss this matter until such time as the appearance of Black Rod terminates the proceedings?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Seeing that the Prime Minister is now seized of the desire of the hon. Member for the Scotland Division, may I ask him if the Government, after questions on Monday, will be prepared to make a Motion that the House do now adjourn, and thus give an opportunity for discussing a question on which hon. Members feel more keenly than I do, and also giving the Government an opportunity of expressing their views on a subject on which they have been very mum ever since the Treaty of Sèvres was signed? Will not the Government take the opportunity of allowing hon. Members who, after all, have come here to support them in their policy, to raising another matter about which they also feel as keenly as we do?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman hold out any hope of this purely War-time Department being wound up as being altogether un-English and against our traditions?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: In the interests of minorities and for the sake of our own great interests in the East, will the Government consider the advisability of adopting an entire new policy towards Turkey?Mr. A. HERBERT
: Will not the Government communicate with the Sinn Fein negotiators on this question of the Flag, which no doubt will excite considerable interest in the country and in this House?Mr. HARMSWORTH
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. ESMOND HARMSWORTH
: That certainly is not the case, because we have offered and disposed of a very large volume of ships for breaking up in this country at far lower prices than the particular block which has gone abroad, and we did this in order to relieve unemployment to the fullest extent.Mr. AMERY
: My right hon. Friend's question raises a point of detail with reference to the contracts. Questions of that sort may arise, but I do not think it would be in the public interest to go into them now.Mr. AMERY
: I am ready to consider any practical suggestion which the hon. Member can make.Mr. AMERY
: I have no information on that subject. As regards the other supplementary question, the only shipbuilding I can deal with is Admiralty shipbuilding.Mr. AMERY
: I regret I cannot give figures of the total charge which will be incurred in the event of the contracts for the four new battle cruisers being cancelled.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the ADMIRALTY (Mr. Amery)
: Certainly the House will be informed.Mr. AMERY
: The construction of the four battle cruisers for the present is in suspense. What will ultimately be done will depend on the outcome of the Washington Conference.Mr. AMERY
272: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. This step was taken after every effort had been made to dispose of these ships
272Mr. AMERY
: We have approached a number of firms to see whether they could not possibly take part in ship-breaking, but they all found it impossible to do so because, for one reason, they are overstocked with scrap, and there is already over 1,000,000 tons of surplus vessels being broken up in this country at this moment.Mr. AMERY
: Is it not a fact that two of these ships have to be built, and that this news is in the paper to-day?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Is it not a fact that last month Germany doubled the import duty on incandescent gas mantles in order to prevent mantles manufactured in this country from going into Germany?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
 asked the Chief Secretary whether he has any further information with reference to the summary discharge from Gormanstown Camp of 19 constable-mechanics of the Royal Irish Constabulary, on the 14th and 15th of December, without notice, and without their fares being paid to their homes?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeLieut. - Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Is it a fact that no fewer than 10,000,000 or 12,000,000 persons will die of starvation in Russia this winter, and is it not also the fact that it was due to the refusal of the British Government to entertain any proposal for an advance of credit that the League of Nations was unable to take action at Geneva?Lord R. CECIL
: That is a Standing Order. This is a special Motion, which should be discussed.Lord R. CECIL
: I desire to offer some reasons why I think it is very important why this House should sit to-morrow and not Monday, and I must be very careful not to transgress the ruling which you have given on the subject of what may be discussed and what may not. I should like very earnestly to ask the Government whether we can be quite sure that no irrevocable decision will be taken between this sitting and the next sitting of the House on any of the urgent and burning questions which are agitating the public mind. I can only point out the very deep interest that is taken, and the very great anger that is felt in all parts of the country that we should find ourselves in such a position that we are unable to discharge the solemn pledges we have given.Lord R. CECIL
: I understand the ruling you have just given to be that no general discussion such as takes place on an ordinary Motion for Adjournment is possible on this Motion, but I venture to ask you whether it would not be competent to urge reasons why we should sit to-morrow rather than on Monday, and, as one of these reasons, the great urgency of this question, in view of the meeting which is to take place on Monday between the Prime Minister of this country and the Prime Minister of France, and that therefore it is desirable if we were to sit to-morrow that we should, on the adjournment of the ordinary sitting to-morrow, have an opportunity of saying something, even if only for the half-hour that we are allowed at the end of the sitting. I agree that a discussion would have to be very restricted, but I submit that we are entitled to say something on that solitary point before the meeting between M. Briand and the Prime Minister. I do not wish to try to do something which you, Mr. Speaker, think improper.Lord R. CECIL
: This is a special case.Lord R. CECIL
365: May I give reasons why I think it undesirable that we should
365Lord R. CECIL
369: Would it be in order for me now to give notice that I will on
369Lord R. CECIL
: May I enquire whether the Government do not recognise that they are bound by the strongest possible obligations to do everything they can to protect the Armenians?Lord ROBERT CECIL
: Have the conditions altered since the appointments were made, that is the point?Sir N. MOORE
8.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether both the Governor of South Australia and the Governor of Tasmania have resigned their appointments, and have assigned as the reason that this step was taken as a result of the heavy taxation now levied in England?Major-General Sir N. MOORE
: In future appointments, may I ask whether such guarantees will be obtained from Governors-General-designate that will prevent a repetition of such an unsatisfactory position?Sir N. MOORE
37.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he is aware that the Greek Government is desirous of negotiating a private loan in this country; if so, whether it is understood that a substantial portion of that loan is to be expended in goods and material of a peaceful character purchased in Great Britain, and most of the remainder in the British Empire; and whether, under such circumstances, His Majesty's Treasury would view such a loan with favour, provided that the security offered was satisfactory to the parties negotiating it?Sir N. MOORE
: How can evidence be tested if the right of cross-examination is not given?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
20.  asked the President of the Board of Trade if he is satisfied that the procedure of his Department in placing substances, such as menthol, amongst the commodities which are liable as fine chemicals to a duty of 33⅓ per cent., and afterwards attaching the letter R to the names of these substances, thereby exempting them from duty, is not calculated to create considerable confusion; and is he prepared to give an undertaking that no such action will be repeated without public inquiry, of which notice has been previously circulated in the public Press instead of in a weekly journal published by the Board of Trade, of whose existence few traders are aware?Mr. NEWBOULD
19. 275 asked the President of the Board of Trade whether, in view of the decision of the referee that gas mantles which contain certain dutiable materials are liable to an import duty of 33⅓ per cent. on parts of the mantles, he proposes to give instructions that a duty of 33⅓ per cent. is to be levied
275Mr. NEWBOULD
: Will the hon. Gentleman say any one thing the Government have done effectively, and does he mean to say that the British Government is impotent and unable to carry out its promises?Mr. WILLIAMS
2.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the French have now completely evacuated Cilicia; whether it has been reoccupied by the Kemalist forces; whether the threats of the latter have produced panic among the non-Turkish inhabitants; and what is the present position of those refugees whom the British authorities caused to return there after the Armistice and of the other elements in the population who supported our cause in the War and to whom we in return promised freedom from Turkish government?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: How does the hon. Gentleman maintain his statement that these people were not sent back by the British authorities.Mr. WILLIAMS
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that I have in my possession a letter from the War Office stating that they have sent back refugees from Aleppo to Cilicia, and that refugees who wished to go to the South were not allowed to do so?Mr. WILLIAMS
: Will not the Government, in addition to this relatively small sum, join with the other Great Powers in making the necessary credits to save the lives of these millions of people?Mr. WILLIAMS
47.  asked the Prime Minister whether His Majesty's Government is aware that the number of starving people in the Russian famine area is far beyond the reach of private charity and whether the Government has decided to recommend the granting of credits to the Russian Government for the purpose of food without which millions of people must starve during this winter?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: A deputation of those deeply interested in this matter? I am sure the right hon. Gentleman will see the importance of the matter.Mr. WILLIAMS
: If the right hon. Gentleman the Prime Minister is not able to grant time in this House for a discussion such as we desire, will he follow the precedent that he himself has just mentioned in regard to the question of unemployment, and will he receive a deputation?Mr. A. WILLIAMS
43.  asked the Prime Minister if, in the event of this country agreeing to cancel France's War debt to Britain, one condition will be the evacuation by French troops of the occupied areas in the Rhine provinces?Mr. SPOOR
38. 262 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer if the amount of reparation received by Britain to date from
262Mr. SPOOR
: Does the amount to which the hon. Gentleman refers include the shipping which comes to this country from Germany, and which has had the direct effect of causing unemployment in the shipyards of this country?Mr. SPOOR
: I should like a notice of that question.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: The Austrian Government have protested against the holding of the plebiscite on 14th December, though, under the strict terms of the agreement signed at Venice by Austria and Hungary, it was due to be held by that date. I need hardly say that any suggestion that the date has been fixed in order to assist a Hungarian solution is altogether unjustified. His Majesty's Government are of course only concerned to see that the plebiscite should take place in circumstances which ensure to the utmost the maintenance of order and the freedom of the vote.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
24. 276 asked the President of the Board of Trade whether he will inquire into the great dissatisfaction that exists with regard to the procedure being adopted before the Committee appointed by him to consider applications under Part II of the Safeguarding of Industries Act; whether he is aware that evidence is not given under oath, and that therefore no penalty can be imposed for wilful false evidence; that cross-examination of witnesses is not permitted to objectors to the granting of applications; and that, in view of the fact that particulars of the evidence in support of an application are not furnished to objectors before the hear-
276Mr. C. WHITE
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that in practice the truth is disregarded and there is no remedy?Mr. WHITE
assented. assented.The PRIME MINISTER
: I shall be very glad to receive a deputation. Not only my convenience, however, but the convenience of the French Prime Minister will have to be considered in this respect.The PRIME MINISTER
: I believe that question has already been answered by the Leader of the House. The House has been summoned to deal with one topic, and if a Motion of this kind be allowed it might lead to further discussions. Yesterday, or the day before, I received a deputation from the Labour party and the trade unions on the subject of unemployment, because there was not an opportunity of discussing the matter in this House, as we were dealing exclusively with Ireland. In view of that, they assented to the idea of a deputation.The PRIME MINISTER
: The expenditure I described in reply to a question in this House on the 10th November is borne by the Metropolitan Police Fund, the Treasury grants to which are included in the Vote for Police (England and Wales).Mr. SHORTT
: No, Sir.Mr. SHORTT
: No, Sir; I have not taken the advice of the Law Officers, but if the House desires it I will do so. The answer I gave was that I did not think it could be said that police authorities were bound in law to carry out the recommendations of the Desborough Committee, either as regards increased pay or reassessment of pension. That is the advice I have been giveen. It is a purely legal question, and not a question of fact at all.Mr. SHORTT
: As I informed the House last month, the Department referred to is being reorganised with a view to securing greater efficiency and economy. To that end modifications are being carried out, and it is hoped that economies may be effected.The SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Mr. Shortt)
: It is not a War-time Department at all.Mr. SHORTT
: I am afraid that I do not know what the late Chief has described as being his work.Mr. SHORTT
: No, Sir.Mr. SHORTT
: I have not said anything of the sort. I said that it was being modified with a view to greater efficiency.Mr. SHORTT
: I am afraid I cannot answer that, because I have not read the articles.Mr. SHORTT
: I do not think it can be said that police authorities were bound in law to carry out the recommendations of the Desborough Committee, either as regards increased pay or re-assessment of pensions, but I believe that these recommendations were in fact given effect to in all proper cases.Mr. SHORTT
: I think that is the same question which I have answered.Mr. SHORTT
: That is a legal question, of course, and I am advised that the local authorities have a discretion in that, as I have said, they are not bound in law to carry out the recommendations.Mr. SHORTT
: The centralisation at one depot of the examination of the parcels, the scrutiny of invoices, and the assessment and receipt of levy and duty in respect of all parcels arriving in London from Germany, has now been effected in conjunction with the postal authorities, and if the addressees will carry out the instructions given on the form of advice sent on arrival of the parcels, they should not experience any delay in delivery beyond such as is inevitable in collection of the levy or duty. As regards the third part of the question, if the hon. Member will give me particulars of the case referred to, I will have inquiry made.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Hilton Young)
: No, Sir. I think the facts of the case are not as suggested by the hon. Member. The complaints are not increasing, and I very much trust and believe that the measures to which I have referred in the answer will lead to their diminution and disappearance.Mr. YOUNG
: Have you got the murderers?Sir F. BANBURY
: Can the right hon. Gentleman inform us who are the chartered accountants?Mr. WISE
: Then has the Government no responsibility for those who have now left Cilicia?Mr. BARNES
: Can the hon. Gentleman say how many of these people have now left Cilicia; and has there any reply been given on their behalf, in a collective sense, to the Proclamation a few weeks ago of the French Commander-in-Chief?Mr. G. BARNES
: Has anything been done by way of compensation to the shipbuilders who are going to lose money on these contracts; and if so, will anything be done correspondingly with regard to the workmen who will lose wages?Mr. G. BARNES
12.  asked the Minister of Agriculture what steps he proposes to take with regard to the students employed on the farms in the West Norfolk area, where a dispute has taken place because the employer refuses to comply with the decision of the County Conciliation Committee, as these students, being subsidised by public money, are now performing the work of the men locked out?Mr. G. EDWARDS
11. 270 asked the Minister of Agriculture what action he proposes to take to bring about a settlement of the West Norfolk farm dispute,
270Mr. G. EDWARDS
: The total area under poppy cultivation in British India amounted to 156,435 acres in the year 1919–20. 9,823 chests of opium were exported in that year. The countries which imported this opium were the Straits Settlements, Dutch East Indies, Siam, French Indo-China, Japan, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, British North Borneo, Ceylon, Mauritius and the Fiji Islands. My right hon. Friend is not in a position to state how much of the raw opium exported from India to other countries is there converted into prepared opium for smoking.Colonel GIBBS (Treasurer of the Household)
: Yes, Sir.Colonel GIBBS
: I am not in a position to state that myself, but I will tell my right hon. Friend what the right hon. Gentleman says.Colonel GIBBS
33.  asked the Home Secretary what Vote bore the cost of the work of Sir Basil Thomson as recently described by him?Mr. G. THORNE
283: I regret to state that Sergeant Enright was murdered and Constable Timmoney wounded on the 14th instant, as stated in the question. Steps
283Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I understand that a number of constable-mechanics, on completion of their engagement, were through inadvertence discharged from Gormanstown Camp on the dates stated in the question without being given return railway warrants. As soon as this mistake was brought to notice, steps were at once taken to prevent its recurrence and to rectify it as far as regards the men who had not been given warrants on discharge.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, they have co-operated. They have helped the Government in several cases.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: They have helped the Government in inquiries endeavouring to secure the arrest of murderers.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I can add nothing to the answer.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I am not in a position to make any statement at the present time on the question of the completion of land purchase.The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: I must ask the hon. and gallant Member to accept the answer that I have given as the best that I can give.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I would refer the hon. and learned Baronet to the reply that I gave yesterday to a private notice question on this subject asked by the hon. and gallant Member for Finchley (Colonel Newman).Sir H. GREENWOOD
25.  asked the Secretary of State for India what is the acreage in India now under cultivation with the opium poppy; how many chests of Indian opium are now exported annually; what are the destinations of this exported opium; and whether any and, if any, how much is converted into prepared opium for smoking?Mr. GILBERT
34. 277 asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he is aware of the congestion and confusion prevailing and the consequent difficulty in obtaining delivery of parcels from Germany owing to the collection by His Majesty's Customs of the duties under the Safeguarding of Industries Act and the German Reparations Act; that certain parcels which arrived in this country for Christmas trade on the 21st and 24th October, could not be delivered by the Post Office until various forms had been filled up and duties paid; and that, though those formalities were duly completed and a receipt obtained on the 16th November, 1921, a part of the consignment is still
277Mr. KILEY
: Then why object to having a committee to investigate?Mr. KILEY
35.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer if he is aware that many hundreds of packages of perfume which are mixtures of natural essences and synthetics that have lost their identity are lying at the docks and at the Post Office Customs Department, and cannot be obtained except on payment of a duty improperly demanded; and will he direct the Customs officials to release such parcels?Mr. KILEY
: Seeing that the complaints are increasing in number every day, would not the hon. Gentleman appoint a small committee of City men to investigate and do something to clear up this tremendous delay?Mr. KILEY
: When does the right hon. Gentleman expect to be able to give some information on this subject considering the confusion which undoubtedly exists in the trade?Mr. KILEY
17. b asked the President of the Board of Trade whether, seeing that the Czecho-Slovak currency had no pre-War standard, did not in fact exist before February, 1919, and that therefore it has not depreciated to an extent of 33⅓ per cent. therefrom, and that the Government of the Dominion of Canada has officially recognised this to be a fact, and is in consequence admitting Czecho-Slovak goods free, of duty, he will state why under Clause 2 (bMr. KILEY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the gas mantles imported into this country from Germany in 1920 exceeded by 15 times the number imported in 1919, and that according to the "Times" Trade Supplement the imports this year equalled the total consumption of gas mantles in this country?Sir J. REMNANT
23.  asked the President of the Board of Trade how many regional transport officers are still employed in the Food Control Department; what are their duties; what pay do these officers receive; and when he proposes to dispense with their services?Sir J. REMNANT
: Am I not entitled to ask the Home Secretary, who has charge of this matter, the simple question whether, after this House has approved of a certain scale of pension and pay, behind that the various police authorities have the right and discretion to alter it at their own free will?Sir J. REMNANT
: I am sorry to be persistent in this matter, but I did not gather from the right hon. Gentleman's answer whether the amounts of pay and pension, as adopted deliberately by this House, are subject to alteration at the discretion of the various police authorities. Is that so, yes or no?Sir J. REMNANT
: Is there any right conferred by this House on the men, or are the scales of pay and pension recommended by the Desborough Committee, and afterwards adopted by this House, subject to alteration at the discretion of the police authorities?Sir J. REMNANT
31.  asked the Home Secretary whether a constable who retired after 31st March, 1919, has a right to have his pension re-assessed on the Desborough scale of pay which came into operation on 1st April, 1919, or whether such re-assessment is at the discretion of the police authority who granted the original pension?Sir J. REMNANT
: Will the right hon. Gentleman leave out for the moment the Desborough Committee's decision, and say whether, in view of what the House definitely decided, the local police authorities have the right at their discretion to flout the House, and do what they like?Sir J. REMNANT
: And if it is not clear may I have a clear answer?Sir J. REMNANT
: On a point of Order. Where my question is not answered, and intentionally not answered, by the Home Secretary, the Minister to whom I addressed it, because, as he says, there is some legal question involved in the point—in my humble opinion it is a matter of administration—surely I am entitled to press for an answer, yes or no, where the House itself has deliberately laid down that a certain scale shall be adopted in reference to these men?Sir J. REMNANT
: With all submission, that is not a clear answer. I asked the right hon. Gentleman if he would kindly say, yes or no, whether it is in the discretion of the various police authorities to alter the scale laid down in this House.Sir J. REMNANT
: On a point of Order. In view of the character of this extraordinary Session, and of what the Leader of the House has said about the desirability of devoting the Session to Ireland, I am in a difficulty, and I should be glad to have your advice, Mr. Speaker, on the position which arises out of the very unsatisfactory answer given to-day to the question which I put to the Home Secretary. The answer failed entirely to give me the facts to which I was entitled. In view of the great unrest that has been created throughout the police forces of this country——Sir J. REMNANT
288: I was endeavouring to explain the point on which I desire your advice, and that is, how to bring this matter before the House, so that the House may show its decision, which, in my opinion, it has already given in connection with this matter. It is an urgent matter, because of the fact that there is great unrest among the police forces of this country, due to rumours that the Home Office will not stop, or will not do anything to prevent, local police authorities altering the scale of pay and pensions which have been definitely laid down by this House. Those rumours have been
288Sir J. REMNANT
sine die,: Will it be adjourned sine die,Sir J. REMNANT
: The Noble Lord will see that there might be 600 Members in the House who, on subsequent Fridays, would avail themselves of the leave given if I failed in my duty in maintaining the Rule. The procedure that he suggests would be a mere evasion of the established Rules of the House, and I could not countenance it for a moment, but the very fact that on a Friday we do not even have the half-hour or hour that is usual on the other days——Mr. SPEAKER
: I am here to administer the Rules of the House, and when I have looked up the precedents, I cannot see my way to allow a departure of that kind, which would break down the Rule altogether.Mr. SPEAKER
: I should have thought the Noble Lord's experience at the Bar would have taught him the answer to his question. If I were to give way to that seductive plea, the whole Rule, which has existed for about 60 years, would disappear.Mr. SPEAKER
: I think only the Government could put forward a Motion at that time.Mr. SPEAKER
: Until he does come, there will be of course questions in the ordinary way.Mr. SPEAKER
: In regard to the first question of the hon. and gallant Member, certainly if on Monday there be a Motion to adjourn till Tuesday—a Motion "That the House do nod adjourn" involving as it would a sitting on the following day, then the usual hour before 11.30 will be open to hon. Members for the purposes of discussion. With regard to the second part of the question, that I cannot answer as I do not know at what time Black Rod may come.Mr. SPEAKER
: That is only putting in other words the question on the Paper.Mr. SPEAKER
: It cannot be discussed by bringing in the kind of questions which are relevant to an ordinary adjournment. It would be a mere evasion of the Rule, and my obvious duty is to stop it.Mr. SPEAKER
: I am afraid I have been too lax in allowing the Debate, which, as I have already said, is not in order. If hon. Members will be good enough to look at the rulings of my predecessor on the 5th and 12th December, 1902, they will see that the Debate cannot be permitted.Mr. SPEAKER
: The Noble Lord can hand in his Motion, and see what happens.Mr. SPEAKER
: I have just explained that it is not open to any private Member to move an Adjournment of the House, and that in the ordinary course it is my duty to leave the Chair till Black Rod appears with his summons.Mr. SPEAKER
: The House has come to a decision on that matter.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member had better consult me in the course of the day. I had no notice of this question. If he will be good enough to consult. me in the course of to-day, I will give him the best advice I can.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member is not entitled to make a speech. I understood that he had a point to put to me.Mr. SPEAKER
: Perhaps the Home Secretary will read the answer again.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Baronet has received a quite clear answer on the legal position, namely, that the Home Secretary was advised that there was nothing legally binding on the local authorities.Mr. SPEAKER
: That is exactly the question which the hon. Baronet put on the Paper.Mr. SPEAKER
: I am afraid there is no opportunity for a general Debate on this Motion. I have looked up precedents as far back as 1856, and I find the rule has always been that no discussion can take place on the Motion for Adjournment from Friday to Monday.Mr. SPEAKER
: We are now having a debate.Mr. SPEAKER
: There is another question on that point.Mr. SPEAKER
: That is the same question again.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. Member is making a speech.Mr. SPEAKER
: Has the hon. Gentleman any favourite charity which would receive a cheque for 50 guineas if he can show that the proposal is impracticable?Mr. STEVENS
40.  asked the Prime Minister whether, having regard to the fact that a trifling proportion of currency issues if continuously employed is requisite for exchanging imports and exports, he will consider the feasibility of a system of credits being jointly arranged between Great Britain, the United States of America, France, Italy, and Belgium, by which the necessary amount in pounds, dollars, francs, and lire can be stabilised over a period of years, and with little risk of loss?Mr. M. STEVENS
42.  asked the Prime Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the price demanded for Ken Wood by its owner and whether he is prepared to introduce legislation to tax land in Great Britain upon the basis of the price at which the owner is willing to sell?Mr. N. MACLEAN
: Is it not the case that direct breaches of public faith have already been made by the Government, and that the same argument can be applied to this as to the reduction of wages of the workers, where also a direct pledge was given, namely, that the cost of living is coming down and that consequently the cost of money should come down as well?Mr. MACLEAN
36.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, in view of his declaration that a cut of £175,000,000 is required in national expenditure, he has considered the desirability of a reduction of two per cent. in the rate of interest on war loans, which would effect a saving of approximately £160,000,000; and if so, whether he is prepared to advise the Government to take the necessary steps to effect this saving?Mr. N. MACLEAN
: Is there no intention on the part of the Government to introduce legislation to prevent individuals from withholding this necessary of public life from the public, or at least from imposing such an abnormal price as to amount to blackmailing the public of London?Mr. MACLEAN
: Considering that this House has voted these sums to be spent on shipbuilding, cannot the hon. Gentleman see his way to adopt some alternative scheme of spending the money in order to alleviate unemployment in the shipbuilding districts?Mr. NEIL MACLEAN
14.  asked the Parliamentary Secretary to the Admiralty whether the Admiralty has signed a contract for the breaking up of a number of British warships in Germany; and, if so, whether he can give to the House the reasons for this action when there are so many men unemployed in Britain who could do this work?Mr. N. MACLEAN
: Surely the unemployed men in the shipbuilding places who have constructed those vessels are equally able to destroy them, and facilities are there in the yards for the destruction of any vessels? Why is it, therefore, necessary that the Government, which is supposed to be giving money to the unemployed, should not give work to these men instead of doles, and permit those vessels to be broken up in those yards, although it may cost a little more money than in Germany?Mr. N. MACLEAN
: Is the Government prepared to make an offer to the trade unions affected, giving them the option of finding men to break up the ships in this country?Mr. N. MACLEAN
5.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether any report has yet been received from Ceylon as to the desirability of a reform of the constitution of the Colony or the lines which any such reform should follow?Mr. RHYS DAVIES
46.  asked the Prime Minister whether His Majesty's Government endorse the recommendation of the recent Conference of Premiers respecting equality of status for British citizens, whether Indian or European; and whether any steps have yet been taken to carry out this new doctrine in British Crown Colonies and especially in the matter of the Kenya franchise and segregation?Mr. RHYS DAVIES
45.  asked the Prime Minister whether His Majesty's Government have asked at Washington that under certain circumstances they should be allowed to construct one of the Hoods rather than accede to the exact basis of fleet equality with America; and, if so, why?Mr. RHYS DAVIES
: I must ask for notice of that question.Sir R. SANDERS
284: I would refer the Noble Lord to the reply given to a similar question which he addressed to my right hon. Friend on the 27th October last. I can assure the Noble Lord that every endeavour is being made to ex-
284Sir R. SANDERS
: The answer is in the negative.Sir R. SANDERS
: The reply to the first part of the Noble Lord's question is in the negative; the latter part does not therefore arise.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for WAR (Lieut.-Colonel Sir R. Sanders)
287: May I ask the Home Secretary whether he has taken the opinion of the Law Officers of the
287Mr. RONALD McNEILL
: Are we to understand that this very important work, in view of the unrest throughout the world, is being curtailed at the present time?Mr. GWYNNE
: Does the right hon. Gentleman propose to closure the Debate at a particular hour?Mr. M'GUFFIN
: I desire to ask the Leader of the House if it is intended that the discussion of the Amendments should be resumed on Monday next. As a member of the Labour party coming from Ireland, I hoped that I should have had an opportunity of speaking in the Debate. I interrogated the right hon. Gentleman earlier in the day, and I understood that there would be practically no limit to the time which would be given to the Debate to-day.Mr. M'GUFFIN
b: There appears to be no doubt that the Czecho-Slovak Government adopted the currency unit of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire as its official unit, since the paper currency issued by the Austro-Hungarian Bank was given official currency in Czecho-Slovakia subject to being stamped by the authorities of that country. The parity of exchange, with reference to which depreciation is to be calculated in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 (1) (bThe PRESIDENT of the BOARD of TRADE (Mr. Baldwin)
: Perhaps it would answer all the questions if I say that I only had the official decision yesterday. I am carefully considering that decision, and I hope it may be possible to arrive at a conclusion at a very early date. I quite recognise it is essential to this industry that this should be done at once.Mr. BALDWIN
: The answer to both parts of the question is in the negative.Mr. BALDWIN
: I am carefully considering the position created by the decision in question, but I am unable to make any statement at present.Mr. BALDWIN
: Notice has been given to terminate the engagement of the regional transport officers of the Food Department at the end of the present month. It will be necessary, however, to retain some of these officers during the month of January for the disposal of papers, the winding-up of accounts and other work connected with the termination of their branch. By the abolition of the regional transport staff a saving of about £31,000 a year in respect of salaries will be effected.Mr. BALDWIN
: Oh, permanently? None, or very few. Speaking from memory, I think the expenditure for January will be about £1,500.Mr. BALDWIN
: I should be sorry to assent to the proposition of the hon. Member. I have no reason to believe that people tell lies when they come as witnesses before these Committees, and, having regard to the class of men chosen to serve on these Committees, I imagine that they are quite capable of distinguishing between the truth and fiction.Mr. BALDWIN
: Of course, the word "tested" needs definition, but I think the procedure is quite sufficient for the purpose.Mr. BALDWIN
: The Safeguarding of Industries Act confers no powers on Committees to take evidence on oath. The Statutory Rules of Procedure, a copy of which I am sending to the hon. Member, provide that no witness shall be examined or cross-examined except by the members of the Committee. This limitation, which was decided on by the Board of Trade after full consideration, applies of course to all witnesses, whether they appear in support of or in opposition to an application. With regard to the last part of the question, this is a matter within the discretion of the Committees themselves. I have no doubt that they will afford all proper facilities to witnesses to enable them to present their cases.Mr. BALDWIN
: Certain Amendments have been made to the lists as originally issued under the Safeguarding of Industries Act, but all the Amendments so far made restrict the scope of the original lists. It is obvious that in lists such as those in question it must be necessary to make some corrections, and I see no reason to modify the procedure adopted. I should add that I do not accept the statement at the end of the question as being correct.Mr. BALDWIN
267: I did not suggest that that small space of time should be given until the Irish business is disposed of. It is not for me to stand between Ireland and the Treaty. I should be glad if the right hon. Gentleman—[HON. MEMBERS: "No!"] I have not the smallest doubt
267Mr. O'CONNOR
: If this Session is not going to be ended to-day in view of the very strong feeling which exists in the country on this question, could the right hon. Gentleman manage to give us a few hours for discussion?Mr. O'CONNOR
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: Were not many of these people sent back by the French authorities; and, further, may I ask if the information and experience, unfortunately, of the Armenians in Cilicia, as to the effect upon their future of Turkish control, has not already been vindicated by the plight of thousands of refugees?Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: Is it not a fact that you have transferred the breaking up of these ships to Germany because they are paying lower wages than we are?Mr. T. GRIFFITHS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman say whether, if the Imperial Government does not deal with the residue of the Irish land question in so far as the Irish Free State is concerned, it will deal with it in so far as Ulster, which will remain in this Imperial Parliament, is concerned?Mr. MOLES
: Is the right Gentleman aware that the position of the Royal Irish Constabulary is a matter of very great concern at the moment throughout Ireland, and that, unless something is done immediately, I do not know what will happen in the North and the South?Mr. DONALD
: I have not yet received such a report and, so far as my information goes, the matter has not yet been debated in the Legislative Council.Mr. CHURCHILL
"Where any contract entered into or instrument made before the commencement of this Order provides for the making of any payment in terms of cents, the contract or instrument shall have effect as if for references to any number of cents there were substituted references to twice that number of cents of a shilling.": Article 5 (3) of the Kenya and Uganda (Currency) Order in Council, 1921, provided that
"Where any contract entered into or instrument made before the commencement of this Order provides for the making of any payment in terms of cents, the contract or instrument shall have effect as if for references to any number of cents there were substituted references to twice that number of cents of a shilling."Mr. CHURCHILL
: I will consider the question of publication in connection with the presentation to Parliament of next year's Estimates.Mr. CHURCHILL
: I think that is a question which, if answered at all, would require to be answered with very considerable modification.Mr. CHURCHILL
: They have altered in the same way as all conditions have altered lately, to the detriment of everybody.Mr. CHURCHILL
: The question is a very difficult one in view of the heavy expenses of these appointments, and the difficulty of finding suitable persons who have independent means to fill them.Mr. CHURCHILL
: Both the Governors mentioned have, to my regret, found it necessary to resign their appointments. I cannot say whether or not the consideration referred to influenced their decisions.Mr. CHURCHILL
268: I understand that a motion for the removal of the Income Tax in Kenya has been moved in the Legislative Council and defeated, and that further opposition to the tax on constitutional grounds has been raised and will probably be tested in the Courts. I have no other information on this part of the hon. Member's question. The Income Tax Ordinance was passed on 7th December, 1920. It was not found possible to complete the necessary arrangements within the financial year 1920–21, and, as there would have been hardship in collecting two years' tax in one year, it was decided not to proceed with the levy of the tax for the financial year 1920–21. I have no information as to the direct taxation of Europeans and Indians separately, but taken together, the estimate for 1922 is £169,442, representing about five pounds per head. The
268The SECRETARY of STATE for the COLONIES (Mr. Churchill)
4.  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether the white settlers in Kenya are refusing to pay Income Tax because they were not consenting parties to the tax; whether the Income Tax law was passed in 1919 and never yet enforced; how much direct taxation is levied upon settlers, Indians, and natives, respectively, in Kenya; and whether he will consider the advisability of widening the franchise to Indians and natives in order that all parties may be consenting parties to the taxation they bear?Mr. ALLEN PARKINSON
: Can the hon. Gentleman give an assurance that it will be Published?Sir J. BUTCHER
: Will my right hon. Friend, in considering this matter, bear in mind that under the proposed settlement the position of Irish landlords will be one of intense danger and that they are entitled to the protection of this Parliament?Sir J. BUTCHER
27.  asked the Chief Secretary what provision is being made for the payment to owners of destroyed police barracks of the compensation awarded to them by the courts; whether he is aware that in some cases these owners have been left without rent or compensation for nearly two years; and whether he will take steps to remedy this hardship as soon as possible?Sir J. BUTCHER
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether Parliament will be prorogued to-day or on Monday?Sir J. BUTCHER
: Is it not a fact that this House deliberately decided against the inclusion of gas mantles in the first part of the Schedule?Sir RYLAND ADKINS
: At what time will the House meet on Monday?Viscount CURZON
: Will the Government consider extending the same scale of relief to the distressed Cornish miners, who are now starving, as the hon. Member wishes them to give to the Russians?Captain Viscount CURZON
29.  asked the Financial Secretary to the War Office the reasons for the continued delay in the publication of the balance sheets of the Navy and Army Canteen Board for 1920; and when the balance sheet may be expected?Viscount WOLMER
: Are we to take this delay as an indication of the business efficiency of the Navy and Army Canteen Board?Viscount WOLMER
: In how many cases have you got the men under lock and key?Viscount WOLMER
: Have you got the murderers?Viscount WOLMER
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say whether the responsible leaders of Sinn Fein have yet helped the Government to find a single murderer?Viscount WOLMER
49.  asked the Prime Minister whether the attention of the Economy Committee has been directed towards the swollen staff of His Majesty's Office of Works and the increase in the cost of that Department?Viscount WOLMER
: Is not my hon. and gallant Friend aware that a circular has been received by the depots of the institutes in Ireland instructing them to boycott British goods and to deal only in Irish goods, and is he not aware that a copy of this circular has been sent to the War Office?Viscount WOLMER
28.  asked the Financial Secretary to the War Office whether orders have been issued to Navy and Army and Air Force institutes in Ireland that in future only Irish goods are to be sold; and, if so, on what grounds this has been ordered?Viscount WOLMER
: Will the right hon. Gentleman give an undertaking to exclude murderers from that?Viscount WOLMER
: Why should it not he published at once?Viscount WOLMER
: When may the Report of this Committee be expected to be published?Viscount WOLMER
39.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer why it happened that three parcels of Beta Eucaine arrived from Germany on the s.s. "Oranje Nassau" on 4th November and that the importers of these parcels were not advised of their arrival until the 21st November; why, when they paid on 22nd November the duty demanded by His Majesty's Customs under the Safeguarding of Industries Act, they were still unable to obtain delivery of the parcels; whether he is aware that daily applications were made to the Customs parcels post department at Mount Pleasant, who were informed that the material contained in the parcels consisted of important local anæsthetics used in surgical operations and was urgently required by hospitals; why delivery was not obtained from His Majesty's Customs until the 8th December; and whether he proposes to take steps to obviate the continuance of such delays?Dr. MURRAY
: The parcels in question reached the Customs on the 15th November and the notice on arrival was sent to the addressees on the 18th. Duty was paid on the 22nd, but it is regretted that owing to the transfer of this parcel post work to more commodious premises which was then proceeding, a delay occurred which was unavoidable in the circumstances. This cause of delay will not recur, and the transfer will benefit importers by reason of the possibility of accelerating delivery which it will afford.Mr. YOUNG
: The importance of a step of this sort is no doubt fully recognised.Mr. YOUNG
40.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he is aware that, owing to the absence of technical knowledge of chemicals on the part of the Customs officials ordinarily concerned with the examination of goods arriving at the various ports throughout the country, it has become the practice of His Majesty's Customs to detain all parcels of chemicals and to refuse delivery to importers on the ground that inquiries are being made; that the consequent delay, even in the case of goods not dutiable, frequently amounts to weeks; and that it has become the practice of His Majesty's Customs to ignore any interim complaints which may be made by traders as to the great inconvenience that they are put to by the consequent hold-up of business; and whether he can devise some means whereby a decision may be given on the spot in any cases of this kind which involve only an ordinary working technical knowledge of the commodities in question?Dr. MURRAY
: In the case of chemicals entered as not liable to duty, as to which the examining Customs Officer is in doubt whether duty is not chargeable under Part I of the Safeguarding of Industries Act, it is necessary to submit a sample for expert opinion by the Government chemist, and this opinion is obtained with the least possible delay. But if the importer wishes to obtain immediate possession of the goods, it is always open to him to do so on deposit of an amount sufficient to cover the duty in the event of the goods being ultimately held to be liable. As decisions are given on various substances, the officers at the ports will become more experienced in deciding liability without the necessity of submitting samples, and the inconvenience complained of will diminish. I am not, however, prepared to incur the expense attendant on the appointment of expert advisers at the various ports.Mr. YOUNG
: Is it not a fact that if this kind of thing goes on there will be no drug in the market after this?Dr. MURRAY
: No, far from it. I have always regretted the delay which has been created by the congestion of parcels, and I have always referred to this measure of the transfer to more commodious premises as one which will in future obviate delay.Mr. YOUNG
: It is fully recognised that the period of the initiation of an Act necessarily causes inconveniences. Those inconveniences are being overcome.Mr. YOUNG
: Does not "remarkably well" mean that the goods are being kept from getting into this country?Dr. MURRAY
378: The sum of £14,056, collected under Part I of the Safeguarding of Industries Act up to the 28th October, represents actual receipts of duty and does not include the deposits to which the hon. Member refers. The deposit system is brought to the notice of importers in their own interests by the Customs in cases of doubtful liability in order that they may obtain immediate delivery of the goods if they so desire. Such deposits must naturally be sufficient to cover estimated full liability, but I am not aware of the actual case to which the hon. Member refers. The net amount of duty received in October cannot be stated, inasmuch as the cost of collection
378Mr. YOUNG
: I should require notice for a more careful analysis of the figures before I could answer that question, but speaking on the spur of the moment I should say not.Mr. YOUNG
382: I understand that the facts are substantially as stated. The hooks in question were pronounced on expert advice to be permanent magnets and, therefore, dutiable under the Schedule to the Safeguarding of Industries Act. The matter referred to in the last paragraph of the question is receiving attention, and I hope shortly to be able to authorise the exemption from Key Industries Duty of certain articles of the kind in question, so long as the
382Mr. YOUNG
: Any question about the interpretation of the Schedule must be addressed to the Board of Trade.Mr. YOUNG
"I hope shortly to be able to authorise the exemption from Key Industries duty of certain articles of the kind in question, so long as the exemption will not operate to defeat the substantial objects of the Act.": Possibly the hon. Member may deduce something from the latter portion of my answer—
"I hope shortly to be able to authorise the exemption from Key Industries duty of certain articles of the kind in question, so long as the exemption will not operate to defeat the substantial objects of the Act."Mr. YOUNG
: I believe the use of the deposit system is largely also specially applicable to the transition period. When the inconveniences have been overcome, probably importers will find that it is necessary to make less use of it.Mr. YOUNG
1.  asked the President of the Board of Trade how many requests for orders imposing a duty on manufactured goods under Part II of the Safeguarding of Industries Act have been received by him; if so, how many he has approved; and whether he will publish a list of these applications forthwith so as to give adequate opportunity to those who desire to oppose them to prepare evidence which they will submit to any committee of investigation that may be appointed?Major BARNES
6.  asked the President of the Board of Trade how many and what applications have been made for import duties to be levied under Part II of the Safeguarding of Industries Act; and when any opportunity will be given for other traders affected and the public generally to be heard in opposition to such applications?Mr. TREVELYAN THOMSON
24. ad valorem asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he is aware that on the 9th December a consignment of over 100 bags of washing soda crystals arrived at the east quay of the London Docks and was detained by His Majesty's Customs as being liable for duty under Part, I of the Safeguarding of Industries Act; that the importers sent special lorries to remove the goods, but were refused delivery by the Customs officials unless payment of a deposit to cover the ad valoremMajor BARNES
381: I am informed that these goods were not landed until the morning of Saturday the 10th instant, and that the two vans sent down on that day were allowed to take away full loads; the
381Mr. YOUNG
: If the hon. Member had followed my reply, he would have seen that there was no delay of any sort or kind.Mr. YOUNG
: The statement which was made by both the Prime Minister and myself the other day was that, in the case of each Dominion, the Dominion itself settled what the Dominion flag should be, and we proposed to follow that course in regard to the Irish case. For myself it seems to me that, in view of the acceptance of an agreement of friendship and amity, the spirit in which it works is of much more importance than the actual symbol.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I have nothing to add to the answers already given to similar questions addressed to my right hon. Friend and to myself.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Has the Prime Minister changed his policy with regard to the special privileges of dukes?Dr. MURRAY
: Conversations were begun this morning between representatives of the French and British Governments and will probably continue for the greater part of this week. I hope that, whilst my colleagues and I are taking part in these discussions, I shall not be pressed to make a statement on the subject.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN (Leader of the House)
: I hope that hon. Members will respond to the appeal I have made. There is great difficulty in answering questions with regard to matters which are at this moment the subject of conversations between foreign Ministers who are in this country and ourselves, but the attitude of His Majesty's Government in this matter is fairly well known to the House.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I am grateful to the hon. and gallant Member for his intentions, but if he would occasionally take my hints as to the way in which he can best carry them out, I should be even more grateful.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
29.  asked the Prime Minister whether a restoration in any form of the veto of the House of Lords has been considered by the Cabinet?Captain BENN
: The proposals of the Government will be submitted to Parliament in due course. I must decline to make any statement as to proceedings in the Cabinet.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Has it been suggested to the Cabinet, or are they considering, the restoration of the veto of the House of Lords?Captain BENN
: I must decline to make any statement as to the proceedings of the Cabinet.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Then the right hon. Gentleman is not in a position to pledge the Government not to restore the veto of the House of Lords?Captain BENN
: I decline to answer any questions as to proceedings in the Cabinet, and I am astonished that the hon. and gallant Gentleman, with his experience, should think it useful to put such questions.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: His Majesty's Government have no definite information to the effect that Georgia is in occupation of Russian troops. The rest of the question, therefore, does not arise.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: No doubt we could, but it would take time.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: Is the hon. Gentleman in a position to accept the assurances of any individual Member as to the wishes of the inhabitants of Georgia?Sir J. D. REES
: I understood that the hon. Member was going to ask me a Private Notice question on this subject.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I deny the allegation of my hon. Friend.Mr. HARMSWORTH
: I said that I had no definite information on this particular point.Mr. HARMSWORTH
locus standi400de jurede facto: His Majesty's Government accorded locus standi400de jurede factoMr. HARMSWORTH
26.  asked the Prime Minister when the Report of the Geddes Committee will be presented?Sir J. D. REES
42.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer if he proposes to issue in full the Report of the Departmental Committee on Expenditure presided over by the late Minister of Transport?Mr. A. T. DAVIES
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeCaptain BENN
: May I ask when the Cabinet will decide on this question?Captain TERRELL
: Will the Report be published before Parliament re-assembles?Captain BENN
: May I ask for an answer to my question as to when the Cabinet will consider this matter?Captain TERRELL
: Perhaps my hon. and gallant Friend will allow me to point out the simple fact that the Cabinet cannot consider the Report until it reaches them.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: May I ask why the Cabinet cannot consider this matter at once? Why must it be delayed?Captain TERRELL
: Would the hon. Gentleman tell me whether the Report will be published?Captain BENN
: The question on the Paper asks if he will state when the Report of the Geddes Committee will be presented? We have not had an answer to that. We want to know when it will be presented.Captain TERRELL
: As I have not seen the Report, which, as I have said, has not yet been presented to the Cabinet, I am unable to say how far any reports in the Press, which I have also not seen, are accurate.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I imagine by means of more or less intelligent anticipation.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I am not in favour of accepting either suggestion.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
35.  asked the Prime Minister whether His Majesty's Government will instruct its representative at the forthcoming meeting of the Council of the League of Nations to support the Belgian proposal for the protection of the non-Turkish elements in Asiatic Turkey?Mr. O'CONNOR
: No details of the Belgian proposal referred to by the hon. Member have been received from the League of Nations. I am not, therefore, in a position to indicate the Government's attitude regarding it.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I do not think a Committee of the kind suggested would be a suitable body for such an economic investigation as the hon. and gallant Member desires.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: No, Sir. No decision has been taken upon this matter.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I do not recognise the quotation.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: If the hon. Member will send it to me, I will refresh my memory. What I think I said was that this was a matter which would come under discussion between the rising of the House and its meeting next year.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
41.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, in view of the large amount of Inland Revenue stamping done in Middlesbrough, he can arrange for this work to be undertaken by a subordinate official at the Middlesbrough post office if the present stamp office should be closed at the end of the year, and in this way effect a considerable economy in present expenditure without seriously inconveniencing the general public?Mr. THOMSON
: The Board of Inland Revenue have recently explored, in consultation with the Post Office, the possibility of making an arrangement such as that suggested by the hon. Member. They have been unable so far to discover any practicable solution of the difficulties involved, but the matter will be further investigated.Mr. YOUNG
: The work of both these gentlemen is both in the country and in this House, and is similar to that which has always been executed by their predecessors.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
19.  asked the Home Secretary whether his attention has been drawn to a case last month at Ashby-de-la-Zouch county court where a motorist had caused serious injury to one of the public through negligent driving; and, if the local police did not institute proceedings in the matter, what action does he propose to take?Mr. T. THOMSON
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeCaptain BENN
: Is it proposed to compensate the shipbuilders for the two ships which have been abandoned, and then to enter into two new contracts because two new ships are required?Captain BENN
407: The right hon. Gentleman and the House are aware that, when we adjourned on Friday, the Government anticipated that we should be in full possession of the result of the discussion in Dublin by the time we met to-day, but it seems now possible at least, if not actually probable, that those dis-
407Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: In six days.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: As I stated, I anticipated a decision the next day by the representatives of Southern Ireland then gathered in Dublin. I do not think it is very consonant with our dignity that we should go on adjourning from day to day, waiting for a decision from the body across the channel. What that decision may be I have no greater means of knowing than any hon. Member of this House, nor have I any further information as to what is proceeding elsewhere. All I can say is that I think the most convenient course for the House is that we should now prorogue and not meet again before 31st January, unless it is necessary. Of course, that makes no difference to the convenience of those who do not propose to appear on the date to which the House is adjourned, but it makes a good deal of difference to officers of the House and some others who must attend if the House merely adjourns instead of being prorogued. On the other hand, if it should become necessary to meet before 31st January, Parliament can be summoned within six days of a Proclamation being issued. I think that that meets all that is necessary.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: There are two assumptions underlying the speech of my Noble Friend the Member for Hitchin (Lord R. Cecil), neither of which I venture to think is justified. The first is that Turks massacre Armenians and that Armenians do not massacre Turks. I do not know why, when a Turk is killed, it is regarded almost like the killing of beef or mutton, but when an Armenian is killed he is massacred like a martyr.Sir J. D. REES
426: I do not say it happens with equal frequency, because, of course, there are more Turks than there are Armenians, but given equal opportunities there is very little to choose between one side and the other. It is the assumption that there are not two sides to this question which is so exasperating and so provoking to our Mohammedan fellow subjects in India, and so dangerous from the point of view of their loyalty to the British connection. The
426Sir J. D. REES
ad hoc427ex hypothesi: Why, then, when the French leave Cilicia, is there all this protest? Why does my Noble Friend point out that the Armenians, all of whom ad hoc427ex hypothesiSir J. D. REES
428: My hon. Friend is never tired of lifting up his voice one day for Ireland—now no longer distressed Ireland—and another day for Armenia, still distressed and suffering Armenia. It has been suggested that His Highness the Aga Khan no longer represents the feeling of the Indian Mohammedans. I protest against that. The Aga Khan's is still the most powerful and the most
428Sir J. D. REES
429: If I rise to intervene, it is only because I do not wish to be thought discourteous by those who gave notice of this Motion, but they might otherwise think I was deliberately waiting with my eye on the clock for the time when all of us are to be sent into space. I find my views on this subject are not very well illustrated in the speeches which have been made on either side. I am not, I hope, lacking in sympathy with our Mohammedan fellow-subjects in India, either in what concerns their Government in the Indian Empire, or in their outlook on the world. On the other hand, I cannot think without something like horror and dismay of the abominable barbarities which have been practised in Armenia, and if I condemn Turkish rule in Armenia it is not because it is Mohammedan rule over Christian people, but because it is a barbarous and brutal rule, which would disgrace whatever Government in which it originated. I deprecate the tendency of my Noble Friend the Mover of the Motion to view his own country in such gloomy colours, and the tendency both of my Noble Friend and of the hon. Baronet the Member for East Nottingham (Sir J. D. Rees) to interpret as a pledge to some particular party who would have the right to call for its execution at any moment and in any circumstances, every statement of intention or of policy offered by a British Minister in either of the Houses of Parliament, or in speaking to a British audience. Take what was alluded to by my Noble Friend—the statament made by the British Government or by the Prime Minister as to the terms on which
429Mr. CHAMBERLAIN (Leader of the House)
: I do not profess to be quoting the exact words. My Noble Friend speaks of that as a pledge to the Armenian people in respect of what they had incurred in the War.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I am afraid I have not all the utterances of my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister so close to my hand as the Noble Lord, who, think, studies them merely in order to repudiate or condemn. I do, however, deprecate the argument that any Minister who stands at this Box, or speaks in another place to his own people merely to expound the views and intentions of His Majesty's Government, cannot do so without being pledged thereby, and without giving the right to some party or people outside this country to claim that these are pledges binding on the Government upon which they have a right to insist.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: I think the hon. Member has taken up all the remaining time.Mr. CHAMBERLAIN
: Has the right hon. Gentleman any estimate of the time within which he will get the total number of ex-service men employed up to the percentage recommended by this Committee?Captain LOSEBY
30.  asked the Prime Minister whether he can give a pledge that the Government will not commit this country to a further occupation of German territory, or the imposition of new sanctions for the Treaty, without first consulting Parliament in the matter?Captain W. BENN
20.  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department by what amount the cost of the special Department of Scotland Yard, drawn either from the Secret Service or any other Vote, is to be reduced in the next financial year; and precisely what modifications in the work of the Department are to be made, particularly whether its political character is to be abandoned?Captain WEDGWOOD BENN
: Will the right hon. Gentleman answer the last part of my question, as to whether the political character of this Department is to be abandoned?Captain BENN
: Has not the hon. Gentleman just said that he has no information that Russian troops are in occupation of Georgia?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Is it impossible for the Government to get any definite information from Georgia as to whether or not it is occupied by Russian troops?Colonel WEDGWOOD
31.  asked the Prime Minister whether, in any negotiations with Russia as to trade or recognition, he will press that Government to allow free self-government to the Republic of Georgia, which has been already recognised by ourselves and other Powers as a self-governing independent State, but is at present occupied by Russian troops against the wishes of the inhabitants?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Have the Government considered the possibility of buying the "Mutso" from Japan and proposing to pay them at some subsequent time big interest on the sum involved?Colonel WEDGWOOD
: Is the right hon. Gentleman himself in favour of being a creditor nation with other people working for you and your own people unemployed, or a debtor nation with your people working for someone else?Colonel WEDGWOOD
32.  asked the Prime Minister whether he will consider the desirability of setting up a Select Committee to consider the relative advantages or disadvantages of being a creditor or a debtor nation, and of inflating or deflating the currency, so that the minds of politicians and bankers may be rendered more clear as to the objects of financial legislation and administration?Colonel WEDGWOOD
9.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he has any report from America as to the case of persecution and expulsion of British coloured subjects from Miami, Florida, and the protection afforded or otherwise to British subjects there by the British Consul?Colonel WEDGWOOD
11.  asked the Minister of Labour how many unemployed men and women respectively are on the registers; how many of these are not receiving any form of insurance allowance; what is his estimate of the numbers of unemployed not on the registers; and how many persons are now employed on the various forms of relief works?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Can the hon. Member say how they have managed to get children's fishponds into key industries, and what possible use can that sort of article be in wartime in this country?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
375: Are we to understand from that reply that
375Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeLieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: The Prime Minister said so.Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
406: May I ask whether the ships were not originally sent to the Clyde because of
406Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that I am only trying to strengthen his hands?Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: May I, in spite of the request of the right hon. Gentleman, respectfully ask if he can give us some assurance with regard to the second part of my question, as to whether any further military occupation will be undertaken before this House is consulted in accordance with what I believe to be the constitutional practice?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
27. 396 asked the Prime Minister whether he can make any further statement regarding the request of the German Government for a delay in the payments of the
396Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
21. 393 asked the Home Secretary whether his attention has been drawn to a recent case
393Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY
: Since I put the question on the Paper, has not the right hon. Gentleman looked into the matter a little more closely and made further inquiries? Does he think it is proper for any individual to be able to go to a nominal Government Department and see these secret documents?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Will the right hon. Gentleman let it be known at the London Press Club, and in Fleet Street, that anyone can go to his Department and get any information they like?Lieut. - Commander KENWORTHY
: Will the hon. Gentleman see that this matter receives special attention, because when local anæsthetics are held up in this way general anæsthetics, which involve much more danger, will have to be used, and it will add to the terrors of the dentist's chair.Dr. D. MURRAY
: Will the right hon. Gentleman give an answer to the last part of the question, whether this House has any power over a decision come to in the Irish Free State on the question of the flag?Mr. HARMSWORTH
36.  asked the Prime Minister whether the Government of the Irish Free State will have the power of choice between flying the Sinn Fein flag and the Union Jack, the national flag of both Great Britain and the Dominions; and whether, if they have that power, this House will have any power over the decision that is come to?Mr. ESMOND HARMSWORTH
: No. They were sent to the firm which offered the lowest tender.Mr. AMERY
: I have been asked to reply to this question. The capital ship contracts have been suspended. No further action is being taken pending the result of the Washington Conference.Mr. AMERY
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. As regards the second part, I am afraid it would not be practicable to construct one of the suggested new ships at Devon-port.Mr. AMERY
405: No decision has yet been reached pending the final conclusion of the Washington
405The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the ADMIRALTY (Mr. Amery)
: In view of the immense importance of what has been described as a symbol, can my right hon. Friend say whether this question was ever brought up at all during the negotiations, and why it does not find some part in the Agreement?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
15.  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether the Royal Irish Constabulary mechanic-constables being dismissed at Gormanstown and other places are now receiving a month's notice before dismissal or equivalent compensation; and whether they are being given boat and railway warrants to their homes?Lieut. - Colonel ARCHER -SHEE
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that when these men were enlisted about a year ago they were told that they would be allowed to re-engage at the end of 12 months for another 12 months' service? Is he aware that that definite offer has been broken, as they were then told that they would be on monthly contracts, and even that has been reduced now to one week's notice? Does not the right hon. Gentleman think that to turn these men out at a week's notice is treating them very badly, in view of the fact that if any railway company treated its employés like that there would be a general strike, and quite right too?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: Does the right hon. Gentleman deny that until I asked him questions about these men they were being sent home without railway warrants?Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: There were 19 sent off in that way.Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
389: Does he deny that these men were definitely offered the chance of taking on again for another 12 months at the end of their 12
389Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE
: It is quite unnecessary for me to remind the Government how enormously important is the reputation of this country on, if I may so put it to satisfy my hon. Friend the Member for East Nottingham, business grounds. The whole British Empire is built on good faith. It is built on the knowledge that other nations have had that up till now when we said a thing we would carry out our promise even at great inconvenience to ourselves. I trust that the Government may be able to reassure the House, and I venture to tell them that they would have been in no parliamentary danger whatever in a matter of this kind. I am certain that they will not be actuated merely by that, but that they will consider the immense responsibility that rests upon them, not only to this House and in reference to the present body of the electors, but because they are entrusted with the control and government of the British Empire, and what they do will affect not only us but also those who come after.Lord R. CECIL
423422421420"Arabia, Armenia, Mesopotamia, Syria and Palestine are, in our judgment, entitled to a recognition of their separate national conditions…It would be impossible to restore to their former sovereignty the territories to which I have already referred.""That this House deeply sympathises with the sufferings of the Christian population in Asia Minor, and urges the Government to take every possible means to assist them.": I beg to move,
423422421420"Arabia, Armenia, Mesopotamia, Syria and Palestine are, in our judgment, entitled to a recognition of their separate national conditions…It would be impossible to restore to their former sovereignty the territories to which I have already referred.""That this House deeply sympathises with the sufferings of the Christian population in Asia Minor, and urges the Government to take every possible means to assist them."Lord ROBERT CECIL
: There is another phrase in that same speech which secured Constantinople to the Turks, and that was publicly stated by the Prime Minister to be a pledge on which we could not go back. What was a pledge to the Turks should equally be a pledge to the Armenians.Lord R. CECIL
: May I have an answer to my question?Major WOOD
: Does not the hon. Member think that the collection of these small sums is not worth the great trouble and inconvenience that is inflicted on traders?Major M. WOOD
: Does not the hon. Gentleman think this deposit system necessitates a great deal more capital for business than before?Major MACKENZIE WOOD
10.  asked the Minister of Labour whether certain railway companies in England and Scotland have so far declined to apply for certificates of exception from the provisions of the Unemployment Insurance Acts; whether, as a result, permanent railway servants of certain grades employed by such companies are, on discharge, disqualified from receiving benefit either from the Unemployment Insurance Fund, although they have contributed to it, or from the funds of the railway companies; and if he proposes to take any steps to remove the hardship complained of in the case of such men?Major WILLIAM MURRAY
: Would not the figures that the hon. Gentleman has show that the increased cost of the administration of the Customs since the passing of the Act has much more than swallowed up this alleged advantage of £44,000?Mr. LYLE-SAMUEL
43.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer what proportion of the sum of £14,056 collected under the Safeguarding of Industries Act represents deposits which traders have had to pay in order to secure their goods pending a settlement of dispute as to the precise amount of duty leviable; whether the deposit system has been encouraged by His Majesty's Customs officials; whether the deposits paid have in many cases proved to be far in excess of the legitimate duty when obtained; whether a case has arisen in which a deposit of over £650 was demanded in respect of goods, of which it is alleged the duty should not properly exceed £10; whether he can inform the House with regard to the October figures; what is the approximate net amount, independent of the cost of collection, which the Exchequer is actually to secure; and can he state the total amount received from 1st October to 10th December?Mr. LYLE-SAMUEL
7 and 8. 374 asked the President of the Board of Trade (1) whether, in the case of disputes arising under Clause 1 (4) of the Safeguarding of Industries Act as to whether dutiable ingredients have or have not lost their identity in compound articles, his Department is taking the view that the Clause is not explicit as to the referee appointed by the Lord Chancellor being the proper authority to whom such disputes should be referred; and whether he is prepared to explain to the House the grounds on which the attitude is being adopted by his Department, seeing that traders whose interests are concerned with the interpretation of the Clause can at present get no satisfaction from the Department as to the course of procedure they should adopt to secure immediate arbitration;
374Mr. LYLE-SAMUEL
"But I assure my hon. Friends that we cannot dissociate ourselves from the responsibility that is cast upon us by our pledges in respect of the Armenians."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 29th April, 1920; col. 1520, Vol. 128.]: The Prime Minister in the House of Commons on the 29th April, 1920, said:
"But I assure my hon. Friends that we cannot dissociate ourselves from the responsibility that is cast upon us by our pledges in respect of the Armenians."—[OFFICIAL REPORT, 29th April, 1920; col. 1520, Vol. 128.]Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: I must repudiate that entirely. I said nothing of the sort. I said our pledges remained, whatever the action of the French might be.Mr. WILLIAMS
425"Towards the end of last September, Field-Marshal Lord Allenby reported that on our withdrawal from Cilicia and Syria it was feared that a large number of Armenians, at Urfa, Marash, Aintab, Aleppo, etc., might start streaming south in the wake of our troops, when it would be impossible to look after them. He suggested that by agreement with the French these Armenians, particularly those whom we were protecting at Aleppo (to whom I presume you chiefly refer) should be repatriated to Cilicia, a country which would be under French protection, and in which Armenians already formed a large proportion of the population.""It may help you if I explain the circumstances."424: I beg to second the Motion.425"Towards the end of last September, Field-Marshal Lord Allenby reported that on our withdrawal from Cilicia and Syria it was feared that a large number of Armenians, at Urfa, Marash, Aintab, Aleppo, etc., might start streaming south in the wake of our troops, when it would be impossible to look after them. He suggested that by agreement with the French these Armenians, particularly those whom we were protecting at Aleppo (to whom I presume you chiefly refer) should be repatriated to Cilicia, a country which would be under French protection, and in which Armenians already formed a large proportion of the population.""It may help you if I explain the circumstances."424Mr. A. WILLIAMS
399: Will the hon. Gentleman really consider getting more prompt information on these matters, and does he not recognise that it is some-
399Mr. A. WILLIAMS
: I am not aware of that. What I am aware of is that the work is now proceeding. The men made very strong representations that they hoped some way might be found by which the work could be undertaken, that the only way in which it could be done was by contract, and I have no reason to question that the proper rate of wages is being paid by the contractor.Mr. NEAL
386: As I only received notice of this question a short time ago I have not been able to prepare a formal answer, but I think that I can give the information which my hon. Friend desires. I am not aware of any exceptional feeling upon the question raised by the hon. Member in reference to road making, most of which is being undertaken by contract. I am sorry that some of the unemployed should interpret the position of the Government as
386The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the MINISTRY of TRANSPORT (Mr. Neal)
: I would refer the hon. and gallant Member to the answer which I returned to his question on 26th October. His Majesty's Ambassador at Washington was instructed to inquire into the matter, but his Report has not yet been received.The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Mr. Cecil Harmsworth)
5. 373 asked the President of the Board of Trade whether, although the Safeguarding of Industries Act only
373Mr. C. WHITE
4.  asked the President of the Board of Trade if he is aware that Sir William Ashley, who is now presiding over the Committee appointed to consider an application from certain manufacturers for the imposition of a duty of 33⅓ per cent. on certain imported glassware, has been identified with a movement for securing the imposition of a tariff on imports into this country and was associated with the late Mr. Joseph Chamberlain in the Tariff Reform movement; and will he see that in future no person shall be appointed to such office who has taken a prominent part in advocating either Free Trade or Tariff Reform, so as to establish confidence in the tribunal?Mr. C. WHITE
: Is it not a fact that the principal work of one of these gentlemen is in the country and not in this House, and should he be paid his £2,000 a year for that?Mr. WHITE
: I have it here.Mr. WHITE
: Does the right hon. Gentleman remember that on 23rd June he promised that the situation should be reviewed, and said that was an agreement which should not be perpetuated, and if that is so, could there be a more fitting opportunity, in the interest of economy, to take some action in this matter?Mr. WHITE
37.  asked the Lord Privy Seal whether, in the interests of economy, it has been decided that, as was the case before the War, the salary of only one Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury shall be borne upon the Votes?Mr. C. WHITE
404: I learn on inquiry that the evidence in this case was not such as to justify criminal proceedings against
404Mr. SHORTT
: People can go there and ask for information, and if it is proper to be given they will get it. If it is not proper information to be given they will not get it. There is no question of dealing with the trade unions.Mr. SH0RTT
: There is no question of "nominal" in this matter; the Department is under the Home Office. There was no question of seeing documents. Information was given to the Duke which was available to any pressman.Mr. SHORTT
: I gave no permission in this case, and have no knowledge of the matter beyond what appeared in the newspaper reports, but I do not gather from those reports that any information was given that should not have been given, or that any information was given to the Duke that was not available for other Press contributors.Mr. SH0RTT
: I answered that on Friday. It is not to be abandoned.Mr. SHORTT
: The arrangements for the re-organisation of the Department are not yet complete, and I am unable to say what precise modifications will be finally adopted or by what amount, if any, the cost will be reduced.The SECRETARY of STATE for the HOME DEPARTMENT (Mr. Shortt)
: They cannot get any information they like, but they know perfectly well, for they are doing it every day, that they can get such information as is proper to be given.Mr. SHORTT
: The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. The facts of ex-Inspector Syme's case have been fully ascertained, and require no further investigation. There is no sufficient reason for re-opening the case.Mr. SHORTT
: The hon. Member has not given a correct description of my right hon. Friend's action. What he did was to offer re-instatement to the man as an act of mercy, and not as a matter of re-opening the case. As far as the effect on this man's health is concerned, the sentence he is serving was the sentence of the Court, and if he chooses to starve himself I cannot help it.Mr. SHORTT
: I do not think there is any occasion for me to refer to the Law Officers on this question. The scales of pay for sergeants and constables in all forces are now fixed by the Police Regulations, and cannot be altered without amendment of the Regulations. The scales of pay for the higher ranks in every force are, by the Regulations, subject to the approval of the Secretary of State, and cannot be altered without the like approval. The rates of pension are governed by the Police Pensions Act of last Session, and cannot be altered without legislation.Mr. SHORTT
: The local authorities, as my answer states, have no discretion in this case. The question put down to-day is a very different one from that which was put down on Friday.Mr. SH0RTT
: No, Sir, nothing of the kind. The question put down on Friday was a totally different question altogether from this, and it was answered fully and completely.Mr. SH0RTT
: I understood, of course, that the supplementary question had to do with the question on the Paper.Mr. SHORTT
: It is impossible to give any further answer. The Report has not even been received by the Members of the Cabinet.Mr. YOUNG
: I am afraid I am unable to inform the hon. and gallant Member.Mr. YOUNG
: I have been asked to reply. The question of the publication of the Committee's Report will be a matter for the consideration and decision of the Cabinet.The FINANCIAL SECRETARY to the TREASURY (Mr. Hilton Young)
38.  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether his attention has been called to a consignment of toys recently imported into this country, which included some children's games called fishponds, which goods, on critical examination, were discovered by the Customs officials to contain small hooks attached to little pieces of rod of small value; whether the importer of these goods was asked to declare the value of the small pieces of wire in question on the ground that the wire was dutiable under the Safeguarding of Industries Act as being in the category of ignition magnetos and permanent magnetos; whether he is aware that these goods were only released, on depositing the sum of 2s., to the importer after considerable delay; and whether he is prepared to give instructions which will prevent such inconvenience and attendant expenses for rent and other charges being imposed in future upon importers of such trifles?Mr. BRIANT
3.  asked the President of the Board of Trade whether his attention has been called to the fact that the British flint-glass manufacturers recently made an application for the imposition of a duty on certain types of imported glassware which are used to a considerable extent by British Silver and electro-plate manufacturers in Birmingham and Sheffield; whether his Department referred it to a committee of inquiry; whether, on the assembling of that committee to consider the application, the flint-glass manufacturers requested to be allowed to withdraw the application; and whether, in view of the fact that the announcement of the terms of reference of the committee in question involved the opponents of the application in considerable expense and inconvenience during the Christmas season in preparing evidence in support of their contentions, he will undertake that in future such applications shall not be entertained except on the understanding that they will, in fact, be proceeded with before any committee?Mr. BRIANT
: Is it not a fact that these complaints are being greatly exaggerated, and that the Act is being administered remarkably well?Mr. G. TERRELL
: Yes, Sir; I think the House may understand that they are in course of being taken.Sir G. HEWART
: Yes, the steps which were referred to in that answer.Sir G. HEWART
: I have been asked to reply. There is nothing to add to the answer given on the 10th November last to question put by my hon. and learned Friend.The ATTORNEY - GENERAL (Sir Gordon Hewart)
: Steps are being taken, as I explained in the answer referred to.Sir G. HEWART
: The hon. and gallant Member has made several allegations, and I deny the accuracy of every one of them. I am doing my best to treat these gallant men as generously as I can within the law, and within the terms of their contract.Sir H. GREENWOOD
388: Some of these men have left on termina-
388The CHIEF SECRETARY for IRELAND (Colonel Sir Hamar Greenwood)
: Yes, I do deny it.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: I have not heard that they have been handicapped in the way referred to by my hon. and gallant Friend. On the contrary, I have information to the very opposite effect.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Yes, and I am profoundly sorry the mistake occurred. I appreciate my hon. and gallant Friend's interest in the matter.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: A few were sent off through an inadvertence, but that mistake has been corrected.Sir H. GREENWOOD
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that I drew the attention of the Minister of Health to the fact that in Sheffield there were miners engaged by local contractors for road work who during the War received a special rate of pay from the Army for making roads, and at present they are subject to the low rate of pay as probationers at this work? Further, may I ask the Minister of Health if he did not promise to find special work for such cases, and will he not carry out that undertaking?Mr. LAWSON
: On that point of Order. Is it not the case that the Geddes Committee was set up during the last Session of Parliament, that we have been called together for a special Session of Parliament, and that, as financial business is the first business of a new Session, the House is entitled to know whether the Cabinet expect the Report shortly, and, if so, what steps will be taken?Mr. HOGGE
: May I ask the Leader of the House if he can say when he, as Leader of the House, expects the Report to be considered?Mr. HOGGE
: On that point of Order. I understand from your ruling that it is left to the Leader of the House to expect or not to expect a Report from a Financial Committee presided over by a Member of his Cabinet.Mr. HOGGE
: Apart from that, the decision of the Government is to prorogue until 31st January. They will not wait to prorogue until after Christmas. I wish to ask whether it would not be the same if we adjourned until after Christmas, so that, at any rate, this Parliament, which has a very large share in the hopes for the success of this Conference, should be enabled to meet and discuss any events which may eventuate this week. What I am thinking of is that we understood from the Government that Dail Eireann might come to a decision to-day. Apparently it is going to take something like a week to come to a decision, and that decision may be favourable or unfavourable to the settlement. Similarly, those of us who are not in the inner ring read this morning that those in the Northern Parliament in Ulster are apparently making some objection to the Boundaries Commission. All these things may have some possible result on the settlement. Does not the Leader of the House feel that the mother Parliament, the governing Parliament, ought to be in a position, if necessary, to be called at once to discuss anything that might arise, and would it not be better, perhaps, if my right hon. Friend adjourns the House until after Christmas and until Dail Eireann has come to a decision? We could then be called together when that decision had been reached, and, if necesary, then prorogue. I think that that would be more consonant with the procedure and dignity of this House.Mr. HOGGE
: Does that mean that Parliament can be assembled in six days?Mr. HOGGE
380: What is the position of those who opposed this application?
380Mr. KILEY
: When the importers are called upon to deposit 33⅓ per cent. of the value of the goods, how can they sell those goods without knowing what they have to pay?Mr. KILEY
: That is quite wrong.Mr. KILEY
: If the matter had been settled, can the hon. Member say why there was delay?Mr. KILEY
: As they did not do so, what redress have the opponents got after having gone to the expense of preparing their case, bringing witnesses from Sheffield and Birmingham to London, and then being told it is not proposed to hold the inquiry?Mr. KILEY
: That was not made public. Counsel and witnesses were present to commence the proceedings.Mr. KILEY
: Is the hon. Member aware that through the delay in the collection of this 2s. the goods have been either stolen or lost in the docks?Mr. KILEY
: Has not the hon. Gentleman repeatedly denied that there has been any delay in the clearance of parcels due to the collection of duties under the Safeguarding of Industries Act?Mr. KILEY
2. 372 asked the President of the Board of Trade whether he is aware that the Czecho-Slovak Government have recently completed a commercial treaty which gives certain preferences to goods of French manufacture imported into their country; whether they have made proposals to the British Government for a similar treaty, but owing to objection raised by his Department to the effect that any such treaty might interfere with the working of the Safeguarding of Industries Act the suggested treaty has not been concluded; and, if this is so, whether
372Mr. KILEY
: It was put plainly enough, at all events.Sir J. REMNANT
: Is not the question which I have put on the Paper to-day exactly the same question to which, on Friday, I asked for an answer, yes or no?.Sir J. REMNANT
: Is not my present question exactly the same as the question I asked on Friday, when I asked for an answer yes or no, and got neither the one nor the other?Sir J. REMNANT
: Have the local authorities, therefore, no power of their own discretion to alter these scales of pay and pension?Sir J. REMNANT
23. 395 asked the Home Secretary if he will refer to the Law Officers of the Crown the question of whether local police authorities have the
395Sir JAMES REMNANT
: May I ask the Leader of the House whether any information can be given as to the further course of business to-day and as to the duration of the sitting of this House?Mr. CLYNES
: Has the hon. Member observed how the figures for unemployment have gone up since this Act took effect?Mr. CLYNES
: Is not the hon. Gentleman aware that the minimum rate of wages in the Erith district is considerably above the rates proposed to be paid by the contractor, and can there not be some method of straightening out the tangle between the rates paid by this contractor and the proper rates?Mr. MILLS
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. MILLS
: Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that the present Secretary of State for the Colonies, during his occupation of the office of Home Secretary, so far recognised the justice of this case as to offer this man re-instatement to one degree below the rank occupied by him at the time of the inquiry? Having regard to the fact that this man is determined, even at the cost of his life, to secure an inquiry, will the right hon. Gentleman not, even at this late stage, do something to meet his claim?Mr. MILLS
22.  asked the Home Secretary if ex-Inspector Syme has again been arrested and released after hunger striking in order to bring his case before the Government; and, in view of the repeated demands for an inquiry, will he grant an inquiry?Mr. MILLS
: Were they not sent to the Clyde because of the splendid work which is done there in building ships better and cheaper?Mr. TAYLOR
: The hon. and gallant Member must not go into a question of propaganda.Mr. SPEAKER
: The hon. and gallant Member should give notice of that question.Mr. SPEAKER
: That is dependent on a meeting which has not yet taken place.Mr. SPEAKER
: That is a purely hypothetical question.Mr. SPEAKER
: It is one of our Rules at Question Time that we do not admit hypothetical questions. This is one of that nature.Mr. SPEAKER
: That question was answered last week.Mr. SPEAKER
: This is not the time for giving information.Mr. SPEAKER
End of the Fourth Session (opened, Wednesday, 14th December, 1921) of the Thirty-first Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in the twelfth year of the Reign of His Majesty King George the FifthThen a Commission for proroguing the Parliament was read in the House of Lords.I pray that the blessing of almighty God may rest upon, your decisions.I have received with deep satisfaction the assurance of your approval of the Articles of the Irish Agreement and of your readiness to give effect to its provisions.My Lords and Members of the House of Commons,standing in the Clerk's place at the Table (End of the Fourth Session (opened, Wednesday, 14th December, 1921) of the Thirty-first Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in the twelfth year of the Reign of His Majesty King George the FifthThen a Commission for proroguing the Parliament was read in the House of Lords.I pray that the blessing of almighty God may rest upon, your decisions.I have received with deep satisfaction the assurance of your approval of the Articles of the Irish Agreement and of your readiness to give effect to its provisions.My Lords and Members of the House of Commons,standing in the Clerk's place at the TableMr. SPEAKER
: Is the information which this particular Department is prepared to give to individuals information only dealing with what this Department alleges to be the activities of trade union organisations and labour political organisers, or is any individual at liberty to go to this Department and get information as to any political organisation in the country?Mr. NEIL MACLEAN
390: In amplification of the reply which I gave to the Noble Lord on this subject on Friday last, I should like to state that, as I understand, certain difficulties were at one time experienced by the Navy, Army and Air Force Institutes in London in obtaining English goods requisite for the maintenance of their Irish supply. This was due to the attempted boycott referred to by the hon. Member for Kensington, South, and the consequent unwillingness on the part of British manufacturers to take the risks involved in the carriage of their goods to Ireland. This action had the effect of temporarily
390The UNDER-SECRETARY of STATE for WAR (Lieut.-Colonel Sir R. Sanders)
: I am not aware of any letter that contained the statement suggested in the first part of my hon. Friend's question.Sir R. SANDERS
: I received a letter from my Noble Friend this morning which, if he will allow me to say so, I think was unnecessarily, and I hope unintentionally, offensive, calling my attention to this letter which I had never seen before. The answer I gave on Friday was a perfectly accurate answer to the question on the Paper.Sir R. SANDERS
: My right hon. Friend informs me that protection was given at the earliest possible moment, and that it has been completely successful.Sir R. SANDERS
: Will the right hon. Gentleman make inquiries and bring pressure to bear to see that these men are not handicapped in this way after having served their country?Mr. GWYNNE
408: May I remind the Leader of the House that as late as Friday last he said he thought it would be undesirable to prorogue until the
408Mr. GWYNNE
: I will do so.Mr. O'CONNOR
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeMr. O'CONNOR
: As a question of which I have given Private Notice is relevant to that which has just been asked by my hon. Friend, might I supplement his question? Does the Under-Secretary seriously say that he has no information that Russian troops are in occupation of Georgia and are carrying out very drastic acts of repression there, having sent innumerable people to gaol and having deported many others? If the hon. Gentleman has any doubt upon these facts, let me assure him that I was told no later than the day before yesterday by the President of the Constituent Assembly—[HON. MEMBERS: "Order, order!"]—I am giving my hon. Friend some useful information.Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: Thousands of Armenians have been killed for every Turk.Mr. T. P. O'CONNOR
: It has not butchered Mohammedans.Mr. O'CONNOR
: Save in two cases, all the principal railway companies in Great Britain have given or confirmed the necessary declaration as to the permanent nature of the employment of the railway servants in question, and certificates of exception have been or are about to be issued. I am still hopeful that the two companies referred to may find it possible to come into line with the others, but as long as the question of exception is outstanding, that is, until it has been decided whether the employés are or are not insurable, it is clearly not possible to pay benefit. As soon as the question of exception is definitely settled the contributions paid will either be available for benefit or will be refunded in accordance with any certificate issued.The MINISTER of LABOUR (Dr. Macnamara)
384: On 9th December there were registered as wholly unemployed 1,412,372 men and 321,346 women. These figures compare with 1,549,307 men and 477,627 women registered as wholly unemployed at 24th June. As regards men and women registered as working short-time, the figures for 9th December
384Dr. MACNAMARA
: On 1st December the strength of the Regular Army, including all ranks, but exclusive of the British Army in India, was about 10,000 less than the numbers voted.The SECRETARY of STATE for WAR (Sir Laming Worthington-Evans)
: The local government of Greater London is at present the subject of an Inquiry by a Royal Commission, and I cannot make any statement in anticipation of their recommendations. The Outer London authorities will have ample opportunity of presenting their case to the Commission, which I have no doubt they will do with their usual energy and ability.Sir A. MOND
: I should like to express the sympathy of the Government with the City in its misfortune. I have already sent officials of the Ministry to confer with the Lord Mayor and the Corporation, and every measure which is possible will be taken to render assistance in dealing with the situation.Sir A. MOND
: Special instructions were given on that subject, that where men are competent to do the work for which they are engaged they will obtain standard pay. The question is a question of fact, and it will be for the borough engineer and the local authorities to say whether or not the men are fully qualified to do their work.The MINISTER of HEALTH (Sir Alfred Mond)
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeSir C. KINLOCH-COOKE
: To recognise the independence of Armenia.Mr. BARTLEY DENNISS
by Private Notice (by Private NoticeSir H. BRITTAIN
 asked the Minister of Health whether he can make any statement which will reassure the minds of ratepayers in the Home Counties that undue encouragement is not being given to the London County Council to annex a large area of the surrounding districts for the purpose of forming a still Greater London?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: Does the Treasury look with a favourable eye on this Report?Sir H. BRITTAIN
: It is not the policy of the Ministry to employ women in preference to ex-service men. On the contrary, I am at present adjusting my staff in accordance with the recommendation in paragraph 19 of the Third Report of the Lytton Committee, to which I would refer my Noble Friend. The answer to the second part of the question is 38, of whom three are ex-service officers. No promotions to either of these grades have been made since the dates mentioned.The MINISTER of PENSIONS (Mr. Macpherson)
: My proportion of ex-service men up to the present is 97.8 of all the men employed. I hope by the 31st March to have fully completed the recommendations of the Committee.Mr. MACPHERSON
: I hope by the 31st March.Mr. MACPHERSON
: Can the Leader of the House inform us how it comes about that such voluminous reports as to the contents of this Report have appeared in the Press, and whether those reports are accurate?Mr. HURD
: Can the right hon. Gentleman inform the House as to the means by which these voluminous reports have appeared in the public Press, even before the Report itself has been presented to the Cabinet?Mr. HURD
: Is the hon. Gentlemen aware that the same claim can be put forward very much more strongly for the Port of Barrow-in-Furness?Sir BURTON CHADWICK
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say that persons in Ireland who desire to fly the Union Jack will not be persecuted, as at present?Sir W. DAVISON
: Have any steps been taken since the answer referred to was given?Sir W. DAVISON
: Are any steps being taken by the Government in this matter, or is the matter being allowed to lie fallow?Sir W. DAVISON
: Is the House to understand that the steps referred to in that, answer are at present being taken?Sir W. DAVISON
28.  asked the Prime Minister whether the Government are now in a position to announce the steps they intend to take for the trial of German war criminals in accordance with the Treaty of Versailles?Sir W. DAVISON (for SIR J. BUTCHER)
16.  asked the Secretary of State for War whether the Navy, Army, and Air Force Institutes Board have at any time directed the Navy, Army, and Air Force canteens in Ireland to join the Sinn Fein boycott of British goods; whether this boycott is still in force; and, if not still in force, when it was terminated and under what circumstances?Sir W. DAVISON
: Will the Secretary for War say why protection was not given to these institutes to enable them to retail British goods which they had in hand? Is he aware that this letter in my hand was sent by his Parliamentary Private Secretary, on his instructions, to me stating that, owing to the lack of military protection, these goods could not be kept in Ireland, and that unless such military protection was forthcoming no British goods were to be supplied?Sir. W. DAVISON
: I have the letter in my hand.Sir W. DAVISON
: Is the hon. Gentleman aware that I have in my hand a letter from the War Office admitting that these institutes did join the Sinn Fein boycott, and not as stated by him because the manufacturers were unwilling to risk sending goods to Ireland, but because as stated in this letter, in view of the Sinn Fein ban, the warehouses and shops of the institutes in Ireland would be destroyed unless military protection could be had, and such military protection had been refused?Sir W. DAVISON
: The hon. Member must leave that to the discretion of the Committee.Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
: I have explained that by an arrangement between the manufacturers referred to and the trade, the inquiry has been postponed—not withdrawn.Sir W. MITCHELL - THOMSON
379: Including formal complaints and inquiries
379Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
: I have just said it is of course open to the Committee if they desire to hear evidence on this portion of their reference from other manufacturers.Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
: The answer to the first three parts of the question is in the affirmative, except that the application has not, according to my information, been withdrawn, but postponed for a period by arrangement between the British Flint Glass Manufacturers' Association and the Birmingham and Sheffield manufacturers referred to. It is, of course, open to the Committee to hear evidence on this portion of their reference from other manufacturers should they so desire. No circumstances have arisen which suggest the desirability of a rule of the kind suggested by the hon. Member.Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
: The Commercial Convention of 4th November, 1920, gives no preferential treatment to French goods in the matter of customs duties in Czecho-Slovakia, but it includes provisions for the grant of licences for the importation into Czecho-Slovakia of certain classes of French goods and for the exportation of certain goods from Czecho-Slovakia into France. Negotiations with Czecho-Slovakia are in progress, and my right hon. Friend will be happy to consider any information bearing on the matter which may be placed before him.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY to the BOARD of TRADE (Sir W. Mitchell-Thomson)
: I entirely dissent from the view that any person who took the side indicated by the hon. Member in the fiscal controversy before the War, or anybody who took the opposite side, is not to be trusted to conduct impartially the investigations required under the Safeguarding of Industries Act; and, as the question has been raised, my right hon. Friend desires me to take this opportunity of publicly thanking and expressing his confidence in all those who in response to his request are placing their knowledge and experience at the disposal of the Government.Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
: All the members of the Committees referred to had been appointed to the panel before their selection to serve on the Committees. No member of the panel has been or will be appointed as the nominee or representative of any particular interest. The constitution of a Committee is determined solely with the object of securing an impartial and competent body to report upon the facts of the case referred to them.Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
: The hon. Member is under a misapprehension. No list of articles to be taken as comprised within the general heading of lamp-blown ware has been issued by the Board of Trade. Complaints of the nature of those to which the hon. Member refers accordingly appear to come under Section 11 of the Safeguarding of Industries Act and it is open to complainants to approach the Customs with a view to their complaints being referred to a referee to be appointed in accordance with that Section. The vigilance committee of the London Chamber of Commerce have been so informed by the Board. I am not aware of any complaint in this particular connection as to loss of identity, and the question as to the interpretation of Section 1 (4) of the Act does not arise.Sir W. MITCHELL - THOMSON
: No, Sir. I do not think my hon. and gallant Friend should understand that.Sir W. MITCHELL-THOMSON
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say why he denied the existence of this document in reply to my question last Friday?Viscount WOLMER
391: Is it not a fact that the hon. Gentleman denied that the orders had ever been given at all, and now I have called his attention to the
391Viscount WOLMER
18.  asked the Under-Secretary of State for War, whether he has any further statement to make in regard to orders having been issued to Navy and Army and Air Force Institutes in Ireland that in future only Irish goods are to be sold and in particular with reference to an Order issued from the Irish Area Office, Lord Edward Street, Dublin, dated 31st May, 1921, and 3rd June, 1921, forbidding the future purchase of English-manufactured soaps, candles, biscuits, boot polish, and other commodities; and whether he will give an explanation of the matter?Viscount WOLMER
: Can the right hon. Gentleman say how many ex-service men he proposes to take into employment in the adjustment which he has fixed?Viscount WOLMER
13.  asked the Minister of Pensions the number of women employed in the Ministry in preference to ex-service men and the number of permanent civil servants serving as deputy principal clerks or principal clerks; and how many of them are ex-service men, and how many of the remainder have received promotion since 4th August, 1921?Viscount WOLMER
17.  asked the Secretary of State for War the number of recruits needed to bring the Army up to strength?Viscount WOLMER
: My Lords, may I ask the noble Earl, Lord Crawford, if he is able to give us any further information about the negotiations in the coal dispute?THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
2: My Lords, a further meeting took place this morning between the Mining Association of Great Britain and the Miners' Federation of Great Britain. The Prime Minister was unavoidably prevented from attending, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer presided in his place. He was accompanied by the President of the Board of Trade, the Minister of Labour and the Secretary for Mines. A long letter was placed before the Conference, dated April 24, signed by Mr. Evan Williams, the Chairman of the Mining Association. This letter covered proposals of the Mining Association for a durable scheme, together with suggestions for a temporary arrangement during the transition period. I have the document before me; it is very long and very technical. It has been issued to the Press. If your
2THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: I am much obliged to the noble Earl.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, I beg to move, "That the time for depositing Petitions praying to be heard against the said Bills be extended to Wednesday the 4th of May next." The reason for this Motion is that your Lordships have decided that these Bills shall be referred to a Joint Committee. It is, therefore, obviously desirable to extend the time for depositing Petitions in order that any petitioners who have not been heard, and who may have intended to petition, should not lose their right of doing so.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE)
: My Lords, I do not wish to pursue this discussion, but could the noble Earl who has just spoken inform us on what figure for the price of imported wheat the possible liability of £1,500,000 is estimated?THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
8
8THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD):
: The noble Earl, Lord Ancaster, stated that it was conceivable that if the harvests in other parts of the world were good the Government, in fulfilling its obligation to the farmers, might have to pay out as much as £1,500,000 sterling. The question I put to the noble Earl was whether he could say on what figure of price for imported wheat that estimate—which I quite understand did not profess to be an accurate one—was based.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
plus: Of course, the estimate is based on the average price c.i.f. of imported wheat, and that price is ascertained by taking the ruling market figures of two months for imported wheat plusTHE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Certainly.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
9: We, therefore, are at the mercy of foreign markets. In view of the fact that at the period of our maximum production during the war we never used more than 24 per cent. of our own breadstuffs, I am afraid I cannot answer the question of the noble Marquess except in these very general terms. With your Lordships' permission I should like to express my horror and amazement at the estimate referred to by the noble Marquess, Lord Lincolnshire, that the subsidy to home-grown wheat would be £40,000,000. It could not be anything comparable with that figure, or with a fraction of it. I do not want to trouble your Lordships on this matter, because it arises out of the Corn Production Act, and in the Bill which is now before the House there is no reference whatever to guaranteed prices. The Corn Production Act which governs this matter is already passed and the discussion, therefore, is hardly relevant to the Bill which is now before us.9THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
The Earl of Onslow.11: My Lords, I have now, in accordance with the provisions of Section 8, subsection 3, of the Ministry of Health Act, 1919, to move to resolve, "That this House approves the Ministry of Health (Registration and Elections, Transfer of Powers) Draft Order, 1921." It is proposed to transfer under the Ministry of Health Act certain powers ill regard to the registration of elections from the Ministry of Health to the Home Office. The Ministry, as your Lordships know, inherited from the Local Government Board certain duties under the Representation of the People Act, 1918, but it is thought unsuitable that the Minister- of Health should be responsible for duties so entirely unrelated to matters of health, and accordingly it is proposed to transfer them to the Home Office.The Earl of Onslow.11THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, the Question which the noble Viscount has put to me is as regards Section '5 of the Housing (Additional Powers) Act, 1919. That section was introduced because at the time very great difficulty was experienced in obtaining labour for housing schemes, and because that difficulty was due to a large extent to the competition of other forms of labour. The noble Viscount has referred to picture palaces, and it is true that there was considerable dissatisfaction in the country that the construction of such luxury buildings, as they were called, should be proceeding while housing schemes were held up for lack of labour. The power which was given in this Act of prohibiting luxury buildings has no doubt assisted in easing the shortage of skilled labour for housing schemes.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: No.VISCOUNT BURNHAM
15: That is the view of His Majesty's Government. I should like to say, and it is right that it
15THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: May I interrupt the noble Earl? I understand that the dilution scheme is dependent upon the abolition of the restrictions; otherwise, it will not work.VISCOUNT BURNHAM
: The noble Viscount referred in his speech to the Housing Bill which is now before Parliament, and suggested that an opportunity might present itself in the discussion of that Bill for considering the future of these restrictions. I should like to assure the noble Viscount that if an Amendment be proposed to it to abrogate the restrictions from the date of the passing of the new Act, it would receive the most sympathetic consideration from the Ministry of Health. I think that will answer the noble Viscount's Question.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Would the noble Earl be in a position to make a statement in the near future as to the position of the dilution policy?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I am afraid I shall have to ask the noble Marquess to give me notice of that Question.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Is it alleged that the Crown Forces used dum-dum bullets?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
Lord Parmoor20: On this occasion certainly, and it is a matter which ought to be thoroughly inquired into. I entirely feel the weight of that. I felt it so strongly that, at great inconvenience, I made special inquiries this morning. It is not alleged of the Army; and it is a most disgraceful thing to connect the Army with these outrages by the Auxiliaries. My view of the action of the Army in Ireland. is all to its honour and credit. It has preserved its discipline under most trying circumstances and has done its work in an admirable manner. But what do you say of these Black and Tans, out of uniform, rushing about on a Sunday afternoon in this way, firing hundreds of shots at random, bringing a machine-gun into an hotel and wrecking it; and of the fact that afterwards amongst the cartridges picked up is one that undoubtedly contained a dum-dum bullet? I have no hesitation in making that statement. Where else could it have come from?Lord Parmoor20LORD PARMOOR
2322The Times: My Lords, I should like to have the privilege of associating myself with the Motion that has just been made by the noble Lord. I shall follow his example in being very brief. I think the whole House, the whole country, and, indeed, everyone who has any regard for the fair fame of this land, will be under a debt of gratitude to him for bringing the matter before this Chamber. I hope that the request he has made for a public Inquiry—not merely an official Inquiry—will be met, so that we shall at least have one case, such as these incidents at the Castleconnell hotel disclose, upon which there will be no doubt. There cannot be any doubt whatever in the mind of any person who fairly approaches the consideration of this question. The noble Lord who has just sat down re leered to the answer of the Prime Minister to the letter from the heads of the various Churches of this country. I think that the Prune Minister himself admitted the whole case of those who claims that the most scandalous atrocities and the most atrocious crimes are being committed every day and every hour in Ireland in the name of law.2322The TimesLORD MORRIS
2524indicia: My Lords, I have not, I think, once interfered in any discussion that has taken place in your Lordships' House touching the action of the Crown Forces, who are popularly spoken of as Black and Tans. But there are some observations which I should wish very much to make with regard to the statement of the noble and learned Lord, Lord Parmoor, and the letters which he has read. Lord Parmoor has disclaimed, as I disclaim, any desire whatsoever to condone, in the demand for an Inquiry which is made, the acts of the extremists in Ireland. Nor do I for one moment think that this is a case which should be regarded in any way as a mere matter of politics, or as a mere matter of an attack on the Government. I should like to explain why I think so. If the statement of the noble and learned Lord's brother be accurate—and it is very difficult to suggest that it can be in the main anything but absolutely accurate—the Government, I presume, would be the very first to disclaim any sympathy with, or any condonation of, those acts.2524indiciaLORD SHANDON
: My Lords, with regard to the statement made on the authority of the noble and learned Lord, Lord Parmoor, that expansive bullets are being used by the Crown Forces, it seems to me that the proper course to adopt is that the noble and learned Lord's relative should. give evidence on the subject and prove to the Court of Inquiry what he has already proved to the satisfaction of Lord Parmoor himself—that the bullet in question was a bullet accidentally dropped by a member of the Crown Forces. I do not prejudge the case. Lord Parmoor's inference may, perhaps, be correct. But it is a matter on which some evidence on the other side may possibly be. given by the Crown Forces, who, doubtless, will bitterly resent any such suggestion if the allegation can be disproved. An Inquiry is going on. Lord Parmoor says he does not want an official Inquiry. What does he want—an unofficial Inquiry?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: A public Inquiry.LORD BRAYE
: I will deal with one. point at a time. I do not know what Lord Parmoor means by an unofficial Inquiry.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: If the noble Earl will pardon me, I did not say "unofficial." We all know what an official Inquiry means. it means an Inquiry by the people who are said to be implicated at the present moment.LORD PARMOOR
: An Inquiry is going on already. Two or three of your Lordships who have spoken are obviously unacquainted with that fact. Lord Par-moor does not know that an Inquiry is taking place. Lord Morris asks: Why are the facts being withheld from us? Does Lord Morris, before he makes speeches of that character, take the trouble to study the public Press?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Certainly.LORD MORRIS
: Does he know that an Inquiry has been going on for three days?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Yes.LORD MORRIS
27: Does he know that it is a public Inquiry; that the public is admitted; that the Court is
27THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: When I want an opinion I will ask for it.LORD MORRIS
: I say that a public Inquiry is going on, and that it has been going on for days. It is at this moment adjourned. It appears that one of the witnesses, a constable, was seriously wounded, and it is considered necessary that this man's evidence should be given. In fact, it is said that the case cannot be fully examined until that man is well enough to state what he saw. The Court, after these sittings, accordingly is adjourned.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: What is the nature of the Inquiry? Is it an Inquiry by Court-Martial?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
28: Yes, it is; I am coining to that. The Court at the moment is adjourned, but it is hoped, I believe, that this man's health may sufficiently improve for him to be able to give evidence before many days or, at any rate, a few weeks are past. Then the opportunity will present itself to those who know facts about this case to present them in the ordinary way to this Court. So far as publicity is concerned, therefore, Lord Parmoor's case is completely met. Whatever the character of the Court or its constitution, no greater publicity could be given than is at the present moment available through the newspapers, whose representatives attend and make long reports.28THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
29: My Lords, your Lordships will have listened to the very official reply which the noble Earl opposite has given, and some of your Lordships, I think, may have. hoped for a little more. The noble and learned Lord who made this Motion spoke with deep feeling, aroused, no doubt, by the fact that some near relations of his own obviously underwent serious danger during the commission of this outrage. If we were disposed to retaliate upon the charges which have been brought against us and those who agree with us, from time to time—the charges, I mean, that unless when reprisals are under consideration we devote at least half our speeches to denunciation of the crimes which have produced those reprisals, we are supposed to be in seine sympathy with the crimes—if we were disposed to retaliate on those lines we might say here that the noble Earl has heard a story of a most shocking outrage,
29THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
sub judice: May I intervene? The case is sub judiceTHE EARL OF CRAWFORD
3130: I thought the noble Earl would say something of that kind, but I am afraid that your Lordships will not think that the mere fact that this particular outrage is the subject of inquiry would have made it improper for the noble Earl to express some regret at the outrage undoubtedly committed by somebody, and apparently, by general admission, by men in the service of the Crown, upon the relatives of the noble Lord, quite apart from the scene of murder and destruction of which they were the unwilling witnesses.3130THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
sub judice32: My Lords, I had no intention of taking part in the debate this afternoon. Your Lordships are well aware—I am afraid that I have troubled you very often on this
sub judice32THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I am sorry to say that is a point upon which I did not consult the Irish Office, and I am quite unable to give a reply. I should like to inform noble Lords that I have to represent several Departments in this House, and that I am the head of a Department of my own, and also Chairman of the Wheat Commission that supplies the daily bread of this country and other countries. I am rather hard pressed, and the point did not occur to me when I invited the opinion of the Irish Office. Perhaps Lord Morris will be a little tolerant in consequence.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I beg your pardon. You have no right to refer to me as intolerant.LORD MORRIS
: If the noble Marquess will put down a Question this day week, and will give Notice, I will answer it.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I will put it down for this day week.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
353433: My Lords, the difficulty under which the noble Earl labours is one that we have all realised for a long time past. This House suffers from the great disadvantage that, when-
353433LORD BUCKMASTER
: My Lords, I rise to say a few words only on this Question. As the debate has assumed a general form, and matters of general complaint have been made by the noble and learned Lord who spoke last, it may not be improper that I should make sonic general observations in reply. Lord Buckmaster says, as he has said before in this House, that these Inquiries have been barren of result. The noble and learned Lord is entirely wrong. If he proposes to make an indictment so sweeping and so general in character he should really be at some pains to acquaint himself more in detail with the actual working and the results of the Inquiries which have been held. Has he the slightest idea of the numbers of the Forces who have been subjected to severe punishment?THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
: The noble and learned Lord will forgive me. A Court-Martial is one thing, an Inquiry is another. The Inquiries I mentioned were Inquiries which, so far as I know, were barren of result.LORD BUCKMASTER
36: If the noble and learned Lord means that a Court of Inquiry did not inflict punishment and, therefore, that no punishment has been inflicted as the result of a Court of Inquiry, the discovery is wholly unworthy of his acuteness. As the result of a Court of Inquiry many grave disciplinary steps have been taken, some of which should have attracted the attention of the noble and learned Lord by their publicity in the Press, and from the observations I myself have made in this House. Lord Buckmaster, however, has travelled from the immediate subject of this Inquiry, though that was grave enough to justify debate, into three or four other cases. I cannot think that is a convenient course. He mentioned three cases in particular as the subject of complaint to-day. The noble Earl was not
36THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: The noble and learned Lord knows that I have done so.LORD BUCKMASTER
: And he ought to know that in relation to two of the cases I made an answer which, to many of us, appeared to be satisfactory, though not, as I am aware, to the noble and learned Lord, who speaks as if no answer had ever been attempted.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I did not say that.LORD BUCKMASTER
: The noble and learned Lord says he did not say so. 1 quite agree; but the whole tone and implication of his reference to those incidents was that they were unexplained and inexplicable charges gravely involving the good faith of the Forces.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I really must apologise to the House, but I cannot allow the noble and learned Lord to misunderstand me in this way. I said that in those three cases that I quoted Inquiries had taken place, and in not one, so far as we could see, had any result followed.LORD BUCKMASTER
: The noble and learned Lord must not forget that the explanation may be that in more than one of them, as was certainly the case in several other Inquiries, the Forces of the Crown were found, and rightly found, to be completely blameless.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I quoted those three cases. Were they blameless in any of those cases?LORD BUCKMASTER
4039esprit de corps3837: The noble and learned Lord has quoted three cases without informing any Minister in this House that it was his intention to do so. I cannot retain all these cases in my memory, but I declare categorically that in the cases which the noble and learned Lord selected on the last occasion on which he addressed the House on this matter there was more than one in which, after the
4039esprit de corps3837THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, I wish to say but one or two words in answer, because the noble Earl stated that he does not propose that the Government should divide against my Motion. I understand from what the Lord Chancellor has said that the Court which is holding this investigation is a Court of Inquiry, and not a Court-Martial. Of course, if it is a Court-Martial it is a public Court, and the sentence will be promulgated publicly. If it is a Court of Inquiry the sentence will not be publicly promulgated. That is the distinction between the two. I do not know whether the noble Earl opposite, or the Lord Chancellor, could give the information whether this Inquiry which has been referred to is a Court-Martial or a Court of Inquiry, but I understand that, whether it is either the one or the other technically, the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack will be prepared to recommend the publication of the sentence.LORD PARMOOR
: All I can say is that the wish expressed by the noble and learned Lord shall be considered by those who have responsibility in this matter. The noble and learned Lord himself is far too experienced in weighty legal matters not to be well aware that the actual presence of a witness is more than ever desirable in eases where the allegations are of a very grave character, and I understand from what has been repeated to me of the noble and learned Lord's speech that some of those allegations, for instance, in relation to the dum-dum bullets, are allegations of which a very grave view might be taken. I only mention that in order that the noble and learned Lord may have in his mind that the consideration is one that requires care.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, I am not sure that there may not have been some slight misunderstanding as to the attitude of Lord Cave. I did not gather that he was substantially dissenting from this proposal, but that, in one or two respects, he would desire to see it qualified. I will speak to my noble and learned friend again.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: The noble and learned Viscount, who was in the House until a minute ago, authorised me to say, as he could not remain in the House, that he entirely concurs in my Motion.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: As the noble Lord has said that, he must equally allow me to say that the noble and learned Viscount did not appear to me to accept this proposal without some qualification, and it is not easy to see how he could at the same time entirely concur in the noble Lord's Motion.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
6fons et origoss5: My Lords, I desire to ask one or two questions of the noble Earl, Lord Ancaster, on the Bill itself. On the Second Reading Lord Buckmaster said that it is of high consequence that some statement should be made as to the real purpose that the Bill is intended to accomplish. The Bill of 1920 was strongly opposed by many members of your Lordships' House, but it is now law and all law-abiding citizens are anxious to obey the law. I venture to think that we ought to know what it is. Up to the present moment what we have discovered is what it is not.6fons et origoss5THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
Viscount Peel: My Lords, I beg leave to introduce the Education (Consolidation) Bill and to move that it be now read a first time.Viscount PeelVISCOUNT PEEL
7: My Lords, I will do my best to answer the questions of which the noble. Marquess gave me private notice two days ago, though I may say that the noble Marquess has somewhat strayed front his letter in which he requested information on the points which he has mentioned. I naturally believed from his letter that his questions would relate almost entirely to the prices of cereals, and how those prices would be affected by the Act of 1920—that is to say, to the cereals which are at the present moment growing in the ground and will be harvested next August or September. In the course of his speech he has dwelt on the prices for wheat and oats of the harvest of last year. I did not know that the noble Marquess would raise the question of the prices of last year's harvest, but I was present in your Lordships' House about three weeks ago, and I recollect the noble Earl the First Commissioner of Works giving a most lucid and lengthy explanation of the whole of the arrangements by which the farmers were to receive their money for wheat which they sold under a certain price. The noble Earl had charge of that question, and, if I may say so, dealt with it very fully and very freely on that, occasion. I do not think the noble Marquess informed the noble Earl that he intended again to raise this question. However, I am quite able to answer part of it—namely, that this 95s. for wheat. which was spoken about on that occasion was a maximum price. I think that is perfectly clear to everybody.7THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion which stands in my name, namely, "That a Committee of four Lords be appointed to join with a Committee of the House of Commons to consider the said Bills, as mentioned in the said Message, and that the said Committee be named by the Committee of Selection."THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE)
535251504948TabletGuardian, Church TimesTabletTablet" I am delighted to see that theTablet47status" Given those conditions, so far as the Anglican Church is concerned have every reason to believe that it would be entirely acceptable to us that Easter Sunday should be a fixed Sunday and not a variable one That there would be some men with ecclesiastical and archaeological interests who might object to it I do not doubt, but I think they are negligible in number, and not the most authoritative in status" We should expect concurrence on the part of the Roman Catholic authorities in any settlement that may be made, and failing that concurrence we should have to consider our position."" We believe that there are gains in the association which we shall be sorry to lose, and we think it is most important that that should not be ignored in any settlement if a new settlement be made."" I may say at once so far as the ecclesiastics with whom I have been in conference are concerned, that there is no objection at all on their part to the change suggested provided certain conditions are satisfied. I am speaking now not on behalf of the Greek Church but on behalf of the Anglican Church in England, America, Australia, India and elsewhere. We all feel. strongly that the holidays should not be divorced from the period of ecclesiastical celebrations."" No one is blind to the inconvenience of the changes (and apparently unmeaning changes from year to year) in the date of Easter, and the necessity of looking into ecclesiastical books in order to find out on what date Easter will fall in the following year."46: My Lords, in moving the. Second Reading of this Bill I venture to draw your Lordships' attention, in the first place, to a debate which took place in this House on July 21 last. On that occasion I moved a 'Motion to the effect that His Majesty's, Government be requested to summon a Conference at the earliest possible opportunity to consider the advisability of the establishment of a fixed date for the celebration of Easter and the reform of the Calendar. A very interesting debate took place, in which my noble friend, Lord Onslow, represented the Government. The answer received from him to the request that the Government should summon a Conference was a sympathetic negative.535251504948TabletGuardian, Church TimesTabletTablet" I am delighted to see that theTablet47status" Given those conditions, so far as the Anglican Church is concerned have every reason to believe that it would be entirely acceptable to us that Easter Sunday should be a fixed Sunday and not a variable one That there would be some men with ecclesiastical and archaeological interests who might object to it I do not doubt, but I think they are negligible in number, and not the most authoritative in status" We should expect concurrence on the part of the Roman Catholic authorities in any settlement that may be made, and failing that concurrence we should have to consider our position."" We believe that there are gains in the association which we shall be sorry to lose, and we think it is most important that that should not be ignored in any settlement if a new settlement be made."" I may say at once so far as the ecclesiastics with whom I have been in conference are concerned, that there is no objection at all on their part to the change suggested provided certain conditions are satisfied. I am speaking now not on behalf of the Greek Church but on behalf of the Anglican Church in England, America, Australia, India and elsewhere. We all feel. strongly that the holidays should not be divorced from the period of ecclesiastical celebrations."" No one is blind to the inconvenience of the changes (and apparently unmeaning changes from year to year) in the date of Easter, and the necessity of looking into ecclesiastical books in order to find out on what date Easter will fall in the following year."46LORD DESBOROLIGH
605958" rests with the civil Governments rather than with the ecclesiastical authorities. Without speaking in any way officially I have reason to believe that the attitude of the Holy See is one of willingness to sanction the proposed change, provided there be a practically unanimous request to that effect from the principal Governments of the world. I do not think that there is any likelihood of the Holy See taking any initiative in the matter."" Our position with regard to the fixed Easter may be described Os billows. There are no strung ecclesiastical reasons for making such a. change, and in England our Bishops and people are by no means unanimous in desiring it. It is understood that there are grave civil reasons, affecting especially schools and certain kinds of business, which would render change desirable. The initiative therefore—"locum tenens5756fiat5554: My Lords, I am sure I carry the whole House with me in thanking the noble Lord for the speech which he has just delivered. He has given evidence of the care that he has bestowed upon this subject, and of the perseverance with which he again and again returns to a task in which I think he has received quite unfair discouragement, or lack of adequate encouragement. He has also given evidence of a power of exposition in an exceedingly technical, and rather learned and far-off controversy, and in a series of calculations on which I congratulate him most heartily. I suppose most of your Lordships have had the experience, common to myself and others, of haying at times in early youth, when one's attention was not as closely directed as it ought to be to what is happening in church, devoted some little time to a study of these Tables, but I do not think any of us, without the exposition which the noble Lord has given to us to-night, would have found it so
605958" rests with the civil Governments rather than with the ecclesiastical authorities. Without speaking in any way officially I have reason to believe that the attitude of the Holy See is one of willingness to sanction the proposed change, provided there be a practically unanimous request to that effect from the principal Governments of the world. I do not think that there is any likelihood of the Holy See taking any initiative in the matter."" Our position with regard to the fixed Easter may be described Os billows. There are no strung ecclesiastical reasons for making such a. change, and in England our Bishops and people are by no means unanimous in desiring it. It is understood that there are grave civil reasons, affecting especially schools and certain kinds of business, which would render change desirable. The initiative therefore—"locum tenens5756fiat5554His Grace said
636261: my Lords, since the last time when this question was raised by my noble friend, Lord Desborough, in your Lordships' House, considerable progress has been made in familiarising the public with the reform which the noble Lord's Bill advocates. We have heard this
636261THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
64: My Lords, I am afraid that neither my noble friend behind me nor the most rev. Primate opposite will be filled with especial gratitude for the substance of the reply of the noble Earl. I think it can hardly be disputed that it amounts to something like a further shelving of the whole question, so far as His Majesty's Government is concerned. I do not quite comprehend what it is that the noble Earl expects that either my noble friend and the Chambers of Commerce, or the most rev. Primate, in conjunction with the authorities of the sister Churches, has further to do. My noble friend has, with his accustomed industry and force, collected a vast number of opinions from all quarters, and, in the main, as I understand, they are entirely favourable to the proposition. The most rev. Primate has informed us that, so far as the great Church of Rome is concerned, there is at any rate no obstacle to be expected, and, what is even more striking, that the Eastern Church, working as they do by a different calendar altogether, are prepared on this particular point to join with the other ecclesiastical authorities in fixing the date of Easter.64THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, I represent a wide community scattered all over the British Empire and I cannot consult them, but I should be willing to take the advice given to me by my noble friend, Lord Crewe, and, without prejudice, and not saying I will never do anything more, I consent to this debate being adjourned.LORD DESBOROUGH
65: My Lords, I am not sure that your Lordships quite understand the procedure that is proposed. The actual Question before your Lordships is the Amendment of the most rev. Primate in substitution of the Motion for the Second Reading of the Bill. My noble friend, Lord Desborough, has just said that lie would agree to the adjournment of the debate. I am not sure whether he means to move a specific Motion that the debate be now adjourned. For my own part, if that was the wish of the House, I should be quite willing to support the adjournment, but, failing that, I should
65THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
66: My Lords, personally I am a very strong
66THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL CRAWFORD)
: It is an inquiry, not propaganda.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: There is a great difference between the two. So long as that is clear I have no doubt that Lord Onslow would be very happy to review the position, in conjunction with the Home Secretary and with the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Under those conditions, speaking as a private member of the House, I do not think an adjournment of the debate would injure the prospects of the Bill If it is understood that the Government is not expected to take an active part in promoting tile measure until it is clear that it is one which commands general assent I, on behalf of the Government, would agree to the adjournment of the debate.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Does the noble Earl mean the adjournment of the debate, passing neither the Resolution nor the Second Reading of the Bill?THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
67: The adjournment of the debate. The noble, Marquess suggested that the question now before your Lordships should be adjourned — namely, the. Amendment moved by the
67THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: That is entirely satisfactory to me.THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
: I beg to move that the debate be now adjourned.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
71: My Lords, the Question which my noble friend has put to me falls into two parts. The first regards the questionnaire and the second concerns the Advisory Committee. In reply to the first part, I can inform him that His Majesty's Government have received the questionnaires circulated by the International Labour Office at Geneva, including those that he has mentioned, and another one concerning the weekly rest-day which I do not think he mentioned, but I have it here if he cares to see it. I should explain quite clearly— because what the noble Lord has said goes to show that there may be some misapprehension on this point— that the responsibility for the form of these questionnaires rests entirely with the International Labour Office. The questionnaires are issued lo the various Governments of States which are members of the League of Nations and of the International Labour Organisation with a view to ascertaining from them information from which the International Labour Office can submit considered reports and proposals or draft recommendations to the International Labour Conference, the next meeting of which is fixed for October of this year.71THE. EARL OF ONSLOW
: Do I understand that the British representatives have any part in issuing these questionnaires?LORD ASKWITH
: These questionnaires are issued by the International Labour Office I could not answer the question whether any British representative has been concerned in drafting them. The matter is entirely in the hands of the International Labour Office, and not of the British Government.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, I submit myself humbly to His Majesty's Royal will and pleasure, and if in the discharge of my duties, and in the maintenance of the rights and privileges of the Commons House of Parliament, I should inadvertently fall into error, I pray that the blame may be imputed to me alone, and not to His Majesty's faithful Commons.MR. SPEAKER
: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a third time.LORD BUCKMASTER
: It was not unanimous when it was read a second time.LORD BUCKMASTER
: There was a small minority, I think, but very small.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
80: I will make that correction, my Lords; I was certainly informed it was read a second time without a Division. The minority is still unmoved, and is still profoundly convinced, and I say, as one of that minority, that on the lowest ground alone, apart from Scriptural injunction or Divine teaching, the desertion clause of the Bill is, in my belief and I think in the belief of other noble Lords, incapable of being safeguarded against collusion such as may easily make divorce for desertion only less easy than divorce from mere incompatibility or by consent. I do not know whether any noble Lord will say that if this Amendment is carried to-day the labour which was given to this Bill in its previous stages and in bringing it to the stage we have reached to-day will be lost. In case that argument should be advanced I hasten to say that the labour is already wasted and made of no effect. In its present form the Bill has no chance in another place of any facilities which might be forthcoming in favour of non-controversial reliefs and reforms which are so generally desired.80LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
But not a Papist.""Jew, Turk or Atheist may enter hereipso facto84sine die.nisi83a mensa et thoroin toto8281: My Lords, for one brief moment I desire to call attention to the dates of the various Divorce Bills which have been presented for your Lordships' consideration from time to time. No Bill that I can recollect, no measure of any kind, has attracted so much attention and such long and earnest consideration in your Lordships' House as these Divorce Bills, except, possibly, the Deceased Wife's Sister Bill which used to come up year after year with'monotonous iteration. The substance of all these Divorce Bills is very much the same. Details may vary, but the main substance is to facilitate measures for divorce and to place it within the reach of those who are debarred, either by poverty or by distance of habitation, from entering the London Courts.But not a Papist.""Jew, Turk or Atheist may enter hereipso facto84sine die.nisi83a mensa et thoroin toto8281LORD BRAYE
85: My Lords, I desire to offer a few observations at this stage, because I am anxious to make it clear that, whilst most of my colleagues on the Bench of Bishops will feel it their duty to vote against the Third Reading of this Bill, we have no wish to invoke a general discussion of particular Amendments which have changed the character of the measure. The Third Reading is not, I think, the occasion for developing the question in its controversial aspect. Nothing could have been simpler or more clear than the statement of Lord Stuart of Wortley as to the position in which we stand who are now forced to oppose the Bill.85THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
: Hear, hear.LORD BUCKMASTER
" The existence of some form or some degree of mutual arrangement in the majority of cases for divorce in the United States may be taken for granted, and the plea of desertion renders that. collusion comparatively simple."86: He has rested the argument for the insertion of this clause making desertion a ground for divorce mainly upon the hard cases with which we are all familiar. I admit them as much as anybody, although I think that they are sometimes a great deal misunderstood. The hardest cases probably arise from instances of
" The existence of some form or some degree of mutual arrangement in the majority of cases for divorce in the United States may be taken for granted, and the plea of desertion renders that. collusion comparatively simple."86THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
92ad nauseam91"The Conference affirms as our Lord's principle and standard of marriage a life-long and indissoluble union, for better for worse, of one man with one woman, to the exclusion of all others, on either side, and calls on all Christian people to maintain and bear witness to this standard."9089" Any married person may apply to the High Court to dissolve his or her marriage on the ground that since the celebration thereof the other party thereto has deserted the applicant for a period of at least three years."8887: My Lords, it has been pointed out by Lord Stuart of Wortley that our debate on this Bill is likely to lead to no practical result. Nevertheless, I venture to think that the debates in this House will not be labour wasted. They ought to have a considerable educative effect on the public opinion of the country, and when legislation is seriously attempted again, that legislation will be undertaken with a better chance of being sound and wise. Before the Bill leaves this House I think it important that a voice from these benches should repudiate explicitly and decisively the notion that
92ad nauseam91"The Conference affirms as our Lord's principle and standard of marriage a life-long and indissoluble union, for better for worse, of one man with one woman, to the exclusion of all others, on either side, and calls on all Christian people to maintain and bear witness to this standard."9089" Any married person may apply to the High Court to dissolve his or her marriage on the ground that since the celebration thereof the other party thereto has deserted the applicant for a period of at least three years."8887THE LORD BISHOP OF DURHAM
: My Lords, I do not propose to stand for any length of time between your Lordships and the Division, but I should not like the Bishop of Durham's speech to pass wholly unanswered by those lay Peers who hold a very different view from him. On the great question involved I am afraid there is no room for compromise between the views I hold and the views of Lord Buckmaster and the Bishop of Durham. Your Lordships have shown very distinctly by your previous vote that you agree, in the main, with the view of Lord Buckmaster. But that does not absolve us from the duty of registering our protest whenever the occasion arises, and of putting on record, however briefly, the reasons which move us to such strong convictions in this matter.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: The opinion was freely expressed by those divines that a fair interpretation of our Saviour's words does not preclude divorce for other reasons.THE LORD BISHOP OF DURHAM
94: I will come to that point presently, but the fact is exactly as I have stated. What the right rev. Prelate has said is that his interpretation of our Lord's meaning is different from that which most plain people put upon it. His second point was an attempt to diminish the importance of the evidence of the opinion of the Anglican Church which can be derived from the Resolutions of the Lambeth Conference. Now, I was present when the most rev. Primate dealt with this matter, and he was very careful, as lie always is, to say that the Resolutions of the Lambeth Conference, of course, were not in any sense binding on this House; that he did not quote them as in any way meaning to derogate from the freedom of judgment of your Lordships, but that he did think it his duty, as Primate of England, to tell your Lordships what was the judgment on this most important subject of time Bishops assembled from every part of the British Dominions, and from the United States of America., and other parts of the earth on this subject.94THE EARL OF SELBORNE
98Non tali auxilio, nee defensoribus istis.979695: My Lords, there is no room for further words in this debate. Time industry of the noble Lord who moved that the Third Reading should be postponed, and the zeal and devotion of the noble Lords who support him, have been quite unable to produce the evolution of a single new idea or to vary the construction of a single novel phrase. All you can say is said, and it remains with your Lordships, for the last time, to act. I should be content without further words to leave the matter in your hands, but for the fact that one or two things have been said to which, I think, some slight reply would not be out of place. The noble Lord whose Amendment we are considering was kind
98Non tali auxilio, nee defensoribus istis.979695LORD BUCKMASTER
"The Bill provides that any man or woman who cares to leave his or her spouse can, whether there be reason for the desertion or no, obtain a. divorce at the end of three years."99" This Bill would appear to be drawn up with such legal cunning that the public, whom it
99: My Lords, I am not going to intervene in this debate. The noble and learned Lord has referred to a circular, and he has said that lie thinks some reference ought to be made to it by those who are in some measure responsible for producing it. As I am the President of the Marriage Defence Council, in whose name the circular to which he refers was issued, I think I ought, in a few words, to make some statement. There have been two circulars against which complaints have been made in your Lordships' House. One was issued on behalf of the Marriage Defence Council about four weeks ago, at the time when Lord Gorell introduced this Bill; or, at least, at the time of the Second Reading of the Bill. It was a mass of inaccuracies, I admit, and was accordingly immediately repudiated by Lord Charnwood, who informed Lord Gorell that it was not authorised by the Defence Council and authorised him to say so in the House. Lord Gorell expressed his thanks to Lord Charnwood, and I was, therefore, a little surprised when, on the Committee stage, Lord Gorell said that, although the circular had been disowned, he had seen no repudiation of it. I should think that if those responsible for the policy of the Marriage Defence Council disown the circular, and say that they had not authorised it, but on the contrary that it was against their express desires, that is the most effective repudiation you can possibly have."The Bill provides that any man or woman who cares to leave his or her spouse can, whether there be reason for the desertion or no, obtain a. divorce at the end of three years."99" This Bill would appear to be drawn up with such legal cunning that the public, whom it
99THE DUKE. OF NORTHUMBERLAND
: Oh dear no! I am a member of no association.LORD BUCKMASTER
: I beg the noble and learned Lord's pardon. There are, however, a number of your Lordships who are members of the rival association, and I should have to ask them to admit that the whole of their propaganda was illegitimate.THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND
: Your Lordships will permit me to express my gratitude to the noble Duke for his kind expressions towards me, and to say that it was not for the purpose of getting any expression from the noble Duke with regard to my personal position that I brought the matter forward. I still think that the publication of the circular went beyond the limit of fair comment.LORD BUOKMASTER
: Copies of three Amendments have been handed to me. As your Lordships' practice is very severe with reference to Amendments at this stage, I think I ought to state that I have satisfied myself that all these Amendments are consequential and none of them substantial.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: May I say one word about them, and at the same time express my gratitude to the right rev. Prelate, the Bishop of Norwich, on whose suggestion they are brought forward? The Amendment of Clause 3 is simply to provide that the constitution of an absolute defence to any divorce shall be so arranged that it may apply properly to desertion as well as to divorce, and the same thing is provided for later on page 3, line 2.LORD BUCKMASTER
: My Lords, I am sure your Lordships will agree to these Amendments, but, of course, it is not right that we should derogate from our practice of not agreeing at this stage, except in very grave and exceptional circumstances, to Amendments without Notice, unless they are purely drafting and consequential Amendments.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: That is so in this case.LORD BUCKMASTER
: All the Amendments deal with the same subject, and I hope your Lordships will agree to Ii y putting them together.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
106105rerbatim104: My Lords, this Bill may be described as a Bill to consolidate the enactments relating to education and certain enactments relating to the employment of children and young persons. The complexity of the law relating to education has long been familiar to administrators, and there are probably few branches of the law in regard to which it is so desirable that the law should be clear and explicit. For instance, in the question of school attendance, almost every parent in the country is affected, and the correspondence coming to the Board of Education shows not only that a large number of parents in this country are unable to interpret the Statutes relating to education, but that a great many of them are destitute even of that modicum of education which it is the aim of those Statutes to provide.106105rerbatim104THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
: I am very much obliged for the suggestion which has been made by the noble Viscount and the noble Lord, and I hope that the noble Lord will proceed on the course that he has suggested.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I think my noble friend must accept my statement in the form in which it was delivered.VISCOUNT PEEL
109: My Lords, I rather expected that my noble friend would introduce his Question with a preliminary speech, because he has brought this subject before the House on two occasions already, and I thought that the preliminary efforts were mere reconnaissances and that this was the real action which he was going to develop. Therefore, he will perhaps excuse me for answering the Question, not as briefly as his own speech, but a little more briefly than I did on previous occasions.109VISCOUNT PEEL
: Then I take it I am quite justified in presuming that the answer to my Question, why the dominant principle has been departed from, is an admission that the dominant principle has been departed from.LORD RATHCREEDAN
: Namely, that the dominant principle has been departed from.LORD RATHCREEDAN
: My Lords, I beg to ask His Majesty's Government whether in view of the proposed reduction of four Cavalry regiments and the statement that the dominant principle in the selection of regiments for disbandment was the period of continuous existence, why the dominant principle has been departed from.LORD RATHCREEDAN
: I have it in charge to acquaint the House that a Commission has been issued under His Majesty's Great Seal to several Lords therein named, authorising the said Lords to declare, in the name and on behalf of His Majesty, His Majesty's approbation of the choice of the Commons of the Right Hon. John Henry Whitley to be their Speaker.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
: My Lords and Members of the House of Commons, it not being convenient for His Majesty to be personally present here at this time, a Commission has been issued under the Great Seal, commanding us and several other Lords therein named to notify and declare His Majesty's approbation of the choice of Hit faithful Commons of the Right Hon. John Henry Whitley to be their Speaker, winch Commission you will now hear read.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
77: Mr. Whitley, we have it in command from His Majesty to declare His Majesty's entire
77THE LORD CHANCELLOR
108: My Lords, I had intended to offer the suggestion to the noble Viscount that it might be desirable to set up what has not been set up this session—namely, the Joint Committee of both Houses to which are referred Consolidation Bills. There is no doubt that that Committee has done very great service in that connection in past years. I have looked through this Bill, and I venture to say that it is just the sort of Bill which should go to that Committee. If
108LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
107: My Lords, I rise not to prolong the discussion on this Bill, which contains nothing new, but to say that I agree with the sentiments expressed by the noble Viscount that this is a very valuable and useful Bill. It takes a mass of provisions, which have grown up in various Statutes sporadically, and gives
107VISCOUNT HALDANE
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn until Tuesday next.VISCOUNT SANDHURST
: My Lords, I am sorry to say that my noble friend, the Leader of the House, in consequence of the continuance of the Allies' Conference, is unable to be here to-day, and I must therefore invite Lord Newton to consent to the postponement of this Bill, in which he is so much interested. I suggest it should be put down for Thursday next.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: My Lords, I am sorry to say that I am not in a position to give Lord Salisbury and your Lordships generally any information) upon this subject at present. The position, from one point of view and another, is still somewhat vague, and I am afraid that I cannot promise to give your Lordships information during the present week. If, however, it is found possible to give some, general indication, I suggest that I should communicate privately with Lord Salisbury and invite him to raise the matter on Thursday next, but I am afraid that at the present moment I cannot give any promise that even on Thursday it will be possible to make a final statement.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: My Lords, I beg to read the following Message from the King:—THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I suggest that it should be put down for next Thursday. Lord Curzon is much disappointed that he is not able to be present to take the Second Reading to-day.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
122121120119118117116: My Lords, this Bill has been introduced in order to meet the situation created by the passing of the
122121120119118117116THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: This is a Motion which I feel, on grounds of order, the greatest difficulty in putting. The Motion of the noble Earl is for the Second Reading of the Bill. It is quite unfamiliar in my Parliamentary experience that on a Motion for a Second Reading there should be a kind of conditional sanction given to it, on which the House is to pronounce before it has pronounced on the Second Reading. I do not know whether the noble Lord has considered the alternative course, that unless he obtains an assurance from the Government that would satisfy him he should vote against the Second Reading. That is the course invariably adopted in the House of Commons, and I think in your Lordships' House, and I have never known a course adopted such as the one suggested, which I think would be a very unwise proceeding.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
: I am entirely in the hands of the House, but I thought there had been Motions framed in this way. May I say, however, that I would move it only in order to get sonic reply? I have no intention of pressing it.LORD STRACHIE
: Can the noble Earl now, or will he at some future time, give the House any idea of what will be the percentage proportion of cost contemplated under the Bill thrown upon the rates, and what will be the percentage, thrown upon taxation?LORD HARRIS
127: The noble Lord opposite referred, in the first remark he made, to the fact that the White Paper was not on the Table of the House, and he asked that in future when White Papers were issued by the House of Commons they might be available to your Lordships. I am sorry that this White Paper has not been available to your Lordships, but in future I will endeavour to take such steps as will meet the noble Lord's wishes.127THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: That is what I wanted to know.LORD HARRIS
128: Can the noble Earl say whether the figures he has given represent the maximum annual expenditure which would fall under this Bill?; because, in dealing with these Bills in this way one is always afraid lest they open the door to steadily progressive expenditure. The
128LORD SYDENHAM
: I do not think I can say that they may he regarded as final. The block grant of £300,000 may be regarded as final I think, but the sum of £2,000,000 depends upon the amount which the councils spend under the approved scheme each year, which may be more or less. I think that is the answer to the noble Lord.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I should like to ask the noble Earl over what period the expenditure of the £3,000,000 is supposed to be spread. Is it all going to be spent in one year, or in two years? It seems to me an enormous sum to ask the ratepayers to spend at the present time, when the limit of their capacity has already been reached. I do not think they should be asked to embark upon an extravagant scheme of this character, which seems to be a legacy from the late administration of the Ministry of Health. After what happened in this House last session one hoped that there was going to be an improvement. Will the noble Earl kindly tell the House over what period the spending of the £3,000,000 will be extended, and whether it is to be capital expenditure or not?VISCOUNT GALWAY
: I am afraid I do not quite follow the noble Viscount.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I understood the noble Earl to say that a sum of £3,000,000 would be expended from the rates.VISCOUNT GALWAY
: No; £2,000,000.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Then I was mistaken, but I trust that no additional expenditure will be placed on the ratepayers, considering how heavily burdened they are already.VISCOUNT GALWAY
129: I think the noble Viscount is under a misapprehension. It is not additional expenditure. He knows much better than I do that this institutional treatment has been going on for some time, and that half of the cost has been found by the rates and half out of
129THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, if I have not exhausted my right to speak on this matter, I should like to take this opportunity of entering a protest against the enormous charge which is being thrown upon the rates for this purpose. In concluding his speech just now the noble Earl referred to this as a national object. He said that a reduction of something like 20 per cent, in the number of tuberculosis cases was a great national advantage. It is a very great advantage, but it is a national advantage as the noble Earl said; so why should so large a proportion of the cost be thrown upon the rates? This is merely a continuation of what has already been done. It means that the House of Commons has agreed to it in past years and allowed this extra charge to be thrown on the rates. It is growing every year, and the ratepayers are getting very indignant that these charges should be laid on them almost carelessly by Parliament. Therefore, we are entitled, I think, when we have an opportunity, to enter our protest against it. I do not know how the suggested proportion was arrived at. Why should it not be 25 per cent. on the rates and 75 per cent. on taxation, which seems to me to be a very much fairer proportion?LORD HARRIS
131: My Lords, the noble Viscount opposite is perfectly correct in the quotation which he has given your Lordships from Articles 496 and 497 of the Royal Warrant, which provide that retired officers compulsorily recalled to service in an emergency should receive the full pay of their rank, or payment without reduction of retired pay, and should, on determination of their employment, receive a gratuity of thirty-one days' pay for each year or part of a year. These Articles, however, were placed in abeyance by Royal Warrant in September, 1920. The number of the Army Order is 392 of 1920, so that there is no contravention of the Warrant in the case of officers in the Reserve of Officers. Article 518, to which
131THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
: I gathered from the noble Lord's reply that an Order has been issued which abrogated the Royal Warrant. Am I right?VISCOUNT TEMPLETOWN
: Not quite. You cannot abrogate one Royal Warrant except by another, and there has been a subsequent Royal Warrant placing the previous one in abeyance.VISCOUNT PEEL
: It seems to me that does not do away with the hardships of which the officers complain. There are many cases, which I shall be prepared to quote on a future occasion, showing that these officers, in doing what they have done—which, of course, is their duty—will be very much out-of-pocket as a result.VISCOUNT TEMPLETOWN
: Another scale of payment is introduced by this Royal Warrant.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I am afraid that I am at a discount at this moment, but I shall go further into the matter on a future occasion.VISCOUNT TEMPLETOWN
: My Lords, an apology is certainly due to the noble Marquess and to your Lordships that an answer is not forthcoming to-day. It is none the less true that I cannot answer it at this moment, though I hope to do so on the date to which the noble Marquess is good enough to postpone the Question. I cannot inform your Lordships exactly why the information has not been received. I understand that it was telegraphed for, but when I came to the House this afternoon I found to my surprise that the Irish Office had not received from the military authorities the information asked for. I will not make ally observations upon the omission to supply it, because I do not feel that I know enough about it. If the noble Marquess will put down his Question for the day after to-morrow I will give him the fullest answer in my power.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: That is Thursday next?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Yes.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
135: My Lords, I am afraid Lord Parmoor finds himself faced with the same difficulty as the noble
135THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Would the noble Earl allow me to make an explanation? I asked the Lord Chancellor whether that would be an objection; and I understood that it was not.LORD PARMOOR
: I am merely going to repeat what the Lord Chancellor said a moment ago—namely, that it is impossible for me to give a full answer, just as it was impossible for him. As to the nature of the Inquiry, whether it would he a Court of Inquiry or a Court-Martial, I confess I believe I used both phrases when addressing your Lordships the other day. Frankly, I cannot charge my memory as to what is the actual nature of the Court, but that point will be made clear when the Lord Chancellor speaks on this matter a day or two hence.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Censored.LORD PARMOOR
136: The word "garbled" was used, and I have no evidence of that. Certainly the reports, as I read them, do not show any external signs of being "garbled." So far as the case against the Forces of the Crown is reported, it seems to be stated with decision, completeness and fairness, and I am not prepared to admit that the charge is correct.
136THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
137: May I be allowed to say one word in answer to what the noble Earl has just said? As regards the word "censored" I used that word as implying that it was a garbled report. I think it is, in the sense that you do not get a full report of what has happened. As regards the matter of the dum-dum bullet, I beg to say that an Inquiry, is exactly what I want. I have been pressing for an impartial public Inquiry. The allegation as regards the dum-dum bullet was contained in a letter which I read. I showed the bullet to members of this House of the highest military authority, and they informed me that it was such, because the bullet had been turned round with the nose the wrong way on. It was a cartridge which had not exploded. If it had exploded one
137LORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, I rise to say just one word on this matter. It has been my duty more than once to take part in these Irish debates and to observe the consequences of statements and charges made in debate and perhaps not always completely verified by sufficient consideration. The discussion which has just taken place illustrates more clearly than any other incident could, or in my recollection has done, the positive danger, until the result of the Inquiry is in your hands, of noble Lords constituting themselves the advocates of a certain point of view in dealing with facts and circumstances, with the result, the most unfortunate result, of inflaming public opinion. I do not know whether Lord Parmoour is aware that his statement, so dramatically made, is already the subject of discussion in the bazaars of India, and of indictment among our enemies in the United States. Surely the noble and learned Lord would have served his interests more effectively if he hail placed at the disposal of the tribunal who were examining into this matter the suspicions which this incident caused to arise in his mind, and had not, with the authority which the noble and learned Lord's high position in this House gives him, stated it as a proved fact.TEE LORD CHANCELLOR
138: My Lords, may I say, in answer to the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, that I entirely agree with him that there should be an impartial and public Inquiry. The statement which I made was read from a letter from my
138LORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, I think there is yet another matter as to which some protest should be made. It seems to be assumed by the noble and learned Lord to-day that because this tribunal happens to be described not as a Court-Martial but as a Court of Inquiry, we may therefore, on no better ground than that, proceed to discuss it in one of our legislative Houses. Such a proceeding is contrary to the very best traditions of debate in both those Houses. You do not allow a discussion upon a coroner's inquest, and yet in a coroner's inquest there may be, as yet, no person put upon his trial, because no person has been convicted by the evidence. I think it should also be pointed out that it does not follow that the public are not admitted because it so happens that nobody is admitted but the Press. There may be good reasons in Ireland at the present time why it is not desirable, or even safe, in the interests of the officers and persons holding the Inquiry, to admit the general public. They may not be safe from violence. You have secured all the advantages of admitting the public when you have admitted the Press, because you can then be assured that the public will get some account of what takes place.LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
: I am sorry to trouble the House again, but I should like to point out that not only was it not an issue but it was admitted.LORD PARMOOR
: Who admitted it, and where?LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
140: If the noble Lord at all regards these matters that have been going on, I think he will find it perfectly
140LORD PARMOOR
: All I can say is that whether a thing amounts to an admission or not may itself be a most disputable matter.LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
115"Provided always that nothing in this subsection shall prejudice or restrict the right of the
115: My Lords, the Commons made two Amendments in this Bill. The first is in Clause 87 (for the protection of Caldwell and Company (Paper-makers) Limited, the words "at present" being omitted, and the words "which were prior to the application to the Secretary for Scotland for this Order" being inserted. The second Amendment is the addition of the following proviso to Clause 88:
115"Provided always that nothing in this subsection shall prejudice or restrict the right of the
115LORD STANMORE
: Do I understand that it will be taken this week?LORD NEWTON
: My Lords, in accordance with private notice which I have given, I beg to ask my noble friend whether he can give the House any information in respect of the holidays. It is a matter which generally interests your Lordships at this time of year.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
199: My Lords, I must congratulate my noble friend on the sleepless energy with which lie has returned to the charge on behalf of the 5th Lancers for the fourth time during the last three or four weeks. I can only regret that his energy and the variety of the tactics which lie has pursued did not lead him to remain in the Army and thus continue a military career instead of exchanging it for a political one. With all the good will in the world I cannot add to what I have already said more than once in your Lordships' House. The suggestion is that the 18th, 19th and 20th Hussars and the 21st Lancers should be disbanded and that to restore the balance in the linked system the 15th Hussars should be converted into Lancers. My noble friend has come forward with the definite proposal that the 15th Hussars should be converted into Lancers and the 18th Hussars should he disbanded instead of the 5th Lancers.199THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL) 
: Under my scheme it would be one only.LORD RATHCREEDAN
200: I repeat that there would be a reduction of the Hussar corps by four regiments. The 18th, 19th and 20th Hussars are to lie disbanded and it is proposed to convert the 15th Hussars into Lancers, reducing the Corps of Hussars, therefore, by no less than four regiments.200VISCOUNT PEEL
: I must thank the noble Viscount for his answer, which is completely and entirely unsatisfactory. I purpose taking other steps to endeavour to prevent this gross injustice being done.LORD RATHCREEDAN
judice195194193personnel192: My Lords, I think I can best answer Lord Sydenham's Question by first of all stating as clearly as I can the actual facts regarding the reductions in the Indian Army which have already been approved. I have already dealt with this matter on a previous occasion, but I should like to remind your Lordships what these reductions actually are. The total establishment of fighting units in India—that is, exclusive of troops at Aden, in the Persian Gulf, and in overseas garrisons outside India and Burma—the total strength allowed for in the Budget for 1.921–1922 is less than the corresponding figures for. 1914 by about 6,000 British ranks and 7,500 Indian ranks. With regard to British troops, the reduction has come about in this way. During the war a number of British units were withdrawn from service in India for service elsewhere, with the result that the numbers now are less than those before the war by one British Cavalry regiment and six British infantry battalions. With regard to the Indian troops the reduction of eighteen Cavalry regiments—that is, from 39 to 21—has been sanctioned, as I explained on a previous occasion, the Infantry battalions remaining the same.judice195194193personnel192THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
: My Lords, I understand that this Motion is accepted by the House.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
167CrecysBreslauGoebenmatériel166: My Lords, the Army General Staff, to which the noble and learned Viscount has referred, was the direct result of the South African War. The exhaustive inquiry which was held after that war showed that the Staff arrangements were in many respects almost chaotic, and traced the causes of some of our failures to that situation. Then it was that Mr. Balfour determined that the War Office must be reconstructed, and in 1904 the first foundations of a real General Staff were laid. The noble and learned Viscount took charge of this infant institution in 1906 and gave the greatest possible attention, care, and assistance to it. It must be a great satisfaction to him now to have seen during the recent war the result of his care and attention.167CrecysBreslauGoebenmatériel166LORD SYDENHAM
170169168: My Lords, I merely desire to supplement shortly what has been said by the noble and learned Viscount, and by the noble Lord on the cross benches, both of whom are so fully qualified to discuss this Question. I am sure it will be a satisfaction to everybody, not least to the noble Lord, the First Lord of the Admiralty, that the Question has been raised by my noble and learned friend. We do not have many naval debates in this House. There have not been many in the past, owing partly, no doubt, to the fact that there were far fewer naval officers than military officers in your Lordships' number, and it is not always that we have been favoured with a direct representative of the Admiralty. It was not until the noble Earl, Lord Lytton, represented the Admiralty here that we could be ensured of a direct Admiralty reply. Now we have the noble Lord, the First Lord, giving up ploughing
170169168THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
173matériel172171malijons el origo: My Lords, it is not often that a Minister has to thank his critics for bringing forward a debate in which the administration of his Department is brought into public review and its composition rigorously analysed, but I feel Under considerable obligation to noble Lords who have spoken on this subject, and particularly to Lord Haldane who, I know, has given a life-long study to this question and made it peculiarly his own. I hope I can be fairly impartial in my reply for the very reason he gave—namely, that I have not been long enough in my present position to be really responsible for the system that has grown up, or unduly wedded to it by long use and association. He very handsomely acquitted me of being 173matériel172171malijons el origoTHE FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY (LORD LEE OF FAREHAM) 
: Oh, no.VISCOUNT HALDANE
: Then I misunderstood my noble friend's remarks. He spoke particularly of senior officers. The Staff College is quite a separate thing from the War College course which is attended by senior officers. The Staff College is an institution which happens also to be at Greenwich at. present—largely for financial reasons—and which provides a course for young officers, the limits of age being, I think, almost precisely those which obtain in the Army—namely, 25 to 34. Officers who have shown promise are selected for this course and go through it in much the same way in which Army officers go through the course at Camberley.LORD LEE OF FAREHAM
: How long is the course?VISCOUNT HALDANE
liaison174: At present it is only a year, as compared with two years at Camberley. I admit that it would be desirable, if possible, that the length of that course should be extended. The reason for the length of course adopted is that the need of the trained staff officer is so great that at the institution of this system of college training it is essential that we should get men passed through in as large numbers and as rapidly as possible, in order to have a sufficient nucleus in case
liaison174LORD LEE OF FAREHAM
: Can the noble Lord tell us something about the numbers and the proportions?VISCOUNT HALDANE
175: I may be able to tell the noble Lord a little later, but I cannot give him the figures on the spur of the moment. The value of that source of young officers is very keenly recognised in the Navy. A special investigation was made, as a result of the war, as to the records of the young officers who came from the different sources, and I say that, on the whole, the public school
175LORD LEE OF FAREHAM
: What I really meant was that training was so great a subject that it really needed a Director of its own, and that at present training and staff duties are lumped with operations under the Deputy Chief of Staff, instead of being under a separate Director.VISCOUNT HALDANE
: There I think the noble Viscount is under a misapprehension. The training is under a Director of Training and Staff Duties.LORD LEE OF FAREHAM
: But he is under the control of the Deputy Chief of Staff.VISCOUNT HALDANE
: Some one must co-ordinate the different branches.LORD LEE OF FAREHAM
176: But the Director of Training is a very important person. At the War Office the D.M.T. is now amal-
176VISCOUNT HALDANE
: Which is precisely the position at the Admiralty. The Director of Training is exactly on an equality with those of other branches co-ordinated by the Deputy Chief of Staff, who is a Vice-Admiral. The noble Viscount may not approve of that system, but it is comparable with the system at the War Office, where both officers are under a member of the Army Council.LORD LEE OF FAREHAM
: Under the Chief of General Staff.VISCOUNT HALDANE
: But there is a Deputy Chief of Staff at the War Office, and his position is exactly analogous to that of the Deputy Chief of Staff at the Admiralty.LORD LEE OF FAREHAM 
: It was not so in my time.VISCOUNT HALDANE
179178177: Many things have happened since then, among others, the war, and as a result of the experiences of the war it was found absolutely essential that the Chief of Staff should have a deputy, who would set him free for some of this high thinking to which the noble Viscount attaches so much importance. Let me assure the noble Viscount that they are treated at the Admiralty as two great, separate subjects, each with a Director, in exactly the same relative positions as the corresponding Directors at the War Office, and the activities of these Directors are co-ordinated by the Deputy Chief of General Staff, who is a member of the Board of Admiralty, and who is relieving the Chief of Staff of some of his responsibility, though always responsible to him. To that extent I think that the system which the noble Viscount desires is really being carried out at the present time. I do not say that it is not capable of some improvement. We shall digest the observations coming from the wide experience of the noble Viscount, and if we find any means of making improvements we shall not proceed with closed minds.179178177LORD LEE OF FAREHAM
: On his own staffVISCOUNT HALDA.NE
: On his own staff. To that extent I am in entire agreement with the noble Viscount in wishing to make that system more general. The last point with which he dealt was the importance of the Imperial Staff. Again, I am in complete agreement with him And we have made a beginning in that direction. We have already invited the Dominions to send their officers to our Naval Staff College, to take part in actual administrative work at the Admiralty, to become thoroughly acquainted with our whole system, administrative, educational, and Staff, in order to produce, so far as practicable, that community of ideas upon which, as he rightly says, possibly the very future existence of the Empire might depend. That matter will be more fully explored at the coming Imperial Conference, but it is undoubtedly a matter of the utmost importance and significance in the future, and one which engages the wholehearted approval of the Board of Admiralty.LORD LEE OF FAREHAM
: After the very full and frank response of the noble Lord, I should not think of pressing the Motion for Papers, but if he will do what he says and let us have a Paper showing, with a conspectus, the organisation as it is at the present time, it will be of great assistance and will, I think., relieve a good deal of anxiety.VISCOUNT HALDANE
: Can the noble Earl say whether it is intended to use the power to lengthen summer time, or is that only to be kept in reserve in case it is wanted?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
147" That this Conference rejects the Government's proposals as they do not concede the fundamental principles of a National Wages Board and a national pool, for which we stand."dss146: I should like to consult the Department before I give a definite answer to that question. As regards the general situation, in the earlier phases of this unhappy crisis I came down here and made a statement almost from day to day. The last occasion on which, in my absence, this was done by my noble friend, Lord Crawford, who was acting for me, was on April 25—at the beginning of last week. On that occasion he alluded to the offer which had just been submitted by the mine owners, and under which, over a temporary period of three months, reductions in wages in each area should be a uniform amount per shift for all workers, and should in no case exceed such an amount as might be fixed by the Government, the owners, and the men, for each of the three months respectively, while in any district in which it was necessary for the Government to assist in the payment of wages the owners in the aggregate should forego all profits.147" That this Conference rejects the Government's proposals as they do not concede the fundamental principles of a National Wages Board and a national pool, for which we stand."dss146EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
148: My Lords, the announcement made in the latter part of the noble Earl's speech, that he is not able to see any daylight through the gloomy prospect of this industrial dispute, will not surprise your Lordships, because we had gathered so much so far as we had been able to follow its course in the daily Press and from private sources. It stands to reason, of course, that so long as the two parties stand to the assertion they have made—the one, His Majesty's Government., explaining that they will not admit the existence of a national pool for profits; and the other, the miners, saying that they
148THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: And very likely not at all.EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
149: And very likely not at all. I am sure that His Majesty's Government will realise that a free and indiscriminate use of them would be unpalatable to a. great many persons. The only other point is the matter which was mentioned in a question by my noble friend, Lord Salisbury—that of the application of an extra hour of summer time. The noble Earl was not in a position at the moment to reply to the noble Marquess's question, but I should
149THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, may I point out, with reference to what has been said, that the question of summer time is even more important in Ireland? There, already, we have been given English time, which is twenty-five minutes in advance of the time in Southern Ireland, and forty-five minutes in advance in the West of Ireland. If it is further advanced it would mean that the time in the West of Ireland would be nearly three hours head, and the result would he very much worse for Ireland. Perhaps the noble Earl will bear that in mind if any changes are to be made.LORD ORANMORE AND BROWNE
: My Lords, it is now my duty to move to resolve—EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
150: My Lords. I beg to make the other Motion standing in my name which reads as follows—150EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: My Lords, this Bill is to confirm a Provisional Order of the Ministry of Health relating to Dover, known as the Ministry of Health Provisional Order (Dover Extension) Bill. It extends the borough boundary to take in the port and rural parish of River. That is done in order to complete the housing scheme of the town of Dover which extends into this parish. The extension also takes into the borough the piers which extend into the sea and, therefore, were not technically in the borough. The piers are the Admiralty pier, the Prince of Wales pier, and one or two smaller jetties. I do not think there has been any opposition to this Bill, and I beg to move that it be read a second time.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: My noble friend has been good enough to assure me, as has the noble Viscount, Lord Cave, that the slight doubt which existed when the noble Lord moved on an earlier occasion has been resolved.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
190raj189personnel188matériel187: My Lords, before the noble Earl, Lord Lytton, replies to the speech which has just been delivered by the noble Lord, I should like to say a few words on this very important matter, because I have been responsible during the past five years for the policy in India. I accept that responsibility, and I wish to place before this House the reasons for the various Questions which the noble Lord has raised this afternoon. In the first place I should like to draw the attention of the House to the particular Question and Motion which the noble Lord has placed on the Paper. He asks the Under-Secretary of State for India whether he can state the extent of, and the reasons for, the intended reductions in the Indian Army. The greater part of the noble Lord's speech was taken up with a lurid account of the condition of India at the present moment. I quite agree that the state of India and the external menace to India from Afghanistan and the tribes are factors which have to be taken into account in any reduction of the Indian Army, but one felt, listening to the noble Lord, that these were the matters to which he, wished particularly to draw your Lordships' attention.190raj189personnel188matériel187LORD CHELMSFORD
: I beg leave to withdraw my Motion.LORD SYDENHAM
186185" At the station we found ourselves in the midst of a crowd of the most menacing and hostile Indians I have ever seen. We appeared to be the only two Europeans anywhere near, and we at once received the attention of the whole crowd. They collected round our carriage, jeered at my wife—who, as you know, only arrived in this country last week—and finally decided to enter our carriage. A policeman on duty—the only one visible—kept some of them back, whilst I myself was able to keep the door closed against the remainder. The train fortunately started, and I had hoped all was well, but at each successive station the crowd got down from their carriages and endeavoured to get on to our compartment, sometimes hem both sides, all the while shouting: Mahatma Gandhi ki Jai,' Hindu Mussalman ki Jai: The experience for my wife, who is only a girl of twenty, was most terrifying, and for myself was one of the most trying experiences I have ever had. The crowd was practically in possession of the train. None had a ticket, and they all entered whichever compartment they pleased, only being kept out of mine by force. Fortunately, though prepared for it, I was not obliged to shoot, but it was a near thing. as had they succeeded in getting into our carriage I would have done so to protect my wife."184183Manchester Guardian182"The battle value of Cavalry increases with the breadth of vision bestowed by aircraft. The Air Service by enlarging the horizon renders possible such bold strokes by masses of horsemen as were seen in Mesopotamia, Palestine and Syria."181: My Lords, I desire to ask the Under-Secretary of State for India the Question which stands in my name on the Paper—namely, whether he can state the extent of, and the reasons for, the intended reductions in the Indian Army —and to move for Papers. The reduction of the Indian Army at this juncture raises what are really great Imperial questions and, I think, needs more justification than it has yet received from anybody. Decisions which may have the most serious consequences seem to have been taken without the previous knowledge of Parliament, and I am quite certain that very few people in this country realise how serious is the step that is contemplated. Before the great Mutiny, the Indian Army consisted of 311,500 native and 39,500 British troops. That Army rendered great services overseas in Ceylon, Amboyna, Egypt, Macao, Bourbon, Rodriguez, Java, Persia, Afghanistan, Burma and China. That was a great record, which is too often forgotten in these days.186185" At the station we found ourselves in the midst of a crowd of the most menacing and hostile Indians I have ever seen. We appeared to be the only two Europeans anywhere near, and we at once received the attention of the whole crowd. They collected round our carriage, jeered at my wife—who, as you know, only arrived in this country last week—and finally decided to enter our carriage. A policeman on duty—the only one visible—kept some of them back, whilst I myself was able to keep the door closed against the remainder. The train fortunately started, and I had hoped all was well, but at each successive station the crowd got down from their carriages and endeavoured to get on to our compartment, sometimes hem both sides, all the while shouting: Mahatma Gandhi ki Jai,' Hindu Mussalman ki Jai: The experience for my wife, who is only a girl of twenty, was most terrifying, and for myself was one of the most trying experiences I have ever had. The crowd was practically in possession of the train. None had a ticket, and they all entered whichever compartment they pleased, only being kept out of mine by force. Fortunately, though prepared for it, I was not obliged to shoot, but it was a near thing. as had they succeeded in getting into our carriage I would have done so to protect my wife."184183Manchester Guardian182"The battle value of Cavalry increases with the breadth of vision bestowed by aircraft. The Air Service by enlarging the horizon renders possible such bold strokes by masses of horsemen as were seen in Mesopotamia, Palestine and Syria."181LORD SYDENHAM
: My Lords, I would now make the second Motion which stands in my name on the Paper, as to which I understand no objection is taken.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: My Lords, I beg to propose the Motion that stands in my name on the Paper.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: My Lords, this Bill is exactly similar to one which your Lordships were pleased to pass the other day. It refers simply to the piers of the districts of Belfast, Coleraine, Londonderry and Portrush. I do not think any explanation is required, but I am quite willing to go into details if there is a desire that I should do so.LORD SOMERLEYTON
: My Lords, may I ask the noble Earl who leads the House whether he has any statement to make regarding the general business of the House?THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I think the statement which the noble Earl has just made will be received with satisfaction by the House.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
:My Lords, I may I now ask the noble Earl whether be is in a position to make any statement regarding the recent Conference and the conclusions which, so far as one can judge from the daily Press, have been there arrived at?MARQUESS OF CREWE
plusplus218: My Lords, I am very grateful to the noble Earl for having given so full an account of the recent negotiations and conclusions of the Allied Conference. I am sure we are to be congratulated that the Leader of the House and the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs is a noble Lord who is able to give so balanced and so lucid an account of the very complicated and difficult matters with winch he has just dealt. I have no desire to go back in any way to the terms of the Versailles Treaty, or to criticise those terms, except to this degree, that they have to be considered in so far as they may have to some extent caused those continual evasions and procrastinations on the part of the German Government, of which the noble Earl has, most justly no doubt, complained as causing some part of the difficulties which have confronted Europe during the last two and a half years.plusplus218THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
222221220219: I am much obliged to the noble Earl for that explana-
222221220219THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, in moving that the House do now resolve itself into Committee, I should like to say one word on the subject of the White Paper to which attention was drawn by the noble Lord, Lord Strachie. I promised him I would look into it, and I would like to inform the House that the Paper was placed on the Table on April 4, so that it was in the possession of the House, though not actually on the Table, when the debate on the Second Reading of the Bill took place.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: The first two Amendments standing in my name are purely drafting. The object of all my Amendments to this Clause is to set out more clearly the position in Wales.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
253: Perhaps I had better take first the last point raised by my noble friend. He said that when any modifications of schemes are being considered at the Ministry (being proposals from the local authorities) the insurance committees should have the right to make representations. I do not think it is necessary to make that a statutory right.253THE EARL OF ONSLOW
:I am much obliged to my noble friend. I am sure the committees concerned will be glad of the definite public assurance given by the noble Earl that they have the right, and that it is desirable that they should exercise it, to make representations on the occasions to which I have referred.LORD O'HAGAN
: My Lords, Lord Weardale asked Lord more to put this Question on his behalf, but I have just intimated to the noble and learned Lord that Lord Curzon has been called away to meet a Foreign Minister who has to leave London to-night, and he asked that the Question should be postponed until Tuesday.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: I beg to move that this House do now adjourn until Tuesday next.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
263262d(dc(cb(ba(a
d(dc(cb(ba(a" (10) The Court find—" (9) That the statement which appeared in the Press to the effect that the Auxiliaries returned, accused Mr. O'Donovan of harbouring rebels,' took him out and shot him, was incorrect and was entirely unjustified, and is further disproved by the position of the wounds." (8) That the Court are of opinion that whilst the evidence of Miss Margaret Wade was given in good faith she can only have had a partial view of what occurred and was mistaken in saying that she saw Mr. O'Donovan and Constable Talbot together. On this point the evidence of the two constables is conclusive." (7) That proper precautions were taken to protect Mr. and Mrs. O'Donovan and the female employees of the hotel."(6) That Captain and 2/D.I. Wood gave the orders to cease fire as soon as he knew that Constable Talbot had surrendered, and that this order was obeyed.261" (5) That considerable excitement prevailed; that the fact that Constable Talbot, who remained
261" (4) That the two civilians who were first captured and also Constable Talbot were not ill-treated." (3) That the first shot was fired by the police." (2) That the orders issued by Captain and 2 /DI W. P. Wood were so framed as to show the intention of avoiding unnecessary bloodshed." (1) That the detachment of G. Company, Auxiliary Division, Royal Irish Constabulary, was engaged in a legitimate and properly organised operation.
d(dc(cb(ba(a
d(dc(cb(ba(a" (10) The Court find—" (9) That the statement which appeared in the Press to the effect that the Auxiliaries returned, accused Mr. O'Donovan of harbouring rebels,' took him out and shot him, was incorrect and was entirely unjustified, and is further disproved by the position of the wounds." (8) That the Court are of opinion that whilst the evidence of Miss Margaret Wade was given in good faith she can only have had a partial view of what occurred and was mistaken in saying that she saw Mr. O'Donovan and Constable Talbot together. On this point the evidence of the two constables is conclusive." (7) That proper precautions were taken to protect Mr. and Mrs. O'Donovan and the female employees of the hotel."(6) That Captain and 2/D.I. Wood gave the orders to cease fire as soon as he knew that Constable Talbot had surrendered, and that this order was obeyed.261" (5) That considerable excitement prevailed; that the fact that Constable Talbot, who remained
261" (4) That the two civilians who were first captured and also Constable Talbot were not ill-treated." (3) That the first shot was fired by the police." (2) That the orders issued by Captain and 2 /DI W. P. Wood were so framed as to show the intention of avoiding unnecessary bloodshed." (1) That the detachment of G. Company, Auxiliary Division, Royal Irish Constabulary, was engaged in a legitimate and properly organised operation.260259258257: My Lords, the Court of Inquiry which has been held into this matter was a Court of Inquiry in lieu of inquest convened under the Restoration of Order in Ireland Regulations, No. 81, to inquire into the deaths of Sergeant Hughes, Royal Irish Constabulary, Cadet Pringle, Royal Irish Constabulary, and Mr. O'Donovan. Such a Court has all the powers and all t he duties of a coroner's court, and the certificate of its finding is forwarded to the
263262d(dc(cb(ba(a
d(dc(cb(ba(a" (10) The Court find—" (9) That the statement which appeared in the Press to the effect that the Auxiliaries returned, accused Mr. O'Donovan of harbouring rebels,' took him out and shot him, was incorrect and was entirely unjustified, and is further disproved by the position of the wounds." (8) That the Court are of opinion that whilst the evidence of Miss Margaret Wade was given in good faith she can only have had a partial view of what occurred and was mistaken in saying that she saw Mr. O'Donovan and Constable Talbot together. On this point the evidence of the two constables is conclusive." (7) That proper precautions were taken to protect Mr. and Mrs. O'Donovan and the female employees of the hotel."(6) That Captain and 2/D.I. Wood gave the orders to cease fire as soon as he knew that Constable Talbot had surrendered, and that this order was obeyed.261" (5) That considerable excitement prevailed; that the fact that Constable Talbot, who remained
261" (4) That the two civilians who were first captured and also Constable Talbot were not ill-treated." (3) That the first shot was fired by the police." (2) That the orders issued by Captain and 2 /DI W. P. Wood were so framed as to show the intention of avoiding unnecessary bloodshed." (1) That the detachment of G. Company, Auxiliary Division, Royal Irish Constabulary, was engaged in a legitimate and properly organised operation.
d(dc(cb(ba(a
d(dc(cb(ba(a" (10) The Court find—" (9) That the statement which appeared in the Press to the effect that the Auxiliaries returned, accused Mr. O'Donovan of harbouring rebels,' took him out and shot him, was incorrect and was entirely unjustified, and is further disproved by the position of the wounds." (8) That the Court are of opinion that whilst the evidence of Miss Margaret Wade was given in good faith she can only have had a partial view of what occurred and was mistaken in saying that she saw Mr. O'Donovan and Constable Talbot together. On this point the evidence of the two constables is conclusive." (7) That proper precautions were taken to protect Mr. and Mrs. O'Donovan and the female employees of the hotel."(6) That Captain and 2/D.I. Wood gave the orders to cease fire as soon as he knew that Constable Talbot had surrendered, and that this order was obeyed.261" (5) That considerable excitement prevailed; that the fact that Constable Talbot, who remained
261" (4) That the two civilians who were first captured and also Constable Talbot were not ill-treated." (3) That the first shot was fired by the police." (2) That the orders issued by Captain and 2 /DI W. P. Wood were so framed as to show the intention of avoiding unnecessary bloodshed." (1) That the detachment of G. Company, Auxiliary Division, Royal Irish Constabulary, was engaged in a legitimate and properly organised operation.260259258257THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
: I am very glad to hear the noble Viscount attenuate to so remarkable a degree the force of the criticisms to which we have listened.EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: I am glad I have given the noble Viscount an opportunity to make it clear. But even taking him on his own ground, as I understand he was not so much enunciating a general principle as he was applying criticism to particular cases. Taking his own eases in a sentence or two, he referred to the Szeklers, that small community of people admittedly and wholly. Magyars, away in Transylvania, and he said: "Because these people are Magyars what an outrage to sever them from the Magyar population of Hungary.'' He did not tell your Lordships that this small community of 500,000 people, hidden away like an islet in Transylvania, cannot possibly be connected by any means whatever with Hungary, and that it was impossible to construct an ethnic corridor between them and the Magyars of Hungary.EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: I would just say, not in correction but in supplement, that that is left in the hands of the Sub-Committee of the Reparation Commission to which, in a sentence, I referred.EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
216215214213212bona fides211210209208in tote207EinwohnerwehrEinwohnerwehr206personnel205c"(d) Failing fulfilment by the German Government of the above conditions by May 12 to proceed to the occupation of the Valley of the Ruhr, and to take all other military and naval measures that may be required. Such occupation will continue so long as Germany fails to comply with the conditions summarised in paragraph (cc"(cb" (bda" (da204" The Allied Powers, taking note of the fact that in spite of the successive concessions made by the Allies since the signature of the Treaty of Versailles, and in spite of the warnings and Sanctions agreed upon at Spa and at Paris, as well as of the Sanctions announced in London and since applied, the German Government is still in default in the fulfilment of the obligations incumbent upon it under the terms of the Treaty
204: My Lords, I think that your Lordships would probably desire, as indeed you have a right, to have as full a statement as it is possible to make about the proceedings of the Allied Conference that has been sitting in London during the past five days, and the deliberations of which concluded this morning. Seated as we have been at that Conference, for many hours of each of these five days, and having only concluded, as I remarked just now, our work at 11 o'clock this morning, it has been difficult for me, in the short interval since then, to prepare an exhaustive account of our proceedings. At the same time, it strikes me that what your Lordships really require is a summary of the situation, and a narrative of the steps by which we have reached the result that I am about to announce, the nature of the decisions themselves, and the consequences that may he expected to ensue; and, if I correctly interpret your wishes in that respect, I will endeavour to the best of my ability to satisfy them.216215214213212bona fides211210209208in tote207EinwohnerwehrEinwohnerwehr206personnel205c"(d) Failing fulfilment by the German Government of the above conditions by May 12 to proceed to the occupation of the Valley of the Ruhr, and to take all other military and naval measures that may be required. Such occupation will continue so long as Germany fails to comply with the conditions summarised in paragraph (cc"(cb" (bda" (da204" The Allied Powers, taking note of the fact that in spite of the successive concessions made by the Allies since the signature of the Treaty of Versailles, and in spite of the warnings and Sanctions agreed upon at Spa and at Paris, as well as of the Sanctions announced in London and since applied, the German Government is still in default in the fulfilment of the obligations incumbent upon it under the terms of the Treaty
204EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: My Lords, it does not appear that we have very much business before us next week, so far as the Motions or Bills now on the Paper extend, and I see no reason why we should not be able to adjourn on Thursday next. If that be so, I should hope the vacation may extend until Tuesday of the week but one after—that is, until Tuesday, May 24—and therefore, unless anything intervenes to interfere with those plans, I should hope to be in a position to move on Thursday next that we adjourn for that period.THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIR'S (EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
: My Lords, I am very much obliged to the noble Marquess who leads the Opposition for the general character of his observations. He put to me some very pertinent questions to which I could, at any rate in part, reply. But I think, in a matter of so much importance as this, it is very desirable that I should only reply after full consideration and after access to sources of information which I do not happen to have brought with me this afternoon. The House will remember that we concluded our labours only at eleven o'clock this morning, and my time since has been occupied in preparing myself for this debate. I hope, therefore, that both noble Lords will allow me to reserve my reply. I shall be very glad to give it on sonic future occasion, if they will give me the opportunity.EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
"They shall not be modified without the assent of a majority of the Council of the League of Nations.''Hungary will provide in the public educational system in: towns and districts in which a considerable proportion of Hungarian nationals of other than Magyar speech arc resident, adequate facilities for ensuring tint in the primary schools the instruction shall be given to the children through the medium of their own language —"All Hungarian nationals shall be equal before the law, and shall enjoy the same civil and political rights, without distinction as to race, language, or religion.… All inhabitants of Hungary shall be entitled to the free exercise, whether public or private, of any creed, religion, or belief whose practices are nut inconsistent with public order or public morals. … " Hungary undertakes to assure full and complete protection of life and liberty to all inhabitants of Hungary without distinction of birth, nationality, language, race or religion.229" Where the frontier, as indicated in the Treaty, does not correspond exactly to the ethnic or economic conditions, the Boundary Commission may address a report to the Council of the League of Nations, and the latter may offer its good offices."228227226débris225224: My Lords, I am sorry to have to trouble your Lordships a second time in the same afternoon with questions arising out of the war and the still unrecovered peace of Europe, but all of us view with a good deal of satisfaction the settlement, one by one, of these troubled issues, and we shall be glad to see one more of the Treaties concluded at the termination of the war—the last, indeed, but one, the exception being the Treaty of Sevres—finally disposed of. The question may be asked why,
"They shall not be modified without the assent of a majority of the Council of the League of Nations.''Hungary will provide in the public educational system in: towns and districts in which a considerable proportion of Hungarian nationals of other than Magyar speech arc resident, adequate facilities for ensuring tint in the primary schools the instruction shall be given to the children through the medium of their own language —"All Hungarian nationals shall be equal before the law, and shall enjoy the same civil and political rights, without distinction as to race, language, or religion.… All inhabitants of Hungary shall be entitled to the free exercise, whether public or private, of any creed, religion, or belief whose practices are nut inconsistent with public order or public morals. … " Hungary undertakes to assure full and complete protection of life and liberty to all inhabitants of Hungary without distinction of birth, nationality, language, race or religion.229" Where the frontier, as indicated in the Treaty, does not correspond exactly to the ethnic or economic conditions, the Boundary Commission may address a report to the Council of the League of Nations, and the latter may offer its good offices."228227226débris225224EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
230: Yes, Czecho-Slovakia is not mentioned, I think, in the Articles to which I refer in this Treaty, but my impression is that CzechoSlovakia is one of the Successor States that have ratified a Minority Treaty, and is therefore bound.230EARL CURZON OF:KEDLESTON
233régime232" At the end of this period any State which has requested such a Convention without succeeding in concluding it may apply to the Reparation Commission and request it to accelerate the conclusion of such Convention."" negotiations shall be undertaken, on the initiative of any of these States, within six months from the coming into force of the present Treaty with a view to the conclusion with any other of the said States of separate Conventions in conformity with the provisions of the present Treaty, and in particular of Articles 200 to 205.231: But Hungary, I would point out, is in a much better position than Austria. She is self-supporting in the matter of foodstuffs; she is by no means a bankrupt concern; she has not to buy, as Austria has, everything abroad, with a currency steadily depreciating. She can feed her own people and employ them as well. When the area of Pees is restored to her she will have her own coalfield, and a very good one too. Therefore, she will be in a much better position than her formerly more powerful neighbour. It is impossible, of course, to drop the reparation clauses altogether. That would be tantamount to admitting that Hungary does not share equally with her Allies the responsibility and guilt of the war.233régime232" At the end of this period any State which has requested such a Convention without succeeding in concluding it may apply to the Reparation Commission and request it to accelerate the conclusion of such Convention."" negotiations shall be undertaken, on the initiative of any of these States, within six months from the coming into force of the present Treaty with a view to the conclusion with any other of the said States of separate Conventions in conformity with the provisions of the present Treaty, and in particular of Articles 200 to 205.231EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
248: My Lords, I perhaps ought, out of respect for the noble Lords who have addressed you with so much authority, to say a few words in reply. The speech of the noble Viscount, Lord Bryce, delivered with his usual fulness of knowledge and experience, was, of course, a very formidable attack upon the Treaty itself. It was not an attack on the Bill now before the House. It was not an attack upon the Foreign Office in London. It was an attack upon the statesmen who, in Paris two years and more ago, drew up this Treaty. I am no more familiar than the noble Lord with all the various reasons and considerations that prevailed with them on that occasion. But I must confess that I see some danger in a situation where, a decision of this sort having been arrived at after consideration far more careful than any of us could possibly give to the case, any noble Lord, even with the great authority of the noble Viscount, is at liberty to come down to this House and sketch out how he would have made the Treaty and how
248EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
250: No; in the Magyar area to which I refer. Take the case of Ruthenia. The noble Viscount was very confident that the Ruthenians were dissatisfied with their present position. He may have superior information to that which comes to me, but that is not our information at the Foreign Office. They have been given autonomy. They have a separate existence. It is true it is part of the Czecho-Slovakian State, but I have no reason to suppose that they are burning to go back to the country or the
250EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: As the noble Earl has appealed to me perhaps he will allow me to explain what I meant. I had endeavoured to show the House that I conceive, as everybody, I think, conceives who embraces the principles of nationality and at the same time understands the conditions of Central Europe, that it was necessary to take large territories away from Hungary, that a great part of Transylvania, part of Northern Hungary and part of South-western Hungary had to be taken away from Hungary. All the criticism I have ventured to make was that in doing so many areas were taken from Hungary which need not have been taken, but could have been left to her, if a more careful examination of details had been made, and if more attention had been given to the geographical and historical conditions which had connected these parts with the Hungarian race, and had not connected them with the other races to whom they now have been allotted. I hope I have made clear to the noble Lord what I meant.VISCOUNT BRYCE
245244243242plébiscite241240239fait accompli: My Lords, this Treaty is submitted to us as a 245244243242plébiscite241240239fait accompliVISCOUNT BRYCE
: I thought I had made clear from the first what I have now said.VISCOUNT BRYCE
: Not in Pressburg.LORD NEWTON
238237régime236235234: My Lords, the speech delivered by the noble Earl the Leader of the House was marked by his customary lucidity and eloquence, but I confess I can only regret that it Las not altered the opinions which I previously expressed as regards the character of the Treaty. I do not propose to waste the time of the House in recounting the objections which I have already made here. But there arc certain questions dealt with by the noble Earl upon which l desire to make sonic comment. First of all, I must again draw attention to the question of the delay in the ratification of this Treaty. I have no hesitation in saying—and I believe everybody will agree with me—that the delay in the ratification of this Treaty has been little less than disastrous.238237régime236235234LORD NEWTON
: Will the noble Earl say whether that includes CzechoSlovakia?LORD PHILLIMORE
247parvenu246: My Lords, as I gave some slight assistance to my noble friend, Lord Newton, in pressing forward this question of ratification, I should like to take this opportunity of saying that did not do so because I felt I that the Treaty was a good one, but because I felt that, the Treaty having been concluded, it was best for Hungary that it should be ratified as soon as possible, and that tier soil should be free from occupation by Armies of other nations. I remember that when the Treaty of Versailles came before your Lordships' House the noble Earl, Lord Curzon of Kedleston, expressed, or seemed to show, some feeling of surprise—at which did not wonder—that so very few noble Lords addressed the House on that occasion. If I remember rightly, only Lord Buck-master and Lord Bryce did so. I had thought of saying something, but I felt appalled by the task; I felt that it was hopeless at that stage endeavouring to undo anything that that Treaty had done, and that criticism at the moment would do more harm than good. I feel the same about this Treaty, but I should like to add one or two words, because I cannot think that these boundaries will remain aad stand the test of time.247parvenu246LORD PHILLIMORE
223: My Lords, before the noble Earl replies might I ask one or two questions upon matters of fact. I think he stated that to liquidate the debt of £6,600,000,000 in thirty years would take £400,000,000 annually. He said that was a liability which Germany could not bear at the present time, and that all the liability she was to be asked to hear at present was £100,000,000 a year plus 26 per cent, of her foreign trade. What I want to ask is: Will the difference between the £400,000,000 and the £100,000,000 plus 26 per cent. of the foreign trade be an accumulating liability against Germany? I ask for this reason. We all desire a final settlement—I agree with what the noble Earl said about the final settlement of this question—but it seems to me very difficult to have a final settlement if you leave the figures under such conditions that a liability is mounting up against Germany which, according to the noble Earl's view as I understand it, it would be impossible for Germany to meet. If he would give any further information on that point, I should be very pleased, because I am one of those who think that the settlement of this matter is of essential and immediate importance, and to no country more than to England itself.223LORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, I rise to ask His Majesty's Government whether they will state the terms of reference to the Military Court of Inquiry now sitting in reference to the Castleconnell shooting, and whether the findings of the Court will be made public.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
264: My Lords, while thanking the noble and learned Lord for the answer which he has given, perhaps I may be allowed to say that, of course, I agree with him to the utmost extent in deploring and condemning the appalling campaign of assassination which is being carried on in Ireland. I took no part in bringing any charge against either
264THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, I will only say a few words on the subject of the Bill of which the noble Lord has moved the Second Reading. It is a Bill for which my right hon. friend promised to give facilities as a Private Bill in the House of Commons, and the Government are in sympathy with the object it has in view. The noble Lord has mentioned the fact that the Bill has been carefully framed so as not to apply to legitimate sport, and so that it shall not apply to anything but meetings at which captive birds are liberated for the purpose of being shot at the time of their liberation. It only applies to that, and I do not think I need say anything more, except that the Govern-went are in favour of its terms.THE. PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: My Lords, the noble Lord has referred to the fact that, to my regret, I had to oppose the Bill of last year, but I hope that will not prevent me joining with him in supporting the Second Reading of the present measure. He has been good enough to ask me to discuss particular points with him. There are certain matters which may have to be considered in Committee, not concerned with the principle of the measure, but aimed at getting the Bill more in accordance with the practice of Private Bill legislation. I have drafted those Amendments and will put them down either this evening or to-morrow. I hope the noble Lord will not take the Committee stage before Whitsuntide as the delay will give us an opportunity of discussing these Amendments. I think we shall have no difficulty in agreeing upon them. I will not trouble your Lordships with the details of the Amendments, and, subject to that point, I support the Second Reading of the Bill.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL. OF DONOUGHMORF)
: My Lords, I have one small and purely verbal Amendment to move at this stage.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
personnel: My Lords, before an answer, is given to my noble friend, I should like to say one word in support of the appeal which he has made, in view of the fact that this Commission is to inquire into a question which is calculated to affect the interests of the agriculturists of this country more materially than any question of a similar character that has arisen during the last forty years. My argument would simply be this: that farmers are traditionally and notoriously incapable of stating their case, however convincing that case may be. For that reason, if for no other, I venture to suggest that a fair decision cannot be arrived at by this Commission unless the case is stated by counsel who are used to assembling facts and to presenting a case in a convincing way such as will appeal to the judicial minds which will fortunately be exercised amongst the personnelLORD BLEDISLOE
: My Lords, might I, as a member of the Royal Commission, state that the Commission meets informally for the first time to-morrow morning at half-past eleven, and this question which is raised by the Motion is one of the matters which the members will discuss. It is rather difficult to have the procedure of a Royal Commission laid down in the manner in which the noble Lord suggests. In fact, I am doubtful whether there has ever been a case of a Royal Commission where a member of one House of the Legislature has dictated, or laid down, the procedure which the Commissioners ought to adopt in carrying out the functions which His Majesty has bestowed upon them.LORD ASKWITH
280: My Lords, perhaps I might be allowed to add one word, as Lord Askwith has put before your Lordships in his capacity as a member of this Royal Commission his view of the proper procedure. I think, as a matter of fact, and I do not know that the noble Lord is likely to differ from me, that it must be an advantage to the Royal Com.
280THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
282: My Lords, I may say at the very beginning, as the noble Marquess has just said, that this short debate may be of some use to Lord Finlay, and other members of the Royal Commission, when they come to discuss the question of procedure as to whether it would be desirable or not for the parties interested to be represented by counsel. So far as the Ministry is concerned, I regret to say that we have not thought it right or proper that we should interfere. The matter has been gone into very carefully, and in a case like this it would be an entire departure from custom for the Ministry, or anybody else for that matter, to lay it down how the Royal Commission should act in this regard. It has almost, invariably been the custom that a Royal Commission makes its own rules as to procedure.282THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: My Lords, I do not think that the bringing of lawyers into the case would tend to expedition in any way. The Royal Commission is made up of men of ability, who are very well known, and in my opinion they are quite capable of examining the witnesses and getting through their business as quickly as possible. I do not see any reason for altering the usual procedure. Lawyers may bring out some points which otherwise would not be brought out, but whether they would be necessary points and very germane to the question I have my doubts. My own view is that they would muddle the Royal Commission, and can very well be done without.LORD CAWLEY
: My Lords, may I say at once that I have no wish to press the Motion. As the noble Marquess explained, we have no desire to put any pressure upon the Royal Commission, but only to ventilate the subject and let the Commission be aware, publicly, of our feelings in this matter. In fact, I have had an opportunity of speaking to the noble Viscount who will preside over the Commission, and I told him that I would not bring the Motion forward if he had any objection to my doing so. He said that, on the contrary, he had no objection at all to the matter coming before your Lordships' House, in order that it might be before the public and thoroughly ventilated. I was glad to hear the noble Earl, who represents the Ministry of Agriculture, state just now that he had made representations to the Royal Commission, and I hope it was on lines which will be generally acceptable to the agricultural interests which he represents in this House.LORD STRACHIE
: I do not wish to be misinterpreted. All I did was to write to the Chairman of the Commission to say that there were certain societies anxious to be represented by counsel, and that I thought he ought to know that. I made no representations as to what he should do.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I did not wish to imply that, but only that the noble Earl had expressed an opinion showing what agricultural opinion was.LORD STRACHIE
285: My Lords, I fear that the mistake in the Question of the noble Lord is not confined to the single misprint to which he referred in the remarks to which we have just listened. The next meeting of the Council of the League of Nations will not take place, as is stated in the Question, in September, but in the month of June. It is the meeting of the Assembly which takes place ill September next. Of course, I realised that when the Question speaks of the Judges of that body the noble Lord meant the election of Judges by that body; and what he was referring to was the provision in Articles 3 and 4 of the Statute of the Permanent Court that those Judges, fifteen in number, shall be elected by the Assembly and the Council—the two are mentioned together—from a list of persons to be nominated by the national groups of the Hague Court of Arbitration.285THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
: I have to thank the noble Earl very much for the careful reply which he has given to this Question, and which, I am sure, will satisfy a number of people who are very anxious on the subject.LORD WEARDALE
: My Lords, this little Bill is quite different from the measure which came before your Lordships last session. It has, indeed, been altered to give effect to the criticisms made at that time. The objection to the Bill of last year was that the proceeds of a penny rate, levied in a locality, might be used for the purpose of advertising outside that locality. That Bill was supported by the Government, but when it came to your Lordships' House it was met by powerful opposition. It was pointed out that its provisions were against the practice of Private Bill legislation which had been observed in this House, and the noble Earl, the Lord Chairman, opposed it on that ground. I am glad to believe that the Lord Chairman is willing to support the Second Reading of this Bill, although he may have sonic objection on matters of detail in regard to Committee points.LORD EMMOTT
: With regard to the point mentioned by the Lord Chairman I will, of course, put down the Committee stage for some date after Whitsuntide convenient to bins, and I shall be grateful to him if he will confer with me and particularly with those who are the real supporters of this measure.LORD EMMOTT
: No it will not.LORD LAMBOURNE
269268: My Lords, I beg to move the Second Reading of this Bill. I earnestly hope that your Lordships may approve of it and give it your unanimous consent. It is a small Bill of one clause. The object of it is to do away with trapped bird shooting as at present practised, and, of course, principally with pigeon shooting. I move this Bill because pigeon shooting at the present time is not a real sport. It gives rise to possibilities of great cruelty and is extremely offensive to a great proportion of the British public who are essentially sporting in the best sense of the word. I always think that the best definition of sport is one in which the quarry has an opportunity of escape, and it should have a fair chance of escape. In this case I cannot find that the bird liberated, especially the pigeon, has a fair chance of escape. It cannot rise when or where it pleases, nor use in any way its natural instinct to escape.269268LORD LAMBOURNE
: My Lords, the Bill of last year was thrown out on my Motion by a majority of thirty-eight to twelve. I have looked up the OFFICIAL REPORT and I find that it was expressly explained that the objection to that Bill was that a penny rate was placed on local authorities. The present measure endeavours to meet the objections which were raised and to place the expenditure upon the amenities which may be run in any health resort. I do not, therefore, propose to offer any objection to it, but shall support the Second Reading.LORD ASKWITH
: My Lords, I shall have great pleasure in supporting the Second Reading. The noble Earl, the Lord Chairman, has intimated his intention of putting down some Amendments. I will not anticipate their nature, but I hope he will be more kind to my noble friend than he was to me last year.LORD SOUTHWARK
: Then it ought, for I do not see that there is any difference between the two practices. As a matter of fact, it is probably easier on the whole to kill these birds than it is to kill a pigeon at thirty yards rise. We are asked to legislate because this particular form of sport is an illegitimate sport. Here we at once get into difficulties. For my part, I am not at all sure what a sportsman is. A man who rides a steeplechase is a sportsman. A man who shoots big game is a sportsman. A man who goes up in an aeroplane and ventures to descend several thousand feet by means of a parachute is a sportsman. So also is the man who will pass hours and days watching a billiard match, or a cricket match, which take almost as long to finish as a Bill does to pass through Parliament. The mean who will go into a barber's shop and back at starting prices horses which he has never seen, is looked upon as rather a meritorious sportsman, and the kind of sportsman who meets with much admiration is the man with any amount of money who spends fabulous sums in buying yearlings, or two-year olds, with the anticipation that it will some day help him to a position in society, and perhaps enable him to obtain a seat in this House.LORD NEWTON
273272271roulettetrente et quarante270: My Lords, I do not rise for the purpose of moving the rejection of this Bill, for two reasons. In the first place, I am quite aware that it would not be of the slightest use to do so, and in the second place, I do not for one moment desire to appear' as an apologist for, or an admirer of, pigeon shooting. But I must confess that it strikes me that we are, perhaps, in danger of making ourselves somewhat ridiculous over this Bill. Looking round the House, small as the attendance is, I expect I am not far wrong in assuming that pearly every Peer present has at one time in his life taken part in pigeon shooting. I remember very well on a former occasion that no less a person than the most rev. Primate admitted (not, I thought, without a touch of conscious pride), that he was the possessor of a cup which he had won at pigeon shooting in his youth—a cup, I trust, not won at Monte Carlo, but in all probability at some seat of learning. I might also remark that the connection of the Church with pigeon shooting is closer than might generally be supposed, because, if I am not mistaken, the Gun Club grounds were the property of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners.273272271roulettetrente et quarante270LORD NEWTON
: Hear, hear.NOBLE LORDS
: I am sure that your Lordships and the country generally will hear with relief of the conclusion which has been reached by the absolutely unreserved acceptance by Germany of the terms that were agreed on at the last Conference in London and presented to Germany. It is unnecessary now to dwell on the relief which many of us feel in the fact that no further armed occupation of any part of Germany will occur. We developed, during the debate we had in the House, our strong sense of the misfortune to the whole of Europe which such a further occupation would be, and it is therefore an extreme-relief that it has been averted. In particular, as the noble Earl will recall from what I said on the last occasion, the absolute and unconditional agreement by Germany to proceed with the complete measure of disarmament which has been demanded is in the highest degree satisfactory. There is no part of the Treaty of Versailles regarding which it was more necessary that the obligation should be carried out to the full.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, with reference to this Bill I beg to move the Motion which stands on the Paper in my name dispensing with the Sessional Order. There are special circumstances in connection with tins Bill which, I think, entitle me to make this Motion. I am assured that the Bill will be unopposed and that it is decidedly in the public interest that it should be passed as soon as possible.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUCHMORE)
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion standing in my name on the Paper.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES
: My Lords, I understand that the noble Earl, the Foreign Secretary, has some statement to make relating to the acceptance which has been made by Germany of the terms arranged at the Allied Conference, and I trust therefore that he will be willing to make it.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, Lord Muir Mackenzie has given Notice, in the event of a Message being received from the Commons concurring in their Lordships' message of Thursday last to move, "That a Committee of Five Lords he appointed to join with a Committee of the House of Commons to consider all Consolidation Bills in the present Session." That Message having been received, I beg to make the Motion on behalf of the noble Lord, who is illTHE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, I beg to ask leave to postpone the Committee stage of this Bill as I understand the opponents of the measure have some Amendments which they desire time to prepare.LORD LAMBOURNE
: My Lords, may I ask the noble Earl whether the Government is prepared, as soon as possible, to appoint the Boundary Commissions which, under the Treaty, are to be appointed to settle finally the boundaries of Hungary? In M. 1fillerand's Note to the Hungarian Government great stress was laid on the work that these Commissions might perform in mitigating some of the ethnical and economic grievances of Hungary, and it would be of great value if His Majesty's Government could give an assurance that these Commissions will get to work as soon as possible, in order that some of the hardships inflicted upon Hungary under the Treaty may be removed.LORD SYDENHAM
: Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a Third time.EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
296: My Lords, I find difficulty in giving a definite reply to the noble and learned Lord, for the reason that I am not personally familiar with the cases to which he refers. I attach great weight to his representations, and will look into the matter at the Foreign Office. With regard to the question of Lord Sydenham, I think the noble Lord was not here when I moved the Second Reading of the Bill and alluded to the particular concession made by the Allies, and announced to the Hungarian Government in the letter of M. Millerand, to which reference has been made, with regard to possible modifications of the frontier. The noble Lord will be aware that the. Boundary Commissions cannot he appointed until the Treaty has been ratified and conies into operation. We have been taking the final stages for ratification. There remains ratification by the French Government which, I hope, will not be long postponed. I heard only yesterday, somewhat to my surprise, that the Japanese Government have not yet ratified the Treaty. For what reason I do not know.296EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: My Lords, it is with pleasure that I inform the House that this morning the German Ambassador in London called upon the Prime Minister and handed to him, as the President of the last meeting of the Allied Conference which assembled in London only a week or two ago, the following statement on behalf of the new German Government which has now been formed, and that statement I will now read: —THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
293: My Lords, it will be my duty to-morrow to move the suspension of Standing Order No. XXXIX in order to enable all the stages of the Bill with regard to the retire
293EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
"That this House approves the Scottish Board of Health (Midwives (Scotland) Act Transfer of Powers from Secretary for Scotland) Order, 1921, presented the 22nd day of February, 1921.": My Lords, in accordance with the provisions of section 8, subsection 3, of the Scottish Board of Health Act, 1919, I beg to move to resolve, "That this House approves the Scottish Board of Health (Midwives (Scotland) Act Transfer of Powers from Secretary for Scotland) Order, 1921, presented the 22nd day of February, 1921."LORD STANMORE
295: My Lords, may I also ask the noble Ear] one question? The reason why this Bill has to come before Parliament at all is that it deals with questions of private property and—I will not use the word confiscation— with certain interferences with ex-enemy property. Many cases have come to my notice in which there is great hardship. I am aware that these cases have been recognised to some extent, but that recognition does not seem to have gone far enough. I am not speaking in an antagonistic spirit; but it is a matter which may remove friction, if it could be dealt with in a kindlier and more generous spirit. No country is more interested in preserving the ordinary
295LORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, your Lordships are familiar with the nature of this Bill, which has passed through the other House, and to which your assent is now desired. The operative clause is the first, which provides that the late Speaker shall receive an annuity of £4,000 during his natural life. On general grounds I have no doubt that many of your Lordships, who served under the Speakership of Mr. Lowther in the House of Commons, will agree with me in saying that this is a Bill which will receive public assent generally. I shall move the Second Reading of the Bill, and then ask your Lordships to take it through the rest of its stages to-day.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: My Lords, the noble Lord has somewhat amplified his Question in the speech which lie has just addressed to the House, but as the Question stands I will take it part by part. As regards the first part, district Councils are empowered. under the Housing Act to enter into contracts for the erection of houses for the working classes. As regards the second part, as a rule the assistant overseer is not an officer of the district council. The noble Lord has been good enough to give further information as to the particular case which he had in his mind, and I should be very glad indeed to go into it. Perhaps it will be more convenient if he will give it me in writing, and I shall be very happy to have the matter examined, and then let him have a full reply with regard to the particular case.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: I beg to thank the noble Earl.LORD ABINGER
302: My Lords, I wish to ask His Majesty's Government whether they will be able to grant facilities for the passing of the Criminal Law Amendment Bill this session. I do so for two reasons. I have thought it necessary to wait until the last day before the holidays, hoping that some announcement might be made, because, although many private members of the other House wished to raise the matter, I did not want them to take action if the Government were going to do so. Then the provisions of this Bill have already passed through Second Reading three times in this House, and finally without a Division. I made two or three important concessions
302THE LORD BISHOP OF LONDON
: My Lords, so far as the Government are concerned the value of the Bill to which the right rev. Prelate refers is clearly and readily acknowledged. As the right rev. Prelate has stated, it has passed through this House with very little opposition, and finally, after certain concessions had been made, it may be said to have been accepted by your Lordships as an agreed measure. I am afraid that that does not quite dispose of the problem, because what has proved non-controversial in this House may perhaps become controversial elsewhere; but if the Bill should continue to maintain its non-controversial aspect elsewhere, the Government will gladly do its best, at a later stage in the session, to make an effort to pass it into law. At present, as Mr. Chamberlain, the Leader of the House of Commons, stated the other day, no very definite indication can be given owing to the fact that there is a considerably pressure on the time of the House of Commons, but if the right rev. Prelate can make certain that the Bill will be non-controversial, so far as I am concerned I hope there is very good reason for thinking that the Government may be able to give it facilities.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I am obliged to the noble Earl.THE LORD BISHOP OF LONDON
: My Lords, a Royal Commission will take place at five o'clock, after which the adjournment for the Whitsuntide recess will be moved. That Motion will provide that in the case of the Lord Chancellor being satisfied that there is any serious emergency he carries the possibility of summoning your Lordships in anticipation of the date to which the House stands adjourned.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
304: My Lords, I beg to make
304THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
310309308307ad hoc306: My Lords, in moving that this Report be now received, it may be of assistance to your Lordships, and to the further progress of business, if I state what has happened since the Bill was last before the House. Your Lordships will recollect that many members of the House, in dealing with a subject necessarily technical and unfamiliar, expressed apprehensions as to some of the provisions of the Bill. I promised that before the Report stage was reached I would take two courses, which I hoped might remove those apprehensions and give to those of your Lordships who took an interest in the subject opportunities for discussion with my own technical advisers. In the first place, I promised to circulate a Memorandum, drawn, so far as the nature of the subject permits, in popular language, explanatory of the main provisions of the Bill, and more particularly of those provisions with regard to which most obscurity seemed to prevail. The Memorandum took some little time to prepare. Printing in these days, as you know, is a somewhat lengthy operation, but by the exercise of diligence it was found possible to place it in your Lordships' hands before the House rose for the recess. I hope it will be proved that a perusal of it has saved time in the Chamber and removed many of the doubts and difficulties which were entertained.310309308307ad hoc306THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
311: My Lords, as one who has taken a deep interest in this subject I should like to express what I am sure many of your Lordships feel—namely, that your Lordships' House is under a deep debt to the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack for the immense pains which he has taken in putting this Bill into proper shape, and for the energy, and also for the tact, which he has exhibited in negotiating its difficult passage. The subject is essentially an enormously intricate one, and it is vain to hope that the Bill is one which can be readily or fully appreciated by the lay public. Speaking for myself, after a long experience of conveyancing, I am satisfied that this Bill will result in great benefit to the owners of land, and at the same time in great benefit to the public.311VISCOUNT HALDANE
312: My Lords, I should like to associate myself with the noble Viscount in expressing our thanks to the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack for the great courtesy and consideration with which he has treated us through the various stages of this Bill. He claimed no more than his due when he said that he has given us, at every stage of the Bill, all the time which it was in his power to give, and we are grateful to him for the Memorandum which he has circulated to us. I have read the whole of it, although I confess that I should be sorry to say how much I understood of it—I am afraid, extremely little—but I exercise the Christian virtue of faith, and feel confident that everything which the noble and learned Lord stated in that Memorandum was absolutely the fact.312THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: They are.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
313: I understood that he had alternative Amendments to propose, and it would be a pity to deal with them at this stage if the matter is to be left over for the Third Reading. I have every hope that upon the Third Reading your Lordships will be able to arrive at a definite, and I believe unanimous, conclusion. I am quite sure that the noble and learned Lord will feel that we have not been factious in the consideration which, as laymen, we have been
313THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: In reply to the noble Marquess, I only wish to say that I consider that the Bill has been very substantially improved in one or two material particulars by suggestions made by laymen in this House.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, all the Amendments in my name, front Clause 3 to Clause 101, are purely drafting. I have gone through them all with great care and answered all the reasons of various public bodies, notably the London County Council, and if it is to your Lordships' convenience I will put the Question that the Amendments on the Paper from Clause 3 to 101 inclusive be agreed to.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, the noble Lord has, very reasonably, asked me that the facilities which are at least as much to the advantage of the Government as to my noble friend's Union should be continued. The answer is, of course, that I very readily put them all at his disposal and I hope he will be good enough to resume his discussions with the least possible delay. I have no hesitation in asking my noble friend to obtain the leave of your Lordships to withdraw the Amendment which he has formally moved, because, as I have already said, there is very little doubt that an agreement which will completely satisfy the noble Lord will be reached. I know that that is the opinion of other noble Lords on this matter.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, I do not rise to take any exception to the course proposed, which seems to me to be a very reasonable one, but for the purpose of drawing your Lordships' attention to the fact that there are at least two points on the clause which the noble Lord has suggested which will give rise to very great controversy unless they are very carefully handled. One is the elimination, the striking out, of the proposal in the Lord Chancellor's clause to recognise that the public have certain rights which will have legal recognition on an enfranchisement. It is a fallacy to suppose that the public have nothing which can be called a right at the present time. True, it is not a legal right, but everybody who has had to do with commons knows that it is impossible to tell who the people of the commons are, whether they are the copyholders or whether they are people who are there by the leave or licence of the copyholders within their authority. The public has certain recognised practical rights and, if the noble Lord's clause passes, these will be extinguished. I need not say that will give rise to a tremendous amount of feeling all over the country.VISCOUNT HALDANE
quid pro quo328: My Lords, if I rightly understand the Amendments to Clause 102 which the Lord Chancellor has put on the Paper, it seems to me that they
quid pro quo328LORD PHILLIMORE
329: My Lords, I should like to say one word with reference to the proposal of Lord Dynevor, if I understand it rightly. I am very much opposed to anything like the enclosure of commons. I expressed that opinion on a former occasion. Do I understand that by subsection (2) of Lord Dynevor's proposal commons may be enclosed through the action of the council of the county or county borough in which the land is situate, "who by resolution may declare that it is in the public interest that the land in question or any part thereof shall be made available for development?"329LORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, I venture to deprecate going into detail upon the proposal at this stage. It would have been perfectly right if it had seemed good to your Lordships to do so, but the learned Lord Chancellor, acting in what I think was the general view of our Lordships, was careful not to explain in any detail the points involved. It would be very unfortunate, I think if we were to have a one-sided discussion on the subject at the present time. When the proper moment comes a very strong case may be made out for subsection (2) of Lord Dynevor's Amendment, but I am not going to discuss it now. I should be very sorry if an opinion were expressed adverse to it, and if your Lordships made up your minds on the subject before the case had been discussed.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: In agreeing to that, I should like to ask who are the parties who are to settle this clause? I think the parties chiefly interested are the members of the public themselves.LORD PARMOOR
: Certainly; of course they are.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I am only putting a caveat that the public will have to see that clauses of this kind are properly adjusted.LORD PARMOOR
: The Amendments to this clause and also to Clauses 126, 134 and 135 are drafting or consequential, and, therefore, I assume it is agreeable to your Lordships that I should move them together.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
337: I rise only to say that I am extremely grateful to the Lord Chancellor and to his advisers for the way in which they have considered my humble efforts on this clause. The
337LORD PHILLIMORE
: I should like to express my gratitude to my noble and learned friend on the Woolsack for having brought forward this Amendment. I was rather glad to hear what fell from him this afternoon, that, generally speaking, the advantage lay rather with the copyholder. He also added that any further proposal could be made in another place. I do not wish to delay your Lordships, but only to express my gratitude to my noble and learned friend for the Amendment.LORD DYNEVOR
: As I indicated just now, I accept this Amendment in principle. I would, however, ask the noble Marquess to move it in the following form—In line 20, leave out from the first "Parliament" to the end of line 26, and insert: (viii) "The Order shall not be made unless both Houses by Resolution approve the Draft, either without modification or with modifications to which both Houses agree; but upon such approval being given the Order may be made in the form in which the Draft has been approved."THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I will move it in that form.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My first Amendment to this clause is drafting.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
350: My Lords, I am sure we have heard with much interest the very forcible speech delivered by the noble Lord, and I think that I shall not be in the least presumptuous in saying that I think he made out a fairly good case. Unfortunately, I do not think he put the whole case before your Lordships. He talked a great deal about the enormous expense to which landowners would be put under these Regulations. I do not think that is the case. In all these improvements which are carried out by the tenant at the tenant's cost, the tenant, when he quits the holding, will not be able to recover from the landlord any of the money which he has spent upon "improvements" if those "improvements" are not improvements at all. For instance, if he has reclaimed waste land on which nothing will grow the tenant will not get a halfpenny. The noble Lord never told us that, arid therefore I think a great deal of the charge which has been made by the noble Lord falls to the ground.350THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: They are in a minority.LORD STRACHIE
351: That may be so, but they are very strongly represented, and, the Advisory Committee having approved them, these Draft Regulations were laid according to law upon the Table of the House. As your Lordships are aware, Lord Clinton in this House objected to those Regulations, and Captain Pretyman and, I think, one or two other Members objected in another place. It was in order to try to keep the peace and make things go smoothly that the Ministry decided to withdraw the Regulations and consult with those Peers and honourable Members in another place as to which of those Regulations they objected. A meeting was
351THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Who withdrew the opposition?VISCOUNT CHAPLIN
354s353352"My chief objection related to the inclusion of silos, but I think in addition some limit should be placed upon the compensation to be paid for land reclamation.": Captain Pretyman and Sir Beville Stanier. Lord Clinton was unable to be present at the meeting, but he wrote to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry as follows:—
354s353352"My chief objection related to the inclusion of silos, but I think in addition some limit should be placed upon the compensation to be paid for land reclamation."THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I did not say that. I said to have to cement or build one.LORD STRACHIE
: Oh, but it goes further. How many tenants are going to cement the bottom of their pond? Not very many. I will give an instance which occurred to myself. I was tenant of a farm, and my buildings were short of water. I attempted to get water much nearer to the farm, and in order to do it I cut out a ditch in which there was plenty of water to a smaller pond. I dug about a quarter of a mile to get the water, and when I had spent a great deal of money on it I got a "swallow-hole,'' where some of the limestone comes to the surface, and all the water disappeared into the rock. In circumstances like those, under the Draft Regulations, I should not have got a shilling of compensation, for the improvement was no improvement. I am giving this instance to show that in many instances it is in the landowners' interest that the Draft Regulations as they stand at the present moment should be passed. I most heartily hope that, considering how necessary in certain cases some of these things are, your Lordships will think twice before you throw out these Draft Regulations.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
355: My Lords, I have listened with great attention to the speech of my noble friend in seeking to justify these Regulations, but I must confess that he has not convinced me as to the necessity or justice of them. I do not rest my remarks for one moment on the question as to whether this is a Land Union Bill or a Farmers' Union or a Landowners' Union Bill, but I ask your Lordships to look at it on the simple plain facts which are before
355VISCOUNT GALWAY
: No, I did not.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
356: It sounded like it. However that may be, it is a very dangerous thing to touch the water supply of a farm and to leave it to a tenant fanner to deal with, because he may not only not get a supply for himself but may ruin the previous source of supply.356VISCOUNT GALWAY
358357: My Lords, in asking your Lordships' permission to say a very few words on the Motion which is before the House I feel I ought to make an apology. I have been absent for three weeks or more under medical advice and I have only just. returned to London after a journey of eighteen hours, for which I do not feel much better. But this is a. subject in which I always have been, and always shall be, so deeply interested that I cannot refrain from expressing my objections not only to these particular Regulations but to the system which has been gradually set up under the Ministry of Agriculture and the Coalition Government as at present constituted, by which it is sought, apparently, to make agriculture successful again in this country by constant interference on the part of the Ministry and by Committees and other means with the business of the fanner who knows infinitely more about it than the people who are endeavouring to teach him. I shall not deal in any detail with the speeches that
358357VISCOUNT CHAPLIN
: My Lords, after coining from Australia where the State is the landlord in most instances and other landlords are a very small factor, the first thing that strikes me is the enormous mono ant that the English landlord does for an ungrateful tenant. I do not see how such Regulations as are proposed can be anything but detrimental. It is all very well to say that if the improvement is not worth this sum the landlord would not have to pay it, but in the case of a vast number of tenants their great aim and object is to get their property ready for the landlord at the end of the lease. They wish to get all they can out of it before they hand it back. This proposal would enable the tenants to do many acts which, though they might not be of any benefit to the property, would nevertheless be held to be an improvement, and the landlord would then have to pay for the value of the improvement, though it might be no real improvement whatever to the property.LORD CLIFFORD OF CHUDLEIGH
: That. is not the case.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: It may not be the case so far as the proposition goes, but I know the way that these things work out in practice. InLORD CLIFFORD OF CHUDLEIGH
: The Amendments in my name to the Second Schedule are drafting.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion standing in my name.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: My Lords, there is no business on the Paper for to-morrow, and, subject to your consent, I suggest, therefore, that we should adjourn till Tuesday next, except for judicial business.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: My Lords, I desire to ask whether the Government are taking steps to ensure that parties who were eye-witnesses of the Castleconnell shootings, and who have publicly expressed their willingness to give evidence, should be examined; and whether, in this view, the Resolution of the House in favour of an impartial Inquiry can be regarded as having been carried out in an Inquiry which omitted to call independent eye-witnesses who are known to have been present, and to be willing to give evidence.LORD MORRIS
: If any other noble Lord wishes to make any observation upon this matter, I will gladly postpone my answer until I have had the advantage of being apprised of any further view that may be held.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
: The Court of Inquiry.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
368367366365:My Lords, the noble Lord who asked this Question, as he was fully entitled to do, contented himself with putting it, and my noble and learned friend who has just sat down has not added anything which ought to have the effect of making any further discussion upon it provocative. Let me first deal with the actual terms of the Question. The noble Lord asks "whether the Government are taking steps to ensure that parties who
368367366365THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I am much obliged to the noble and learned Lord. Of course, after a Court of Inquiry has been held I recognise the difficulty of seeking in any sense to re-open a matter of this kind, but I noticed that in what the Lord Chancellor said he used some expressions with reference to my brother, which I hope that perhaps, on further consideration, he may think it well not to press. He suggested that the conditions were such that my brother might have been mistaken, or that his nerves might have been affected. Any one who knows my brother, and particularly his surgical experience, would, I think, hardly believe him open to such a suggestion. On the same day there was a discussion in the House of Commons, raised, I think, by Captain Wedgwood Benn, and the Attorney-General expressed the opinion that if the military authorities in Ireland would do so he would advise that the matter might be re-opened. I am not very much in favour of re-opening an Inquiry. It is a very different thing from taking evidence in the first instance, because a full impartial inquiry could hardly be held in the absence of witnesses who appear to me to be essential witnesses. I do not desire on this occasion to say anything further, particularly of a provocative character. I regret that this evidence was not called, because I think it would have led to the Court of Inquiry having impartial witnesses before it, and that would have been of great value if we are to regard the Report of the Court as satisfactory.LORD PARMOOR
364: My Lords, I wish to make one or two observations, and, in accordance with the Lord Chancellor's suggestion, I am quite willing to make them now. Being desirous of doing nothing which may be provocative in reference to a matter which seems to me to be one of a judicial character rather than one of controversy, it would be unbecoming of me to repeat what I have already stated as regards the Castleconnell outrage. I could not trespass a second time upon your Lordships'
364LORD PARMOOR
"The continued cessation of work in coal mines on the 27th day of May, 1921, having constituted, in the opinion of His Majesty, a state of emergency within the meaning of the Emergency Powers Act, 1920, His Majesty has deemed it proper, by Proclamation made in pursuance of the said Act, and dated the 27th day of May, 1921, to declare that a state of emergency exists.": My Lords, I have to submit this Message from the King—
"The continued cessation of work in coal mines on the 27th day of May, 1921, having constituted, in the opinion of His Majesty, a state of emergency within the meaning of the Emergency Powers Act, 1920, His Majesty has deemed it proper, by Proclamation made in pursuance of the said Act, and dated the 27th day of May, 1921, to declare that a state of emergency exists."THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: My Lords, I ask leave to introduce a Bill dealing with the validity of Indian divorces, and beg to move that it be read a first time.THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
: My Lords, in moving that tins Bill be now read a third time, I have to acquaint the House that consent of His Majesty, and that of the Prince of Wales with respect to the Duchy of Cornwall, has been duly signified to this Bill. I do not think it will be necessary for me to add any observations to those I made on the Report stage of the Bill, except to say that, as I anticipated then, such points of difference as still existed have been happily adjusted.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
: This and the following Amendments to this clause are the result of the agreement between the Commons' Preservation Society and the Land Union, which I indicated was probable on the Report Stage, and which meets with the approval of the Minister of Agriculture. They may, therefore, I think, be regarded as completely non-controversial.The noble and learned Lord said
: I can only say in reply to my noble friend that I am most grateful to hint for what he has said. We have made a sincere attempt to meet the views of those whom he represents, and I think that in many points they have suggested improvements to the Bill. I very much hope that those influential representatives of the Land Union who sit in another place will give us as much sympathetic support as the noble Lord has given in this House.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I now move that the privilege Amendments be made.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
399398397396395: My Lords, before the noble Earl replies I should like to say a word or two with regard to the very interesting speech which the noble Lord, Lord Montagu, has made with reference to the frontier of India. While I was in India the Government of India were very much indebted to the noble Lord for his expert assistance in connection with roads and motor transport. But I cannot help thinking, if he will permit me to say so, that he is rather apt to look at these things through his motor goggles. There are many other items of expenditure on which the military authorities in India
399398397396395VISCOUNT CHELMSFORD
405404sonnel403402personnel401400: My Lords, the Question raised, as every speaker has admitted, is extremely interesting and important. There are, of course, one or two aspects of it which I am debarred from discussing by military reasons, and I. am sure the noble Lord will be the first to appreciate this. That applies also to the question of our present Mission to Afghanistan, which is not raised directly by the Question, and on which I am not able to give him at this moment any information. The immense advantage we derive from the presence of Lord Chelmsford in this House and the authoritative speech he has just made relieve me of the necessity of replying to a number of points raised in the debate. I have not the advantage of being personally acquainted with the country and can only give to the noble Lord the information I have obtained from the Department with regard to the points specifically referred to in his Motion.405404sonnel403402personnel401400THE EARL OF LYTTON
: My Lords, I beg to thank the noble Earl for his most interesting reply to my Question, and also to join with him in thanking Lord Chelmsford for his most interesting speech, which, coming from such a source, was a matter of great gratification to us. Lord Chelmsford referred to my being apt to look at things through motor goggles. I suppose it was a perfectly legitimate comment. I will only reply by saving that when you are looking at the North-West frontier, and the equipment of armies, you have to look at those matters through very modern spectacles. It is no good thinking about bows and arrows. I am glad to hear that the Mahsud country has been taken over definitely, and I hope that it may be an augury of the taking over of other parts of the frontier later on. As regards the question of expenditure on frontier matters, I agree with the noble Lord who said you must cut your coat according to your cloth. The North-West frontier, however, is more important than any other military district in India, and it seems to me that some of the provision utilised in the rest of India might be economised, and more money spent on the frontier. I beg to thank noble Lords who have spoken, and the noble Earl who replied for the India Office for his remarks.MONTAGU OF BEAULIEU
410lathissub judice409408: My Lords, the deplorable incident at Nankana Saheb to which the noble Lord has referred was the result of a religious dispute between two sections of the Sikh community. It had no political significance, and the Government were in no way concerned in the matter, except to restore order and take such steps as might he necessary to prevent further bloodshed. They were in no way responsible for the casualties which occurred, and the suggestion that Government officials had any complicity in the matter was a mischievous libel (originating, I think, in Lajpat Rai's paper), which was afterwards withdrawn with apologies, although no doubt the purpose for which it was made—namely, to discredit the Government in the eyes of the Sikhs—had been accomplished before it was withdrawn and the apology made. I am sure
410lathissub judice409408THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I thank the noble Earl for his very clear statement, which will completely dispose of the charges to which I have referred.LORD SYDENHAM
: The Government has no objection to the Motion.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
390389388387386385384383382: My Lords, I rise now to ask His Majesty's Government what steps, military and civil, any being taken to provide for the efficient defence of the North-West frontier of India; and to move for Papers. In doing so I would like to thank your Lordships for allowing me to advance the Question to this afternoon, in order to meet the convenience of the noble Earl who represents the Government of India in this House. I need not apologise for raising the question of the North-West frontier of India. It has always been an important part of the Empire, and has increased in importance during late years owing to the fact that we have now to consider not only the question of the tribes on the frontier and a friendly or unfriendly Afghanistan, but the danger which may arise from a new kind of Russia beyond the North-West frontier more difficult to deal with than the Russia of the past.390389388387386385384383382LORD MONTAGU OF BEAULIEU
: My Lords, I beg to move that leave be given to advance to this day the Notice (relating to "the measures taken for the defence of the North-West frontier of India) which now stands for Wednesday the 8th of June next.LORD MONTAGU OF BEAULIEU
394crux393"His Majesty's Government in May last sanctioned the military occupation of the central portion of the Mahsud territory, together with the construction of roads, which experience has shown to be one of the most effective of pacifying influences."392391: My Lords, this Question is one of very great importance to the people of India and also to us who are responsible for their security against murder and robbery on a large part of the frontier of India. It was in 1849 that we annexed the Punjab, and then, in the words of Sir Alfred Lyall, "we carried our territorial frontier across the Indus right up to the foot of the Afghan hills." I fancy that the people who made that momentous decision very little realised at the time where it would lead us, and what it involved. But from that time onwards we have been always confronted with this great problem of the frontier tribes, and that problem has led to a very heavy total loss of life and treasure in the past.394crux393"His Majesty's Government in May last sanctioned the military occupation of the central portion of the Mahsud territory, together with the construction of roads, which experience has shown to be one of the most effective of pacifying influences."392391LORD SYDENHAM
" That an humble Address be presented to His Majesty, thanking His Majesty for His most gracious Message communicating to this House His Majesty's Declaration that a State of Emergency exists within the meaning of the Emergency Powers Act, 1920.": My Lords, I beg to move to resolve—
" That an humble Address be presented to His Majesty, thanking His Majesty for His most gracious Message communicating to this House His Majesty's Declaration that a State of Emergency exists within the meaning of the Emergency Powers Act, 1920."THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
416" That the Regulations made by His Majesty in Council under the Emergency
416: My Lords, I have now to move to resolve—
416" That the Regulations made by His Majesty in Council under the Emergency
416EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: My Lords, this Bill adds to the borough of Newcastle-under-Lyme the adjoining parishes of Clayton and Keele in order to allow for its extension. The housing site of the borough is in one of the added areas.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: My Lords, the two boroughs of Ossett and Wakefield are separated only by the township of Lupset into which Wakefield is rapidly extending. The Order adds most of Lupset to Wakefield, and the rest goes to Ossett.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: This Bill is one to confirm five Orders relating to Altrincham, Ashford, Barnes, Gillingham and Ramsgate. A local Inquiry has been held in each case and there is no opposition.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, in the interests of saving time I might say, in two or three sentences, that the Amendments which stand in my name are in a new form and have been substituted for those originally circulated. The reason is that my noble friend below the gangway has been good enough to allow me to discuss my Amendments with him. I desire to thank him for the spirit in which he met me. I think I am right in saying that he has given way upon one point to which he attached importance and that I have given way upon another, with the result that we are in agreement; and I will move the Amendments in this form feeling confident, that I have the concurrence of my noble friend in doing so.THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
: That is so.LORD EMMOTT
: I may say, on behalf of the promoters of the Bill, that I accept all the Amendments in the name of the noble Earl, and I am very grateful to him for the assistance which he has given me in regard to this matter.LORD EMMOTT
: I may explain to your Lordships that Scotland was put into this Bill at the request of certain Scottish authorities. It is quite evident, from what my noble friend who has moved the Amendmeat has just said, that the form of the clause in the Bill as presented is not satisfactory, and I accept the Amendment which he proposed.LORD EMMOTT
430Nisi Prius429428427426425424423: My Lords, I am glad to take the opportunity, which is afforded me by the Question of my noble and learned friend, to make a statement as to the position of business in the Supreme Court, The great importance of the matter to all classes of His Majesty's subjects cannot, of course, be questioned. Unhappily, it; cannot be denied that the facts are such as to cause grave apprehension to those who are principally responsible for the administration of justice in the Supreme Court.430Nisi Prius429428427426425424423THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
: My Lords, I cannot help thinking that the House would wish to express at any rate one word of acknowledgment of the valuable and interesting statement which the Lord Chancellor has made. That statement will be of very great interest throughout the country, and will be read in every quarter.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: Before the noble Lord in charge of the Bill answers, I should like to ask him to explain a point which is somewhat mysterious to me. In the course of the debate on the Second Reading I alluded to a practice which used to be fairly common, of taking so-called wild ducks, placing them in hampers or apparatus of some kind, and then liberating them and shooting at them, this being a practice frequently followed by so-called legitimate sportsmen, and probably frequently indulged in by Lord Lambourne himself. I am not sure that I have not helped to contribute towards his enjoyment of this particular kind of sport; but I assumed in the course of my speech that this practice would come to an end under the Bill. To my unbounded astonishment my noble friend interrupted me, and said, "No, it will not." The only comment which I desire to make upon this astonishing statement is that if the practice of shooting so-called wild ducks is going to be allowed to continue, this Bill is an even greater piece of hypocrisy than I credited it with being. I think it is imperative that we should have a definite explanation upon this point before we proceed further, because it is obvious to me that if you are going to except so-called wild ducks it is only fair that starlings and sparrows should be in the same category.LORD NEWTON
: I will leave the noble Lord, Lord Newton, to compose his strife with Lord Lambourne when that noble Lord replies but for the moment I should like to point out to him that, so far as this Bill is concerned, the question whether or not a wild duck is within its provisions depends entirely upon whether it is "liberated by hand or by trap, contrivance, or other means for the purpose of being shot at the time of liberation." If it be, then the practice will be stopped. If it be not, then the practice will continue, and I do not propose to offer any opinion whatever as to whether or not the practice is a wise or desirable one.LORD BUCKMASTER
440: May I say this in reply to the remarks of Lord Newton, that I can honestly state that the only time I have shot wild ducks in a peculiar position was at his place? Certainly I am not encouraged, after what I have heard, to continue the practice. As regards this Amendment moved by Lord Lanes-borough, I am rather at sea. I have not much experience in your Lordships' House, but really the whole of his remarks belonged to a Second Reading speech. I wish to try to keep in order as much as I can, and I will not attempt to answer all the questions which he raised, because they were debated in answer to a speech by Lord Newton on the Second Reading. On that occasion nobody moved the rejection of the Bill, though ample notice of the measure was given. The noble Earl who, I am quite sure, reads his Order Paper with extraordinary regularity every morning, must have seen the Notice given of the fact that this Bill was to be brought forward. He did not come down. I do not blame him. Why should he, if he did not want to do so? But there was no opposition at all, and the Bill passed its Second Reading. I then put it down as soon as I could, and in compliance with his wishes, and in compliance with what I understand is the custom in your Lordships' House, I postponed the Bill for some time at considerable inconvenience.440LORD LAMBOURNE
441: On behalf of the Government I should like to say I agree entirely with what Lord Lambourne says, that the Amendment is one of a wrecking nature. The object of the Bill is to prevent
441THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: At the risk of being considered importunate I confess I should like to have an answer to my question. So far none has been given. The noble Lord who introduced the Bill has given one version of it, and the noble and learned Lord opposite has given another. I must repeat that if under this Bill, so-called legitimate sportsmen are allowed to liberate wild ducks and shoot them—an offence which, I should like to say, I myself have not committed—this Bill is an instance of gross hypocrisy. If you allow so-called legitimate sportsmen to liberate so-called wild ducks it stands to reason that the vulgar sportsman ought to be allowed to do the same thing in his own way.LORD NEWTON
: Surely if you rear a lot of ducks, put them into a cupboard, let them out and they fly away over your head, it is the same thing as putting pigeons into traps, and, according to the Bill, it must, therefore, surely be illegal.THE EARL OF KIMBERLEY
442: The noble Earl has not explained the purpose of his Amendment, which is an attempt to evade the provisions of the Bill as passed
442LORD LAMBOURNE
: If those words were omitted the birds let loose would not be released from a trap; they would be thrown out. The omission of those words does away with the enclosing of them in traps.THE EARL OF LANESBOROUGH
: I cannot accept the Amendment.LORD LAMBOURNE
: This is another attempt to evade the provisions of the Bill. The birds might be turned out of a flowerpot or a basket. I cannot accept the Amendment.LORD LAMBOURNE
443: In regard to these penalties, the Bill has been very carefully drafted and the penalties are taken from the Protection of Animals Act,
443LORD LAMBOURNE
444The Times: I look upon this Amendment as an important one. I intend to support it, and I hope the noble Earl will go to a Division upon it. I do not know whether the attention of the noble Lord has been called to a letter appearing in 444The TimesLORD NEWTON
445: I agree to some extent with what Lord Newton said about demoralisation. I do not know that much demoralisation is involved in pigeon shooting, nor do I know that it is a matter for the intervention on that ground of anyone, whether the House of Commons or anyone else. But surely the question before the House at present is whether the House favours the shooting of birds from traps as a test of dexterity. No one alleges that it is sport, and I think there is a general sense all over England just
445LORD RIBBLESDALE
: After what has fallen from Lord Newton and Lord Ribblesdale, perhaps I may be permitted to express the view of the Home Office on this matter. The question is really one of enforcing a law. If this Bill becomes law, what penalty is necessary in order to enforce the law? The penalty of £25 and the option of imprisonment is the same, as was pointed out by the noble Lord, Lord Lambourne, as is provided for in the Protection of Animals Act, 1911, and in the Protection of Animals (Amendment) Act. I would like to point out that the penalty mentioned is only the maximum penalty. Smaller penalties can, of course, be imposed by Justices if they think the maximum penalty is unnecessary. But in such cases as those where a man continues to hold these shooting competitions, and to make money out of them, after he has been convicted, it is right that the Court should have the power to impose either a substantial fine, such as that which is here provided, or, if a substantial fine has noTHE EARL OF ONSLOW
: In view of the remarkable statement made by the noble Lord opposite that no single instance of cruelty has been vouched for by the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, may I, before we go to a Division, ask the noble Lord, Lord Lambourne, whether this is a Bill for the purification of sport, or whether it is a Bill to stop cruelty?LORD LAMINGTON
: It is a Bill for the purification of sport, and also for the prevention of cruelty. My Society have had numerous cases of cruelty. Some prosecutions have been successful in the past, and some have not.LORD LAMBOURNE
450b449448: My Lords, the Bill which I have to present this afternoon contains some of the housing clauses of the Ministry of Health (Miscellaneous Provisions) Bill which last year failed to secure the approval of your Lordships' House. The main provision in the Bill, which I will elaborate in a moment, was not one over which controversy arose. There were two important provisions in the Bill of last year—namely, (1), to facilitate the compulsory hiring of houses, and (2), to prohibit luxury building; and it will be within your recollection that considerable difference of opinion occurred on these points. They do not appear in the present measure, which does away with all prohibition on luxury building. If you will turn to the Memorandum which lies on the Table of the House the financial effect of the provisions involving charges on the rates will be found to be fully explained. The Memorandum was made available in April last. The clauses arc not numbered quite correctly, as Clause 4 should be Clause 3, and Clause 11 should be Clause 9. That is the result of having withdrawn Clause 1 while the Bill was in another place.450b449448THE EARL OF ONSLOW
457v: My Lords, this Bill is introduced to deal with a situation which has been created by the judgment of the President of the Divorce Court last March in tire case of Keyes 457vTHE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
: My Lords, in the course of his speech the noble Lord asked a number of questions which he did not put on the Paper and, if I may say so, answered a good many of them, because he proceeded to give your Lordships what seemed to be, so far as I could follow him, a very accurate account of the acreage of, and the amount of money paid for, the land of which this Heath Hill Colony consists, and as to which he wants particulars.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: If I may interrupt the noble Earl, I am asking for particulars and Papers for 1921. The details I have mentioned are in regard to 1920 only.LORD FORESTER
462s461ds460: What I meant was that the noble Earl has given us particulars of the price at which the farms and so on were purchased, and not of the losses. I was going to inform the House of those particulars, but not go into them. The farm and estate balance sheet for the year ending March 31, 1921, are in course of preparation, but are not yet completed. The loss incurred up to March 31, 1920, the latest date for which the
462s461ds460THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: My Lords, I can hardly regard the reply of the noble Earl as quite satisfactory. Apparently what has happened is that the Ministry has started this Colony and found that they cannot run it, except at an enormous loss, and now they are trying to hand it over to the County Council. I take it that they will let the County Council know as soon as they can do so what the loss on the working has been up to 1921. The noble Earl also did not answer my Question as to wiry they bought this additional land without having first done what is prescribed in the amended Act of 1918—namely, consulted the chairman of the County Council or some portion of the County Council.LORD FORESTER
463: My Lords, I cannot answer that immediately, because the noble Lord has given me no notice of it. I was under the impression that this Act gave the Ministry the power to acquire land for this purpose, and I was not aware that there was anything in the Act making it necessary for the Ministry to consult the county council interested before they purchased land. As the noble Lord did not give me notice of this particular matter I am unable to tell him precisely what happened. If it was necessary to consult the County Council, I have not at present any evidence as to what passed between the Ministry and the County Council on the subject.463THE EARL OF ANCASTER
status464: My Lords, the larger question, which was raised in the course of the last session, was whether there should be a re-examination, perhaps a revision, of many Ministerial salaries. This question was examined by a Committee which had numerous sittings and then made a Report, but the taking of any steps in the more particular matter of which the noble Marquess has so often been the mouthpiece in this House was postponed until there had been leisure to examine the Report of that Committee. The whole matter raises a number of subjects which, unfortunately, in the course of discussion, have not been found to be free from controversy, and it will certainly not be possible to present any Bill upon the general subject in the present session of Parliament. It is, as your Lordships know, the determination of Ministers not to have an autumn session this year unless wholly unforeseen and unforeseeable developments occur, and,
status464THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
: After the observations of the Lord Chancellor I do not wish to press my Motion.THE MARQUESS OF LINLITHGOW
: My Lords, I move that this clause be deleted.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
456455454453caveat452451caveat: My Lords, I am quite certain that there will be no wish in any part of your Lordships' House unduly to delay the passage of this Bill. The noble Earl said that in consequence of the action of your Lordships' House last year a certain amount of postponement of building had taken place. I do not think that any responsibility for that result lies at the door of the majority of your Lordships' House. On the occasion to which the noble Earl refers, we had to consider a very different Bill from that which he is now submitting for your Lordships' acceptance. It contained several clauses of a highly controversial character, and, notwithstanding the urgent suggestion of noble Lords sitting in an independent position in the House, the Government were not willing to postpone the controversial clauses. The consequence was that they lost their Bill. I do not wish to rake up tire embers of former quarrels, but only to enter a 456455454453caveat452451caveatTHE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I do not know whether the noble Marquess proposes to ask another Question, or whether it will be your Lordships' pleasure that he should make any speech or observations. Such a course would be very much opposed to the practice of your Lordships' House.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: Oh, no.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
"The result of passing this Bill will undoubtedly be to disturb the people—a singularly happy and contented people—and it will arouse in Burma a corresponding agitation to that which is running through India from one end to the other at the present time.""The Viceroy and Secretary of State declared their intention of deliberately disturbing the placid, pathetic contentment of the people."483: My Lords, I waited in case any other member of your Lordships' House had anything to say, because I have a right of reply only on the whole debate. If, however, no other member of the House wishes to speak, I desire to make one or two very brief remarks before the Motion that the Bill be read a second time is put. Three changes have taken place since this Bill was last before the House in March. We have had further communications from the Government of India, and the Government of Burma, and we have now the advantage of the presence in this country of the late Viceroy, Viscount Chelmsford, who, I am sorry to say, is not m his place this afternoon, but he has been present at the meetings of the Joint Select Committee and has been able to express in person the views of his Government A White Paper has been issued containing all the correspondence which has passed between the Government of India and ourselves on this subject, and, filially, the Joint Select Committee of both Houses have considered the whole correspondence and have issued their Report."The result of passing this Bill will undoubtedly be to disturb the people—a singularly happy and contented people—and it will arouse in Burma a corresponding agitation to that which is running through India from one end to the other at the present time.""The Viceroy and Secretary of State declared their intention of deliberately disturbing the placid, pathetic contentment of the people."483THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OP LYTTON)
469: I have no power to say that any noble Lord is out of order, nor would I ever take upon myself such responsibility, but I think that if the noble Marquess considers the matter he will take the view, which I
469THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: May I say, as the noble Marquess has appealed to me, that we have no desire not to hear what he wishes to say, but I am sure he will agree with me that there are many Peers interested in this subject as well as himself, who have had no notice of the Question, and obviously it would be better for everybody concerned that he should give due notice that he will discuss the matter, and other Peers will then take part in the discussion.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: Would not longer notice be more convenient for a Question of this importance?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I readily agree. There is very little business down for to-morrowTHE EARL OF CRAWFORD
479: My Lords, in the course of his interesting and very conscientious examination of the conditions in Palestine, the noble Lord has travelled over a considerably wider area than is indicated in the actual terms of his Question, and he will forgive me if, while noting the other considerations which were present to his mind, I cannot take the responsibility of attempting to answer them. The Commission of Inquiry which has been appointed to inquire into the causes and the circumstances of this outbreak has not, up to the present, concluded its labours The noble Lord has indicated a wide enough knowledge of the circumstances to know that no reasonable person could have expected that a very summary conclusion would be reached by the Commission, and the noble Lord, I imagine, would hardly think it either a useful or a usual course that its conclusions should be stated until they are presented in a complete form.479THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, I beg to thank the noble and learned Lord for what he has said. I would not for one moment press for anything which might not be in the public interest, but I think it is very unfortunate that this information, after a protracted and careful Inquiry by impartial people, is not to be published.LORD SYDENHAM
: I will see that the noble Lord's views are represented to the Colonial Office.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
"To ask His Majesty's Government whether, in view of the highly unsatisfactory, unsound and universally-condemned proposals of the Postmaster-General in regard to the alteration of postal charges, and with a view of advancing trade on sound and paying lines, they will consider reverting to penny postage and sixpenny telegrams.": My Lords, I am sure the commercial world will very much regret that it is necessary for the noble Lord to postpone discussion upon this Motion to-day. It is a very urgent matter, and postponement is much to be regretted. I may perhaps be allowed to say that I have placed a Question upon the Paper in the following terms:
"To ask His Majesty's Government whether, in view of the highly unsatisfactory, unsound and universally-condemned proposals of the Postmaster-General in regard to the alteration of postal charges, and with a view of advancing trade on sound and paying lines, they will consider reverting to penny postage and sixpenny telegrams."LORD SOUTHWARK
: I understand that the noble Lord asks leave to withdraw his Amendment.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: Then I will give Notice to move my Motion to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
470: The only reason why I want to raise it at once is the extraordinary procedure of the Government in not bringing a Question of this sort before the Houses of Parliament, but giving the information to private individuals. That is why I gave notice of my Question, on the distinct understanding that the usual practice would be allowed;
470THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
: I am in the hands of the House, and to whatever the Leader of the House says I am prepared to bow. The Leader of the House suggests that. I should put down a Motion. With the permission of the House I will put down a Motion for to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
: I repeat, that I am in the hands of the House. Of course, if the House—the noble Earl, Lord Crawford, who is leading the House, is present—says that I am not to be heard, I will not say another word, but I think that this is rather a new departureTHE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
: I have been a member of your Lordships' House for over half a century, and, on a Question, I have never known any opposition raised to any remarks being made Of course, I am entirely in the hands of the House, and if the Lord Chancellor says I am out of order I will not say another word.THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
: Of course, I am in the hands of the House, but I think this is rather a new precedent to bring forward.THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
: My Lords, there may be two opinions as to the wisdom of the course that His Majesty's Government have been pleased to adopt, but what I want to bring before your Lordships' House at once——THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
: My Lords, I desire to ask the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture a Question of which I have given him private notice. He was good enough to inform me that he was prepared to make a statement with respect to the somewhat startling announcement concerning the Agriculture Act which appeared in the newspapers of this morning, and I would ask whether he can do so nowTHE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
484: My Lords, I should like to say one word in reference to the remarks just made by the noble Earl, not for the sake of criticism, but for the sake of historical accuracy. He said that all parties are now unanimous in respect of this Bill. They are only unanimous, as I am told by a high authority, because the
484LORD LAMINGTON
468: My Lords, no doubt noble Lords will have seen the announcement which was in the papers this morning, relating to the Agriculture
468THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARYOF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: Yes.LORD SYDENHAM
482481: My Lords, I think it is my duty to withdraw my Amendment formally, but I would ask to be allowed to say a few words on this question. At the end of the last debate I asked the noble Earl whether, "if this Bill went to a Select Committee and that Select Committee altered in any way the form of the Government of Burma Bill, the Committee must accept the form described in this Bill—which is the form of diarchy—or would they have any right to consider or propose any alternative form." The noble Earl did not reply from
482481LORD SYDENHAM
: The noble Marquess is in error if he supposes that what the Lord Chancellor has just said involves a new departure. I have been for a long time a member of the House, and so far as my recollection serves me the House has never permitted debates to be raised on Questions asked before Business by private notice.THE MARQUESS OF LANSDOWNE
: What year was that?VISCOUNT PEEL
531: Twenty years or more ago. My noble friend, the Earl of Crawford, suggests forty years ago, and it is possible that it may have been as long ago as that. We are told that sixpenny telegrams are very costly to the State, but I would point out that the great expenditure incurred is in the delivery of telegrams at places a long distance from telegraph offices. I would therefore make the suggestion that a telegram handed in at any telegraph office shall be delivered in all cities and towns throughout Great Britain and Ireland at. a charge of sixpence, and that delivery to places outside the cities and towns should be subject to a mileage charge for delivery, as in days gone by. It is more profitable to deal with a large number of telegrams at a low price in one city than to deal with a few at a high price, and, therefore, I. contend that it. would be profitable to encourage the use of telegrams in cities and towns by allowing them to be sent at the charge of sixpence. I am not asking that my opinion should he taken in this matter, but am merely suggesting that as soon as this new Committee meets the Postmaster-General should ask its advice and assistance as to whether it is possible to revert to the cheaper postage and telegraph charges.531LORD SOUTHWARK
534533532: My Lords, I accept gratefully, on behalf of the Postmaster-General, the good wishes, congratulations and compliments which have been dealt out to him by my noble friend Lord Southwark. I suppose the noble Lord spoke those words in expiation of other words which he used about him. In his Question he accused the Postmaster-General of putting before the country "highly unsatisfactory, unsound, and universally condemned proposals." It would not be possible to use words more condemnatory of a Minister than those. The phrase "highly unsatisfactory and unsound" is in the nature of an adjective which he is entitled to use, and which, no doubt, expresses his own opinion. But I must take exception to the words "universally condemned," because that is a question of fact. These proposals, which he says are universally condemned, received the approval of a very large majority in another place after the explanation of the Postmaster-General, and, therefore, my noble friend is making an unwarrantable attack on another place in saving that proposals which were approved by that Chamber are universally condemned.534533532THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
508507: My Lords, in moving that the House do now resolve itself into Committee, perhaps I may be allowed to take advantage of this opportunity to reply to the questions which the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury, put to me the other day, and of which he truly said that some of them ere technical and required a certain amount of looking up. I will try to deal with all of them, except the question of dilution, which I will leave to my noble friend who represents the Ministry of Labour. The first question of the noble Marquess was in regard to the application of this Bill to Ireland. In reply, I would observe that the financial provisions of the Government of Ireland Bill will not come into operation until the administration of the Irish services is transferred to the Irish Governments.
508507THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: Is that in the north of England or Scotland?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
509: In the north of England. As to whether the Ministry think the tendency of prices is to fall, I may say that prices have been steadily falling for sonic time, and we hope the downward movement will continue. The noble Marquess devoted a considerable portion of his speech to the question of fixing rents. At present, in fixing rents, local authorities are required to take into consideration the prevailing rents of similar houses in the district, the value of any special amenities possessed by the new houses, the increases allowable under the Rent Restriction Acts, and the class of tenants in the district for whom the houses are provided. A large number of authorities have made returns, and information summarising these returns was laid before your Lordships in March last. That is the method by which rents are fixed to-day. But the noble Marquess dwelt more particularly upon the state of affairs as it may be in 1927, and he anticipated that unless some definite rulings were given at present considerable friction might then arise. Perhaps I may be able to reassure the noble Marquess upon that, to a certain degree at least.509THE EARL OF ONSLOW
" the position of housing schemes in regard to the supply of skilled labour is still serious. There is probably no scheme in the country on which the skilled labour engaged is adequate for the proper carrying out of the work already in hand, while in the majority of cases the number of houses under construction could be materially increased if an additional supply of skilled labour were available."511"Over 50 men have been taken on and have already started work under the scheme; 70 others have been allocated to employers in the London area and should be started to-day or to-morrow."510: My Lords, as indicated by my noble friend, Lord Onslow, I have certain information from the Ministry of Labour which I have
" the position of housing schemes in regard to the supply of skilled labour is still serious. There is probably no scheme in the country on which the skilled labour engaged is adequate for the proper carrying out of the work already in hand, while in the majority of cases the number of houses under construction could be materially increased if an additional supply of skilled labour were available."511"Over 50 men have been taken on and have already started work under the scheme; 70 others have been allocated to employers in the London area and should be started to-day or to-morrow."510THE EARL OF CLARENDON
: If you please.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
sssplussplus513512: The object of the scheme is to relieve unemployment among ex-Service men by providing training for them in the crafts of the building industry which require augmentation, particularly in view of the need for housing, and thus affording ex-Service men a career in an industry where there is opportunity for their services. The responsibility of the Government in the
sssplussplus513512THE EARL OF CLARENDON
515514: My Lords. I rise only to thank the noble Earl for the very full statement he has made on this experiment.. I am sure the country and your Lordships will watch with the greatest interest the development of this scheme, because it may mean a solution of the housing difficulty and the employment of ex-Service men. Both are matters to which the country is paying special attention at this moment. I gather from what the noble Earl has said that up to date the employment of ex-Service men under the scheme has been disappointing, and that only about 200 men are actually
515514THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I cannot quite say that. The same arrangement that obtains now will obtain in future, but the rents will be revised. The debit which falls on the Exchequer will remain after 1927, but the rents charged by the local authorities will he revised.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: They may be revised, but if, in 1927, the rent which obtains for similar houses not provided by the local authority is exacted by the local authority, then I understand that there will be no further burden thrown upon the rates, and the taxpayers are assured that when the year 1927 conies they will not be suddenly faced with a burden beyond the penny rate. Representations have been made to me that I ought, as a humble member of your Lordships' House, to take the opportunity of this Bill being before us to find out exactly what the Government. intend. The ratepayer is at this moment extremely sensitive —and very rightly so, when he sees the rates bounding up on all sides—and he wants to be assured that, so long as his representatives do their duty and administer the property properly, the full burden of the loss will be bounded by the penny rate. I asked the noble Lord that question on the last occasion, and he now replies that if the rents charged in 1927 are the same rents as obtain for similar houses provided, not by the local authority, but by private enterprise, then no further burden will be thrown upon the rates.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: That is correct; nothing above the penny rate. I am afraid I did not at first quite understand the noble Marquess.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I am not a bit surprised that the noble Earl did not. I am conscious that, I did not, state it clearly, but I did my best.. I ant very much obliged to him for making the point clear, and if this information reaches the ears of the public and of the local authorities, I am sure that they also will be very much obliged.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Will the noble Earl allow me to raise one point? With Clause 1 we reach the date to which the provision of the money is extended under this Bill. It is June of this year, is it not?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: No, it is next year—June 23, I think. Two years and six months.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I am very much obliged to the noble Earl.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
521: The Amendment which the noble Lord proposed falls into two parts. The first part deals with the employe of a local authority entering into contractual relations with the authority which employs him, and the other deals with contracts with any local authorities having powers or duties within the parish in which the works are to be executed. I submit that the first part of the Amendment is already covered by Section 193 of the Public Health Act, 1875, which provides that "officers or servants appointed or employed under this Act by the local authority shall not in anywise be concerned or interested in any bargain or contract made with such authority for any of the purposes of this Act." That was slightly amended by the Act of 1885, but, substantially, remains the same, and the penalty for any breach is an extremely severe one. The officer concerned is to be incapable of afterwards holding, or of continuing in, any office or employment under the Act, and shall forfeit the sum of £50 in fine. Those provisions apply to the Housing Act, and therefore I venture to think that the object of the new clause, so far as that part is concerned, is already met.521THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The noble Earl says that the assistant overseer is employed by a different council. That is true in one sense, but you can look upon the councils as one single regiment, and to allow the assistant overseer to take a contract, when the direct representative of the district council is not allowed to take a contract, seems to me to be very much the same thing as not allowing, in the case of a regiment, a quartermaster to take a contract, but to say," Well, it does not matter if the corporal does." They are actually working for exactly the same purposes, in the same interest, and under virtually the same authority.LORD ABINGER
: A little point arises on this clause, as I think the noble Earl knows, because I have been in correspondence with him about it.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I have not received the noble Marquess's letter.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
" Provided that the Treasury shall not approve any such Regulation until satisfied that provision has been made that any loss incurred by the metropolitan borough councils in carrying out such scheme is repaid to such councils, as directed by the said Act."523: I concluded that was so from my knowledge of the great courtesy of the noble Earl. I will, however, explain the point to him and he will see whether he can deal with it. Clause 8 deals with arrangements between the London County Council and the metropolitan borough councils. If I remember aright, under Section 41 of the principal Act the London County Council has power to devolve upon the metropolitan borough councils part of its duties under schemes. But it is provided that no loss shall accrue to the borough councils in consequence. It is represented to me that, as the clause is now drawn, great ambiguity remains as to whether this provision saving the London borough councils from loss remains intact. Certainly, as a matter of drafting, I should have expected, if it was intended that the saving should remain intact, that it would be repeated at the end of subsection (1) of Clause 8." Provided that the Treasury shall not approve any such Regulation until satisfied that provision has been made that any loss incurred by the metropolitan borough councils in carrying out such scheme is repaid to such councils, as directed by the said Act."523THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
524: I am sure the noble Marquess will forgive me if I do not give him a quite definite reply. Unfortunately-, his letter has not reached me, and I had no information that he intended to make this proposal. Perhaps I might give a short. explanation of the reason why this clause has been introduced to amend the clauses in the Act of 1919. The clause to which the noble Marquess referred was defective, inasmuch as it required the London County Council to repay the whole loss to the metropolitan borough councils, even if the metropolitan borough council concerned had been negligent or extravagant in the administration of a scheme. Therefore, in this respect, the metropolitan borough council would be in a much more favourable position than any other local authority in the country.524THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My difficulty is that there will not be any subsequent. stage, except the Third Reading, unless an Amendment is inserted in the Bill now; otherwise, I would be most willing to postpone this discussion to the Report stage. I must confess that I am not satisfied with the noble Earl's answer, for this reason. When my attention was called to this subsection I turned at once to the repeal schedule because I expected that if it was intended to alter the existing law the section which the noble Earl says is in force would be repealed, but it does not appear in the schedule. Therefore, I think what was intended was this. I will not say that the Government rather wanted to do it because that would be implying a motive, but somebody was rather anxious to get this Bill through without making this alteration.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I explained the clause on the-Second Reading.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Then I withdraw that. I listened very carefully to the noble Earl, but I suppose my attention wandered for a moment and I did not catch that. As a matter of drafting, if it was intended to modify profoundly Section 41 of the Act of 1919, one would expect it to be repealed and a section to be put in for the purpose in some such form as this:
"Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 41 of the Act of 1919," and so on. As I say, I looked at the repeal schedule expecting to see that this subsection of Section 41 was repealed. It is not the whole of the section, and if a subsection of this former section is going to be reversed by this new legislation the proper thing is to repeal that subsection. That being so, I should rather like to put in words of some kind so that there may be a Report stage on which the noble Earl can deal with this matter, because he knows how difficult it is to deal with all these intricate questions on Third Reading.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Would it meet the noble Marquess if the Report stage were taken to-morrow?THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: That cannot very well be done unless an Amendment is made.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Then I think the best plan would be to accept the noble Marquess's Amendment, without prejudice.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Yes, it could be accepted without. prejudice.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I do not wish to trouble your Lordships with another speech, but I think perhaps the noble Earl will realise that I am not quite satisfied, and I do not think your Lordships are quite satisfied, with his reply in respect. to Ireland. I do not ask your Lordships to make any modification in the Bill at the present stage; I desire only to reserve to myself the right of reverting to this matter when the next stage of the Bill is reached.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I should like to ask the noble Earl when he proposes to take the Report stage.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: To-morrow, I thinkTHE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I hope the noble Earl will give me a little more time than that.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Thursday then, The point is that we do not want to lose more fine weather than we can help.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I agree with the noble Earl, and I have no objection to Thursday. Perhaps he will look at the Order Paper and see whether there is any chance of it coming on then.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I will put it. down provisionally for Thursday.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, this is a very small Bill, consisting of one clause. It is an amendment of the Protection of Animals Act, 1911, and as the clause was drafted by the Home Office I hope your Lordships will app cove of it. The object of the Bill is to alter the law so as to ensure that no rabbit coursing shall take place, except in circumstances where the animals are given a reasonable chance of escape The unfortunate rabbit has very little chance in a fenced-in place, but the Bill will give it a. "reasonable chance of escape." I might add that the Bill was brought in because of a. decision in the Courts, where it was held that. a rabbit coursing meeting which took place in a field closely fenced all round with barbed wire and wire netting was no offence against the Act of 1911, notwithstanding that the rabbits had no chance of escape. I beg to move.LORD LAMBOURNE
nil540539: My Lords, before the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack responds to this Question, I want to make a contribution, and I think I am the only living person who can make it, It was my
nil540539LORD PHILLIMORE
: My Lords, I should like to give a precedent—although it is not exactly in accord with the present case—under which these costs might be paid to the Bishop quite irrespective of what might be done in the future as regards providing a fund for purposes of this kind. I have in mind a case happened to the late Archbishop Temple, at a time when I had just become his Vicar-General. The question arose in connection with the confirmation of the present Bishop Gore in the see of Worcester. Very strong objections were raised by the Low Church Party, and I was asked, as Vicar-General, on behalf of the Primate, to try whether he was an orthodox person or not. That is a duty I refused to undertake. But in the result the question was taken to the King's Bench, and argued for nearly a month. Very large costs were involved, amounting to several thousands of pounds, which would have been a very heavy charge on the Archbishop, and to which, personally as Vicar-General. I was very pleased not to he subject. We won the case. Lord Salisbury intervened on that occasion, and the costs of the Primate I and of his Vicar-General were paid from a public fund.LORD PARMOOR
544543prima facie542541: My Lords, I do not know that my intervention in this discussion is really necessary, but the noble Earl who introduced the Motion referred to me
544543prima facie542541THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
547prima facie546prima facie545: My Lords, the Question asked by the noble Earl relates to proceedings under the Clergy Discipline Act. 1892. It may be convenient that I should make it clear what are the classes of case which may arise under that Act, and what is the right of appeal. The noble Earl has spoken of the possibility of limiting, or of imposing conditions upon, the right of appeal. In the first place, the Act provides that if a clergyman is convicted of treason or felony, or, on indictment, of misdemeanour, and on any such conviction is sentenced to imprisonment with hard labour or any greater punishment, or a bastardy order is made against him, or he is found to have committed adultery in a divorce or matrimonial cause, or has an order for judicial separation, or a separation order under the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1878, made against him, the bishop is compelled to declare his preferment vacant, and he becomes incapable of holding any future preferment. No proceedings under this section involve the bishop or any other party in any costs.547prima facie546prima facie545THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
: I thank the noble and learned Lord for his reply.THE EARL OF LIVERPOOL
556: The noble Lord who has asked this Question has given us a most interesting and able speech, in which he has discussed the question of the propaganda both in peace, and war in this country and abroad, and in America and in the East; and he has put the Question to His Majesty's Government as to whether there are adequate legal powers to enable the introduction of foreign money, or the import and sale of foreign goods, for the purposes of subversive propaganda, to be treated as a criminal offence. I will attempt to address myself more particularly to the Question which the noble Lord has put to the Government, and not to follow him in the discussion and the illustrations which he has given us of the methods of propaganda undertaken in this country and elsewhere.556THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: When was the answer given?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
557: On May 12 last. As regards the importation of publications and the powers possessed by the Government, I may perhaps call attention to the special powers of search which are provided by Article 3 of the Aliens Order, 1920. The noble Lord, I think, referred to the question of immigration, and I gather that he did not consider that the Order was as strictly enforced as it might be, but I think I may reassure him on that
557THE EARL OF ONSLOW
559558: My Lords, I observed that the noble Earl in his reply called your Lordships' attention to an answer which had been made in another place on May 12. We are now at June 15. I must say I was a little surprised that the noble Earl was not able to add somewhat to an answer which was given a month ago. Of course, if it were an ordinary matter of legislation, not of an urgent character, one would quite understand the deliberate character of the delay, but, as a matter of fact, this revolutionary propaganda is an urgent matter. Your Lordships are aware of the evidence which has been laid before the public on this subject by my noble friend, the Duke of Northumberland, and which has not yet been confuted in any way.559558THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I beg to thank the noble Earl for his reply. I gather that the gist of it is that we have great powers, but that it is very difficult to apply them. One understands perfectly that you would not wish to penalise any political effort by our own people to attain their objects by constitutional methods. But can we not differentiate against the foreigner when he seeks to subvert the Constitution, which we have built up in so many years?LORD SYDENHAM
563"If the question of the Jews be left on one side I do not think that there is any doubt at all that, given the desirability of a Mandatory, and that I think will be universally conceded, the Arabs of Palestine would sooner have the British than they would have any other foreign State. Therefore I think, so far as the selection of ourselves is concerned, the noble Lord need not feel any doubt upon that point."562" The wishes of these communities must be a principal consideration in the selection of the Mandatory.": My Lords, the noble Lord has revived a subject which has already been discussed in your Lordships' House. I would mention in particular the debate on April 20 last, in which my noble friend the Marquess of Londonderry stated the case on behalf of His Majesty's Government. If noble Lords will refer to Article 22 of the Covenant of the League of Nations they will see that the words used are:
563"If the question of the Jews be left on one side I do not think that there is any doubt at all that, given the desirability of a Mandatory, and that I think will be universally conceded, the Arabs of Palestine would sooner have the British than they would have any other foreign State. Therefore I think, so far as the selection of ourselves is concerned, the noble Lord need not feel any doubt upon that point."562" The wishes of these communities must be a principal consideration in the selection of the Mandatory."THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: My Lords, I am obliged to the noble Duke for his answer, but I confess I cannot agree that His Majesty's Government are not evading the point of my very simple question when they say that the League of Nations are not concerned with the acceptance of the Mandate. I want to give the League of Nations direct information, which, so far as I can see, cannot do any possible harm, It may not do any good, but it cannot influence their future action adversely, while it will put them in full possession of all the circumstances that bear on this case. This might be of use to them possibly on some future occasion. In the circumstances, however, I do not wish to put the House to the trouble of a Division, though, I confess, the answer is extremely unsatisfactory.LORD LAMINGTON
570569en routeen route568: My Lords, we have listened with interest to the speech of the noble Lord, who has displayed great knowledge of an intricate and difficult subject, The Secretary of State for the Colonies yesterday made a full statement on the subject of Palestine in another place. In these circumstances I may perhaps be permitted to confine myself to the two specific points mentioned by the noble Lord. Your Lordships are no doubt aware that in consequence of the most unfortunate disturbances at
570569en routeen route568THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: I will certainly make inquiries.THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
577: I did not hear what the noble Earl said. I have no doubt that the noble Earl is more sympathetic than most noble Lords present, because he showed, when he was Minister, a very special interest in the research work which was then being initiated. But as regards the other problems to which Sir Arthur Griffith-Boscawen refers —namely, plant and soil problems —those are already being more than covered in the matter of research at Rothamsted, and to some extent at Cambridge and Aberystwith. There is one department of research which has not yet been dealt with, and for which the chief agricultural adviser of the Ministry has already made an appeal to the public for generous help —I may venture to remind the noble Earl that at the moment I have the honour of being Chairman of two of these research stations, and we are in genuine fear that in the acceptance of this gift by the Ministry we may ourselves suffer in the very important work which we are at present conducting. The department to which I refer is animal disease. Although there is at the moment an important Royal Commission sitting in reference to this question of animal disease, we have not in this country any research institute or centre dealing with research into animal diseases. Nor have we what some other countries have —a research station in connection with comparative pathology, that is to say, the relation that disease in animals bears to disease in man. That covers the whole area of internal parasitical disease, which is common both to our domestic animals and also to mankind.577LORD BLEDISLOE
578: My Lords, the noble Lord has already, in putting this Question, referred at some length to the correspondence which passed between Lord. Lee of Fareham and the Minister of Agriculture as regards Lord Lee of Fareham's generous gift, so that I do not think it is necessary for me to refer again to those letters. In reply to his Question, I may say that the exact terms under which the surrender will be effected are under consideration and cannot for the moment be set out, but Lord Lee of Fareham proposes to anticipate the provisions of the trust deed and to hand over forthwith the home farm and the woodlands at Chequers on the same generous terms as he made in the gift of the house and its amenities. The Ministry will be allowed to enter into possession of the farm as a going concern without any payment for tenant right or growing crops. The surrender is to be made in the course of the next few weeks, and I am sure the noble Lord will recognise what a generous provision that is, because the Ministry will have the reaping and selling of all the crops which Lord Lee of Fareham sowed and cultivated. Lord Lee will also leave the implements and equipment of the farm, together with a. good amount of livestock on the farm. I believe he proposes to sell off only some of his pedigree herds.578THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
582: My Lords, before the Motion is put I have a few observations to make to the House about this Measure. I am not going to say a word in opposition to the Motion made by the most rev. Primate, but I think this is a very important and interesting occasion and it would be a pity that it should remain unmarked by nothing more than what is practically a formal Motion to present the Measure to His Majesty. This Measure is really the first important result and the first test of the working of the Church Assembly (Powers) Act, and I do not think it will be possible for anybody to say that the Act has not worked admirably.582LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: My Lords, may I say one word in reference to what the noble Lord opposite (Lord Muir Mackenzie) has said. I happen to have been very intimately concerned with the matter during its conduct through the National Assembly. The noble Lord has suggested that certain persons whose interests were affected had no knowledge of what was being done, or at any rate did not know the extent to which their interests were being affected. I can assure him that that did not happen. I can assure him for a very good reason. The same persons who raised the objection came to see me several times, and, moreover, there were Amendments upon the Paper during the passage; of the Measure through the National Assembly which raised the very points to which the noble Lord has called attention. I agree that they were points of importance, and, because of that fact, they were very fully considered and discussed. I agree also with him that there ought to be sufficient publicity, but I am quite sure there was no want of publicity in this case upon the particular points to which he has called our attention.LORD PARMOOR
impasse585584: My Lords, if I intervene for one moment it would be to express, as a member of the Ecclesiastical Com-
impasse585584LORD O'HAGAN
impasse586: My Lords, may I intervene foe a few moments upon the important point raised by Lord Muir Mackenzie and Lord O'Hagan, relating to; the powers of the Ecclesiastical Committee. I happen to be Chairman of that Committee, and it is not in a position quite so difficult as noble Lords suppose. The position is this. When a Measure is passed by the Church Assembly it comes before this Committee of the two Houses for consideration, and if some matter I appears to the Committee to require amendment in the Measure they cannot, it is true, themselves pass Amendments, nor do I think any one suggests it is desirable they should have that power. The Legislative Committee of the Church Assembly cannot itself amend the Measure; and I am not sure that the members of the Church Assembly generally would desire that a Committee only of that body should have so great a power.impasse586VISCOUNT CAVE
impasse;: My Lords, the noble and learned Viscount who has just spoken has said, much better than I could have expressed it, what I was going to say, and he speaks with an authority which I cannot hope to command. I admit that the constitutional point raised by Lord Muir Mackenzie is a real one, and as our experience of the working of the Act proceeds, it may be necessary for the National Assembly to consider whether any amendment is required. But it is not the fact, as supposed by Lord O'Hagan, that the Ecclesiastical Committee has no alternative but to recommend the rejection of a Measure. On the contrary, it can, in friendly and private conference with the Legislative Committee, point out the mistakes which it thinks have been made. It can inform the Legislative Committee of the Report that it will have to send to Parliament unless those charges are made. It can point out the changes which would enable it to recommend the Measure without any reservation, and the Legislative Committee has then the responsibility thrown upon it of deciding whether it will ask the Ecclesiastical Committee to send its Report on to Parliament or to withdraw the Measure for the moment, fairing it the next session to the National Assembly and pointing out the changes which the Ecclesiastical Committee think ought to be made. The responsibility will then rest with the National Assembly to come to a decision. That might involve delay, but it does not involve an impasse;THE EARL OF SELBORNE
587: My Lords, may I point out also that, although unquestionably it is necessary to face, a certain amount of delay if amendments 'are to be effected, the measure of delay is
587LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
: By the kind permission of the House, may I say that the position of the Ecclesiastical Committee in matters of this kind was not understood by many members of the Committee when the question was before us.LORD O'HAGAN
: May I thank Lord Muir Mackenzie for what he has said on this subject and the helpful criticism that has been contributed by noble Lords. I can promise that very careful consideration will be given to all that has been said in the debate.THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
594593: My Lords, this is not the first time on which my noble and learned friend has called the attention of the House to the institution of this Court of International Justice. It is a body in the inception of which he himself bore a very honourable part, and in the progress of which to maturity he is entitled to take, as he does, very strong interest. He is anxious that nothing should occur to prevent this body from coming into being at the earliest possible date, and he has complained, in the first part of his remarks, of the apparent inertia, or remissness, which he finds himself unable to understand, both of the States who are concerned in the institution of this Court and of the League of Nations itself in carrying it through its preliminary stages. The remedy he suggests, in the first part of his Question, is that His Majesty's Government should use their good offices to induce the other States, parties to the League, who have not yet ratified the Statute constituting the Court to do so in good time.594593THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTOX)
: I never suggested that candidates need come from them. What I suggested was that the nominators of the candidate would be fewer and have less weight.Lord PHILLIMORE
595: They will be fewer, but they will not necessarily carry less weight. Let us suppose that Lord Finlay were left alone, and that a nomination came from Lord Finlay; that would, in my judgment, carry at least as much weight as any three people I can imagine. However I am not prepared to enter into that question now. I have
595Earl CURZON of KEDLESTON
596: I should like to thank the noble Earl for what he has said, and to express my great joy at his view that it will be possible to get sufficient ratifications by September. I am sorry to say that that view is not shared at the Secretariat at Geneva, from which I have
596LORD PHILLTMORE
: I do not want to interrupt, but it is laid down very clearly in the Rules of Business that the noble Lord is justified in explaining any misrepresentation of his remarks that may have been made, but he is not justified in recapitulating his arguments.EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: I regret that it is not possible at the present moment to inform the noble Viscount whether such inquiries as he suggests are actually taking place, but I will find out, and I hope shortly to be able to inform the noble Viscount privately, or in your Lordships' House.THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: Will the noble Duke consider the desirability of inquiries as to the accuracy of what I said about Haifa and Bethlehem?LORD LAMINGTON
567"If these words had been said three years ago they would have sated an infinity of heart-burning and bitterness., and that disastrous loss of British prestige which is the most serious handicap in the carrying out of the Mandate."" The words of the Balfour Declaration, the real sense of which has perhaps not been conveyed by the translation of the English words into Arabic, mean that the Jews, a people who are scattered throughout the world but whose hearts are always turned to Palestine, should be enabled to found there their home, and that some among them, within the limits that are fixed by the numbers and interests of the present population, should come to Palestine, in order to help by their resources and efforts to develop the country to the advantage of all the inhabitants."566Morning Post565personnel564: My Lords, I have now to ask His Majesty's Government whether they can make a statement as to the present situation of affairs in Palestine, with especial reference to immigration and to appointments in the Administration. About a week ago the noble Lord, Lord Sydenham, asked a variety of Questions upon this and other points, and at that time he received no reply at all upon several of them. With regard to the question of immigration we now know that a change of policy has recently taken place in Palestine.567"If these words had been said three years ago they would have sated an infinity of heart-burning and bitterness., and that disastrous loss of British prestige which is the most serious handicap in the carrying out of the Mandate."" The words of the Balfour Declaration, the real sense of which has perhaps not been conveyed by the translation of the English words into Arabic, mean that the Jews, a people who are scattered throughout the world but whose hearts are always turned to Palestine, should be enabled to found there their home, and that some among them, within the limits that are fixed by the numbers and interests of the present population, should come to Palestine, in order to help by their resources and efforts to develop the country to the advantage of all the inhabitants."566Morning Post565personnel564LORD LAMINGTON
573"England has not even the consolation of seeing her trade prosper in Palestine, for which she shed the blood of more than 250,000 of her sons and spent more than £ 300,000,000. During the first 18 months after the Armistice Palestine's imports consisted of 80 per cent, of British goods, but after these first 18 months the German and Austrian goods began to arrive gradually, and now I regret to tell you that the German and Austrian goods, imported 95 per cent, by the Jews, fill our markets, and scarcely 15 per cent, to 20 per cent, of our imports come from England.''"A German Jew who has fought against England during the last war can come to Palestine and buy lands at once, while a Christian Englishman who has fought and shed his blood cannot buy land in Palestine. Last year, under the pretence of keeping prices low in Palestine, the export of barley, wheat and other cereals was prohibited from Palestine, though the crops were exceptionally good and in excess of the country's needs. The Zionist Committee who wanted that measure for the benefit of their immigrants had advised the Government to accept that ruinous measure. What has been the result of that measure? We have now in Palestine about 40,000 tons of wheat, barley dari, seed, beans, peas, and lentils from the old crop, and the new crop has begun, and on these 40,000 tons the poor peasants lose £ 150,000.''Morning Post572: My Lords, I have already spoken at some length on the situation in Palestine and I do not propose to occupy more than a few minutes of your Lordships' time on this occasion. Since I spoke, however, I have received a great deal more information, which goes to show that the riots were not confined to Jaffa, but extended to at least three other places, where they were very violent and caused great loss of life. From a letter which I have received from a Palestinian, I learn that the Superintendent of Police stated that some of the Jews and Jewish police were armed. This letter states that three and a half tons of dynamite were discovered in a single Jewish house in Jaffa, and that
573"England has not even the consolation of seeing her trade prosper in Palestine, for which she shed the blood of more than 250,000 of her sons and spent more than £ 300,000,000. During the first 18 months after the Armistice Palestine's imports consisted of 80 per cent, of British goods, but after these first 18 months the German and Austrian goods began to arrive gradually, and now I regret to tell you that the German and Austrian goods, imported 95 per cent, by the Jews, fill our markets, and scarcely 15 per cent, to 20 per cent, of our imports come from England.''"A German Jew who has fought against England during the last war can come to Palestine and buy lands at once, while a Christian Englishman who has fought and shed his blood cannot buy land in Palestine. Last year, under the pretence of keeping prices low in Palestine, the export of barley, wheat and other cereals was prohibited from Palestine, though the crops were exceptionally good and in excess of the country's needs. The Zionist Committee who wanted that measure for the benefit of their immigrants had advised the Government to accept that ruinous measure. What has been the result of that measure? We have now in Palestine about 40,000 tons of wheat, barley dari, seed, beans, peas, and lentils from the old crop, and the new crop has begun, and on these 40,000 tons the poor peasants lose £ 150,000.''Morning Post572LORD SYDENHAM
571: My Lords, I should like to ask the noble Duke who has just spoken whether he can give; the House any information upon one point of some interest in connection with his statement, I itself extremely interesting. Are any inquiries or surveys now being taken through Palestine with the object of ascertaining what is the area of the unoccupied or scantily populated areas in which it would be possible to settle immigrants? The. difficulty, as your Lordships know, is that in Palestine, while some areas —such as the middle and lower Jordan Valley and the coastal plain along the Mediterranean, which is very dry —are at present very thinly peopled, the rest of the country is pretty well populated. It is, of course, very difficult to introduce into peopled I areas any considerable number of immigrants, and it is not unnatural that much I disquiet and anxiety should have arisen I among the existing population, which is chiefly Moslem, upon that subject; but there are unoccupied areas. These areas might be rendered habitable and fertile if there were a proper supply of water. Water might be provided from the Jordan hills along the western side, by the construction of dams and reservoirs, or in the Jordan Valley, by the construction of a dam, which would impound the waters for the production of electric power and also for the irrigation of the middle and lower parts of the valley. But these things are rather in the distance, and would require the expenditure of a certain amount of capital.571VISCOUNT BRYCE
: I
have given Notice of that.LORD BALFOUR OF BURLEIGH
bona fide600599598: My Lords, I need take up but a very short space of your time in moving the Second Reading of this Bill. Sir Robert Baden-Powell asked me, at a moment's notice, to attend the First Reading, but I was unable to be here in time. Very much the same thing happened fourteen years ago. This Bill was kindly introduced by the Earl of Meath
bona fide600599598LORD METHUEN
601: My Lords, I rise with some diffidence to reply to the speech of the noble Lord who has moved the Second Reading of this Bill. I feel, no doubt with
601THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: May I ask, as a Commissioner of the Boy Scouts, if what the noble Earl has said means that the Second Reading is to be allowed now?THE DUKE OF ATHOLL
: I shall not oppose the Second Reading.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I think the noble Earl has rather looked upon the Bill as giving privileges to the Boy Scouts, whereas it is really a Bill to protect the public. I do not think the Boy Scouts need any protection here or anywhere else. THE DUKE OF ATHOLL
: My Lords, I need not occupy the time of the House in explaining this very simple Bill. It is the exact counterpart of the one that the House willingly passed earlier in the week. Two Acts have been passed, one for regulating matters in Scotland and the other applying to England, but it has been found that an amendment is required, and the object of the two Bills, both of which are before the House, is to amend the respective Acts in the same way. I beg to move.LORD BALFOUR OF BURLEIGH
: I hope so.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
bona fidebona fide603: My Lords, I do not propose to take up much of your time this afternoon, but I. should like to offer a few words in explanation of this measure. The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to certain of the recommendations of the Departmental Committee on the Dentists Act, 1878, which reported in 1919. At present that Act regulates the registration of dentists, but the Committee found that grave injury to the public health results from the fact that under the existing Act anyone with a minimum of training can practice dentistry, provided he does not call himself a dentist. The Committee recommended that legislation should be introduced to prohibit unregistered and unqualified persons practising dentistry, but in order not to prejudice the legitimate interests of non-registered practitioners
bona fidebona fide603THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, I do not wish to detain you with a long speech on the Second Reading of this Bill, as I propose to put down an Amendment for the Committee stage. At the same time, I do not wish your Lordships to think that this is altogether an agreed Bill. There is, in fact, considerable opposition to a certain part of the measure, and on behalf of the Ivory Cross Society, of which I am at present the Chairman, I shall have something to say in the Committee stage. There is no opposition to the Bill, as a Bill, by dental practitioners or the Society. It is, in fact, welcomed by dental practitioners and by my organisation, but there are certain features of it to which they strongly object, principally in regard to the wholesale admittance of the unqualified practitioner. In deference, to the noble Earl, who has shortened his speech this afternoon, I will reserve any further remarks for the Committee stage.LORD GREVILLE
: I regret to say that I am not able, at the moment, to indicate the date on which the Bill will be introduced. Its preparation has been delayed by the pressure of other business, but I hope to be in a position to make a more definite announcement at an early date.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
606en bloc: My Lords, I was a member of the Departmental Committee, which sat for a long time and took a great deal of evidence. There is no suggestion that all unregistered men should be admitted 606en blocVISCOUNT KNUTSFORD
: Hear, hear.Several NOBLE LORDS
: If nothing is done I shudder at the outlook; I shudder at the thought of the chaos of the coming winter. You have talked glibly, you talk glibly in this Memorandum on the Act which I have already quoted, about Crown Colony government in Ireland if the Southern Parliament refuses to meet, as we believe it will refuse to meet. Crown Colony government is based on a legal system and is based on tradition. Above all, Crown Colony government even is based on the good will of the governed and cannot be successful without it. Do His Majesty's Government really believe in their hearts that a system akin to Crown Colony government, under Section 22 of the Act, would enjoy the good will of anyone in Southern Ireland? Any such belief is a profound hallucination. Drowning men clutch at straws, and it may be that the hopes founded on the pronouncements of the past ten days are but straws and valueless. On the other hand, it may be that they may prove, in the end foundations of firmer structures, and it is in this most sincere hope that I ask your Lordships to pass the Motion which stands in my name.THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
624623622621620619618617: My Lords, I quite realise that nothing fresh, or possibly useful, or possibly even harmful, can be said in this debate on Ireland, and therefore I ask your Lordships' indulgence not only because I am addressing you for the first time but also, of course, because of the difficulty of the question involved. Perhaps I may be allowed to say that in some ways I bring to this question a somewhat more detached view than those of your Lordships who have been following it from day
624623622621620619618617EARL BUXTON
625: My Lords, I do not propose to trespass on your Lordships' attention for more than a few moments. There are, however, one or two things I should like to say with regard to the Motion which has been proposed by the noble Earl. I may say at once that I regret that he has chosen this moment for addressing your Lordships on this subject. He has had many previous opportunities of putting forward his views,
625THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
: May I say that I made no such suggestion, from the beginning to the end of my remarks?THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
: Then I apologise to the noble Earl, but I thought perhaps he addressed himself to it in rather a flippant manner, at a serious moment, when, as I venture to say again, we are doing our best to work the Act of Parliament which has been forced upon us.THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
: 1 said that I wish the noble Marquess conspicuous success.THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
626: We had no desire to establish a Parliament in the North of Ireland, but the Act of Parliament having been passed, we are proposing to do our best to make the Parliament a success, and to show that Irishmen can manage their own affairs. Notwithstanding what the noble Earl has said, I sincerely hope that if we do achieve success, as I believe we, shall, that success will in some way assist the rest of Ireland to realise that they can do the same thing in the South and West. I was not aware exactly what points the noble. Earl was going to take up in his speech, but I suggest to him that he has fallen into the same error, if I may use the expression, as the British Government. The British Government have fashioned a scheme, and are endeavouring to cause, Ireland to accept that scheme. We in the North are proposing to accept it, and to do what we can to make it a success. The rest of Ireland
626THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
Irish Times631Irish Times.630629The Times628627: My Lords, I listened with great interest to Lord Buxton' s speech. Of course, he knows a great deal about South Africa, but there is no analogy whatever between South Africa and Ireland. There was a policy of settlement brought forward there. That settlement was a success, and we must congratulate ourselves on the fact that those in
Irish Times631Irish Times.630629The Times628627THE EARL OF MAYO
: Who supports the noble Earl?THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
: Who supports me? There are other noble Lords who will speak.THE EARL OF MAYO
: I was referring to public opinion in Ireland. That is what we want to get at.THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
: I have something to say about public opinion in Ireland. Public opinion in Ireland is this—that the Government, having put Ireland into a great mess, must get Ireland out of that mess. As an Irishman, I have suggested the means by which they can do so. I do not say it will be accomplished to-morrow, or the next day, or the month after, but it will be a beginning.THE EARL OF MAYO
635634633632: My Lords, I do not desire to repeat what has been so well said by my noble friend, the Earl of Donough-more, and by those who have followed him, but perhaps I may be permitted, on behalf of some of your Lordships who are old friends of Viscount Buxton, who knew him and sat with him in the House of Commons, to say that we arc very glad to see him here and to welcome the ripe experience which he will bring to our debates.635634633632VISCOUNT BRYCE
638637636: My Lords, I did not intend to take part in this debate this afternoon, because I am rather in agreement with my noble friend, the noble Marquess, Lord Londonderry, who said that to introduce amendments to the Act at the present time, or to say- what amendments should be introduced, was rather premature. The only amendment that I would be willing to support to-night would
638637636LORD KILLANIN
642641640639: My Lords, after the full statement that has been made by various noble Lords it may seem a work of supererogation on my part to try to elaborate the arguments so ably put forward, but as one who has taken a small part in the various negotiations on the Irish question, and, in doing so, has been obliged to sacrifice the most cherished political convictions of a lifetime, perhaps your Lordships will bear with me for a few moments. I returned from Ireland yesterday, and it is difficult to find adequate words to describe the miserable state of that country, which is getting daily worse and worse. Those who believe in the doctrines, though they may not approve the action, of Sinn Fein, live in constant dread of the Black and Tans, and those who rely for support on the. Auxiliary Forces of the Crown are in terror of a visit from flying columns of the Irish Republican Army.642641640639LORD ORANMORE AND BROWNE
: My Lords, I believe that it is not convenient for the Minister who represents His Majesty' s Government in this debate to reply this evening, and therefore it seems necessary that the debate should be adjourned. I beg leave, therefore, to move the adjournment of the debate.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
643: My Lords, on that Motion, I should express myself a little differently from the noble Marquess. I made careful inquiries whether it was the expectation that the debate should take one day or two. Had it been possible at that time to anticipate that the debate would take two days, I should, of course, have arranged that a Minister representing the Government would have been prepared to speak to-day as well as on the second day. Indeed, I should myself have replied most willingly this evening to the speeches that
643THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
: My Lords, I am sure everybody will acquit the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack of any imputation of discourtesy, but I confess 1 think it is high time that we offered a protest against a debate of this magnitude—a debate which touches issues of vital importance to the whole country—being always left to be decided by one statement on behalf of the Government. We think we have the right to ask that speeches such as those which have been made by five or six noble Lords this evening, and which require the most careful consideration by the Government, should have the attention of the Lord Chancellor and also the Leader of the House, and that, if it be necessary for any of us to reply to the Lord Chancellor, there should still be members of the Government ready to deal with the arguments which we bring forward. I venture to put this point, because, in debate after debate, the whole burden of discussion has been left to be borne by the noble and learned Lord.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: I did not wish to impute the least discourtesy to the noble and learned Lord, who is always most courteous.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I should like to say on behalf of the noble Earl, Lord Curzon, that he very much regrets that he could not stay longer, although he remained a great deal longer than Lord Midleton seemed to indicate. Lord Curzon has eight hours work to-night, before leaving for the Continent to attend an important conference at 10 o' clock tomorrow morning. Therefore, I trust your Lordships will excuse him for not having been able to be here for more than an hour and three-quarters. May I suggest that the debate be resumed on Tuesday next?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: My Lords, I desire to ask His Majesty' s Government the Question of which I have given Notice— namely, when the Bill dealing with industrial assurance, "on the lines of the Report of Lord Parmoor' s Committee" which, on March 16 last, was promised after Easter, will be introduced.LORD SYDENHAM
: May I ask the
noble Earl whether we may still hope to see the Bill before the end of the session?LORD SYDENHAM
: I understand that my noble friend will move some Amendments in Committee to bring this Bill into line with the English Bill.LORD STANMORE
: In that case I have nothing more to say now.LORD STANMORE
:My Lords, this Bill has been prepared by the Board of Trade in pursuance of the requirements of Part I of the Pilotage Act, 1913, to confirm Pilotage Orders providing for the reorganisation of pilotage in the pilotage districts of Arbroath. Elgin and Lossiemouth, Eyemouth, Irvine, Thurso, and Wick. These Orders were agreed between the Board of Trade and the pilotage authorities and other interests concerned in the respective districts before they were introduced into Parliament. The Orders have been advertised in local newspapers and no objections to them have been received. I beg to move.LORD SOMERLEYTON
en blocquid pro quo: My Lords, no one desires to prolong the debate at this moment, but it is right that I should support the observations of Lord Greville when he says that there is an element in this Bill which will have to be carefully scrutinised in Committee. We are all in favour of the Bill, and in favour of protection for the dental profession, but there are not enough dentists to supply the population, and it is evidently proper we should do all in our power to make the profession as attractive as possible. In order to arrive at an agreement the Committee seemed to have been led, as aen blocquid pro quoTHE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, I am very glad to meet the convenience of the House in postponing the Bill, if it is your Lordships' wish.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion which stands in my name.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE)
: My Lords, I should like to ask the noble Earl in charge of this Bill whether there will be a Committee stage of the Bill in this House. It is a Scottish Bill, and I have yet been unable to ascertain whether the condition in which this Bill leaves the House will represent a Committee stage or not. I rise because I wish to bring up the question of the possible reduction of the assessable rental and the attitude of county councils towards such reduction. By the Bill an arrangement has been made, I think, with parish councils, for making good any loss in assessable rental only during the period of construction. I wish to find out why that arrangement has been made for the period of construction only, and why, if the total assessable value is permanently reduced, the promoters of this Bill should not have to meet a permanent reduction in assessable value.LORD LOVAT
648: My Lords, the noble Lord has described me as in charge of the Bill. He undoubtedly knows that that is only technically so, but that it is my duty as Chairman of Committees to bring this Motion forward. The Bill is an ordinary Private Bill, and if your Lordships read it a second time it will go to a Select Committee in the ordinary way. There will be no Committee stage in your Lordships' House, and no doubt, subject to the Standing Orders as regards the proper date on which to deposit petitions, the points to which the noble Lord has referred could be considered by any Select Committee of your Lordships'
648THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
: My Lords, no petition has been presented. As I understand that the time for presenting petitions has expired, will not the Committee stage simply be that of an unopposed Bill, before the noble Earl himself, in the room adjoining? Can questions of merit be taken in those circumstances?LORD BALFOUR OF BURLEIGH
: The noble Lord is asking a question which his experience enables him to answer as well as I can. If there are no petitions, the Bill will go to the unopposed Committee. The Chairman of Committees, as the noble Lord knows, presides over that Committee, and perhaps I may remind him that even in his time it was not unusual for questions of merit to be discussed before that Committee on the initiation of the noble Lord, and very properly.THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
: I desired that the matter should come before the House.LORD LOVAT
654653: My Lords, this Bill seeks to secure standardisation and equality of treatment in a. really equitable and generous system of pensions not only to policemen themselves, but also to their wives and orphans. The basis of the Bill is to be found in the Report and recommendations of the Committee on Police Service, which was presided over by-the noble Lord, Lord Desborough. Copies of the Report of that Committee are on the Table of your Lordships' House. It is a voluminous document, prepared with the greatest care after the Committee had gone thoroughly into every question regarding police service in England, Wales and Scotland. The essential principles laid down by the Committee were that the system of local police forces, as against a single I national police force, should be retained, but that the pensions of the service throughout should be standardised.654653THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I have not yet considered that point, but I will confer with the Authorities and will not proceed
with the further stages of the Bill until it has been settled.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, I had the advantage of a private conference with the noble Earl, after your Lordships had last considered this Bill, and I am obliged to him for the change in drafting. I think, however, the Amendment amounts to rather more than a change in drafting. It makes it more obvious that borough councils will not have this burden thrown upon them, and that is important from the point of view I urged on the last occasion. I recognise that the Government accepted my Amendment without prejudice and that it is entirely open to them to move this Amendment in its place. I shall not oppose it, because they have done a great deal to meet the point of view I submitted to the House.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: The Amendment to the Schedule is consequential.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
659: My Lords, I have received the Report
of the Committee, and shall have much pleasure in giving instructions for it to be printed
659THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: Super-Tax.A NOBLE LORD
plectuntur Achividelirant Reges675674673672Irish Times671"I feel that unless the noble Earl has a complete proposal it would have been far better for him to have waited until lie had such a complete proposal, and until he had support for it in Ireland, before bringing forward the Motion which he has on the Paper."670non possumus: My Lords, it is not very easy for rather a humble member of this House to follow a speech like that which has just been delivered by my noble friend, stating his point of view as to the position now in Ireland, as to its future, and as to the Resolution moved by my noble friend, Lord Donough-more. I shall not presume to enter into conflict with him on many matters to which be has referred, and the reply to which falls rather within the capacity and ability of my noble friend, Lord Midleton, or—a matter which is, to us, the most important—that of the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, to whose statement we of Ireland look this afternoon with the deepest interest, I hope riot with apprehension. I must say one thing about the noble Marquess's speech. It was entirely destructive of everything, not only of the Act, but of our proposition, which is not put forward as a certain panacea. We do not pretend that, but we think it affords a chance—perhaps the only chance—of producing peace in Ireland, which is the main object certainly of all in Ireland, and I should think also of every noble Lord here present.plectuntur Achividelirant Reges675674673672Irish Times671"I feel that unless the noble Earl has a complete proposal it would have been far better for him to have waited until lie had such a complete proposal, and until he had support for it in Ireland, before bringing forward the Motion which he has on the Paper."670non possumusTHE EARL OF DESART
678impasse677676: My Lords, I shall occupy the time of the House only a very few moments. I have often expressed my views before your Lordships to the best of my ability. I do not want to repeat myself, and I admit that I have nothing new to say on this occasion. But I support the Motion before the House so very strongly that. I should like to do so with something more than a silent vote. This may be the last occasion on which I can make an appeal to His Majesty's Government to endeavour to relieve the people of Ireland from the terrible conditions under which they are now suffering, and to avert from them the greater calamities that loom so ominously in the future. The condition of Ireland has been described to your 'Lordships to-night and last Thursday. It has not been exaggerated, and it could mot be exaggerated.678impasse677676THE EARL OF DUNRAVEN
: How? How?A NOBLE LORD
: I gathered that he thought the only thing at present to be done was repression. Of course, disorder can be driven under the surface in Ireland by the pressure of sufficient force, but it cannot be kept under without continuing the pressure of sufficient force. The moment force is taken away, it will crop up again, because at the bottom of all the trouble in Ireland is the fact that the people are convinced that they never will get, by constitutional and peaceful means, their reasonable demands. Force is justifiable in many cases. I believe force—and any extent of force—would be justified in the eyes of the people of Great Britain, and I believe would be justified in the hearts of the people of Ireland, to put down secession. But I do not see how any justification can be found for putting twenty-six counties of Ireland under a military dictatorship—for that is what it really amounts to—until every means has been tried of satisfying them —every means within the limits that have been laid down over and over again by the Prime Minister, the limits of security for the United Kingdom and the integrity of the Empire. Until every such means has been tried I see no justification in force. And up to the present nothing has been tried.THE EARL OF DUNRAVEN
703702701: My Lords, I shall not detain the House at this hour for more than two or three minutes. But it would not do for me to give merely a silent vote in support of the Motion of the noble Earl. The Lord Chancellor spoke with his accustomed eloquence. In one
703702701THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: That. was only as regards getting rid of partition.THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
652: My Lords, I beg to move the Second Reading of this Bill, the provisions of which I can explain to your
652LORD DYNEVOR
: My Lords, I wish, in a very few words, to thank Lord Buckmaster for bringing forward this Bill for your Lordships' consideration. I would earnestly beg the House to pass it as soon as possible. We have already, on three or four occasions, been fortunate enough to secure the assent of your Lordships to a Bill of this kind, but we have had a very difficult task in obtaining the consent of the House of Commons. There we have been repulsed several times, but at last we have been successful in bringing before your Lordships' House an agreed. Bill. Though it does not contain everything that some of us could wish, it is at all events a Bill agreed upon by all Parties in the House of Commons. I can assure your Lordships that the society of which I am President, the Royal Society for the Protection of Animals, and every humane society in England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales, has been anxiously awaiting the passing of this measure, and they Will be deeply grateful to your Lordships for your immediate assent to the Second Reading of this Bill.LORD LAMBOURNE
685684683682681680: My Lords, you are approaching now the con-
685684683682681680THE LORD CHANCELLOR
688status687686: I thought the noble Earl was making a general observation. I was about to point out that the mere fact that discussions had taken place between the representatives of the South and the North of
688status687686THE LORD CHANCELLOR
696695ex hypothesi694personnel693692sds691ex hypothesi690689: The noble Marquess will forgive me for not pursuing this question too closely, but the account I have given of the arrangements which are provided in the Act are not in any way compatible with a continuance of the functions of the Chief Secretary as we have understood them in the past. Perhaps the noble Marquess will allow me on some future occasion to develop this point a little more fully. The advisers of the Viceroy will evidently be those who are nominated for the, purpose of advising him.696695ex hypothesi694personnel693692sds691ex hypothesi690689THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, it unfortunately happens that my noble friend is not in his place at the moment, and the noble Earl has addressed a Question to me with which I have no special competence to deal. But it is evident that many of your Lordships who are here to-day take, perhaps, a more general than a particular interest in the Dentists Bill, and are rather brought here by the subject of Ireland. My noble friend (the Earl of Onslow), and not I, has the responsibility for the Dentists Bill, and he is in a position to judge as well as I can that it would be very acceptable, I believe, to mot of your Lordships if the progress of his Bill could be postponed.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD) BIRKENHEAD)
: As this is a consolidation Bill may I ask whether it is one which, under the recent Order of the House, will go to the Joint Committee on Consolidation Bills?LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
651parvenu650: My Lords, this Bill may be described as a migrant from another place, and yet I doubt whether its real home will not be found to be here, for in the last session of Parliament the noble Marquess, Lord Aberdeen, introduced into this House a similar Bill which had the unusual distinction not merely of passing without a Division, but practically without a speech. Upon its introduction it was welcomed by the representative of the Government who was then in charge of the House, the noble Marquess abstained from further comment, and the Bill passed without any debate. After that striking testimonial to the merits of this measure I might really say no word now, but for the fact that this stage of the Bill is, of course, the last step that we have to travel in our long, and tiresome journey to make the measure law. As your Lordships know, the Bill is designed to prevent the importation of the plumage of birds into this country, and I think that those of you who are familiar with the cruelties that have been perpetrated in connection with the plumage trade will wish this Bill well.651parvenu650LORD BUCKMASTER
: Unless they contributed. I presume you would not bar them if they contributed.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: The past liability.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: No.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: And a great many others, too.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
700699"Our Irish advisers are of opinion that it may be possible in the course of a few months. Temper is changing so quickly and the decision of victory is being so clearly determined on the side of law and order that we shall be able to put it to Southern Ireland without the interminable delay which is suggested. It has been said that if an Election is held only Sinn Feiners will be found at the ballot box. We feel strong enough to say that if there is a Sinn Feiner at the ballot box there will be somebody else there too."698697: My Lords, I know well that your Lordships desire to go to a Division in a few minutes, but I am sure you will not grudge me a little time in which to utter what I am afraid must be a protest against much that we have admired in the concluding sentences of the noble and learned Lord's speech, and against the whole trend of the speech, which, I believe, will do more harm to the cause of a settlement in Ireland than any speech which the noble and learned Lord has ever delivered in the course of his career. What has been asked by every speaker with authority in the South of Ireland is that the Government will make up their minds. What the noble and learned Lord proposes is that they should decline to make up their minds, but that they should wait until the leaders of Southern and Northern Ireland can confer together and can come to the Government with a plan. No one knows better than the noble and learned Lord that there is no means at this moment even of getting to meet in Southern Ireland the Parliament which is to come to a determination.700699"Our Irish advisers are of opinion that it may be possible in the course of a few months. Temper is changing so quickly and the decision of victory is being so clearly determined on the side of law and order that we shall be able to put it to Southern Ireland without the interminable delay which is suggested. It has been said that if an Election is held only Sinn Feiners will be found at the ballot box. We feel strong enough to say that if there is a Sinn Feiner at the ballot box there will be somebody else there too."698697THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: My Lords, I should like to ask the Lord Chancellor a Question with regard to which I have already communicated with him. Your Lordships are aware that the debate on Ireland had to be adjourned last Thursday on the Motion of the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury, till to-day, as your Lordships were not sitting on Monday, and the Ministerial reply could not be made on Thursday. It will be almost impossible to conclude the debate, in which a number of your Lordships are interested, if other measures which are likely to
consume any time are to be taken before It. I understand that the Dentists Bill is likely to provoke a considerable amount of discussion— possibly for an hour, or an hour and a half. I would ask the noble and learned Lord to use his influence with the noble Earl in charge of the Bill (Lord Onslow) to postpone it, in order to enable this discussion, which it was clearly understood would be concluded to-day, to take place.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: My Lords, I wish to ask the First Commissioner of Works whether he has received the Report of the Committee appointed to consider amendments of the Ancient Monuments Act, and if he would consent to have it printed for public circulation.EARL BEAUCHAMP
: My Lords, may I say on behalf of the Board of Trade that this Bill, in its existing form, has the full sympathy and support of His Majesty's Government, who will welcome its passage into law.LORD SOMERLEYTON
: But fiscal autonomy is really the badge of independence, and when it has been won, as in this case it will have been, by rebellion, then it will be the symbol and sanction of independence. I know, of course, that there are a great many parts of our Dominions which have fiscal independence, and those great Dominions are some of the most valuable possessions of the Crown. But everybody knows that it is only during their pleasure; that if any of the great Dominions desire—as none of them do, and I hope none of them ever will—to have independence they would only have to say so; no one could resist it. And therefore fiscal autonomy is really the same thing as virtual independence.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I know my noble friend dose not agree.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My noble friend will forgive me. It was not only Super-Tax; there was a large field of taxation open to the Irish Parliament, and upon that, of course, they could raise money, if they could find anybody to lend it them—which I rather doubt. Therefore, the plea that the Irish Government would be without the proper equipment of a government broke down at the very threshold. The noble Viscount went on to point out that the control of Customs by the Irish Parliament would involve a line of Custom-houses, not merely as against Great Britain, but also as between Ulster and the rest of Ireland. It is very evident that Ulster will not submit to have its Customs determined by an All-Irish Parliament, and therefore there would have to be—or there might be—a different rate of Customs in Ulster from the remainder of Ireland, and there must, therefore, be a Customs line between the two. And Lord Peel pointed out that that would be an absurd result, as indeed everyone would agree.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
664"The George-Greenwood story about a' murder gang' presupposed that the I.R.A. acted independently of Dail Eireann. The elections just over ratify the I.R.A. as well as Dail Eireann. Ireland, in fact, stands by the gunmen."663Old Ireland"A detachment of the Dublin Brigade of the Irish Army was ordered to carry out the destruction of the Dublin Custom House, in accordance with a decision arrived at after due deliberation by the Ministry of Dail Eireann.& The Custom House was one of the seats of an alien tyranny.Irish Bulletin662661660: My Lords, last Thursday we had a most interesting debate, sustained with great ability by a large number of your Lordships; but there was one remarkable feature which characterised almost every speech. I say "almost," because I am not quite sure of the exact import of the speech made by my noble friend, the Marquess of Londonderry, but with that possible exception, every speech was an unqualified criticism, and I am afraid I must say condemnation, of the Irish policy of His Majesty's Government. That was a remarkable thing, because those who addressed your Lordships were not only noble Lords from Ireland—I say "not only" though, after all, noble Lords from Ireland may be expected to know in particular something about the condition of Ireland—but also very distinguished noble Lords who do not come from Ireland. There was an eminent noble Lord who has recently returned from governing one of our great Dominions. There was a late ambassador to the United States of America, one of the most distinguished men in the
664"The George-Greenwood story about a' murder gang' presupposed that the I.R.A. acted independently of Dail Eireann. The elections just over ratify the I.R.A. as well as Dail Eireann. Ireland, in fact, stands by the gunmen."663Old Ireland"A detachment of the Dublin Brigade of the Irish Army was ordered to carry out the destruction of the Dublin Custom House, in accordance with a decision arrived at after due deliberation by the Ministry of Dail Eireann.& The Custom House was one of the seats of an alien tyranny.Irish Bulletin662661660THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
669668667"The situation in Ireland urgently requires that His Majesty's Government should determine forthwith what amendments they are prepared to propose.": My noble friend will have the opportunity of explaining to your Lordships later on what he intends. In these circumstances, I am afraid, although I sympathise most warmly with my noble friends in the awful position in which they have been placed in Ireland, I cannot find it my duty to support them in the Motion which they have submitted. No; the Government have chosen the line which they thought it right to take and which they have induced Parliament to accept. The line they have chosen is to govern Ireland by an autonomy—a kind of autonomy which she hates, and which she is quite unfit to receive— and I see nothing for it but for them to go on with their experiment.669668667"The situation in Ireland urgently requires that His Majesty's Government should determine forthwith what amendments they are prepared to propose."THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I understood from my noble friend that he intends, at the very outset, to buy out the whole liability.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I do not know if I may interrupt the noble Earl for a moment. When he says, "Carry on as we are," I do not know whether he means that I favour the carrying on of the government of Ireland as the present Government have done it. I am very far from approving that. I doubt whether the present Government can restore order, but it can be done, undoubtedly, by people who know how.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Will the noble and learned Lord say what is to happen to the Chief Secretary in another place?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords,; I beg to make the Motion which stands in my name with regard to these Bills. I can certify to your Lordships that there are adequate public reasons for suspending the Sessional
Order.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE)
711710: My Lords, before this Bill goes into Committee I would like, with the indulgence of the House, to take the opportunity of making one or two observations, and addressing one or two questions to my noble friend, with regard to the measure. The Standing Joint Committee, as your Lordships are aware, recommended that the Bill, which has now passed its Second Reading and is about to enter Committee, should be adopted by Parliament, and the Standing Joint Committee then proceeded to recommend certain means for providing procedure best calculated to give effect to the Bill, and thus create a constitutional scheme for Burma. In paragraph (6) of the Committee's Report the Committee stated that they had not sufficient evidence to make any recommendation in regard to the two important aspects of the Bill—namely, the division between the reserved and transferred subjects, and the form of election to be adopted. As your Lordships are aware, these are perhaps the most vital elements of the Constitution. The Committee, therefore, proceeded to recommend that at an early date a Committee should be appointed to proceed to Burma; that there should be included in that Committee a Chairman from this country, and possibly one other member, who possessed Parliamentary knowledge; and that, the Committee should be charged with the duty of holding an open Inquiry in Burma both with regard to the franchise and the electoral system to be adopted, and also as to the subjects that are to be administered under the Constitution by Ministers.711710LORD ISLINGTON
712: My Lords, I fully endorse all that my noble friend Lord Islington has said, both as to the necessity of passing this Bill without delay and as to the necessity of appointing a Committee, as has been recommended by the Joint Committee, to inquire into details on the spot, and to make as early a Report to the Joint Committee and to Parliament as is possible, with reference to the suggested new scheme of self-government in Burma. It is most important, in my judgment, that that Committee should be so constituted as to command the general confidence of all Parties in Burma.712LORD CLWYD
pro tanto714713: My Lords, the proceedings and the action of the Secretary of State and of the Government of India in this matter have really been somewhat extraordinary. The noble Earl will remember, I am sure, that he told me that the Secretary of State had determined to refer the Bill to the discretion of the Committee. He even went so far as to say that the Secretary of State would withdraw the Bill, or would amend the Bill, if the Committee so recommended. But the Secretary of State seemed to have changed his mind, and he informed the Joint Select Committee that the Government had decided to apply the Government of India Act to Burma as it stood. Of course, the Secretary of State had a perfect right to do that, and he might even have dealt with Burma, if he chose, without any reference to Parliament at all. But, having set up the Joint Committee, and the Joint Committee having sat a good many times and done a great deal of work, surely it might have been allowed some discretion in the matter of the Bill, as was evidently at one time intended.pro tanto714713LORD SYDENHAM
717716715: My Lords, you. will not, I think, expect me at this stage to enter once more into a defence of the principles of the Bill which is now under discussion. My noble friend Lord Sydenham is, as we are all aware, a determined and convinced and, I am afraid, irreconcilable, opponent of the principle of diarchy, and it was only natural that he should oppose the extension of that principle to any other part of the world. The Bill, however, has received a Second Reading, and it- has been considered by a Joint Committee of both Houses of Parliament. I propose at this moment to deal only with the specific points raised on the Motion to go into Committee and to answer the questions which have been put to me.717716715THE UNDER - SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
718: My Lords, I should like to ask one question. I was not fortunate enough to be present during the first portion of the remarks of the noble Earl. It seems to me that it is no use going back on the fact that this Bill was introduced before the Committee was formed, and that, therefore, the policy was practically settled before the Committee could
718THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: Certainly. If the noble Earl had been in the House he would have heard that I announced the decision of the Secretary of State to appoint a Committee, which would be presided over by Mr. Whyte, who is a President of the Legislative Assembly in India, and that the question of whether other members should be sent out from this country was still occupying his attention.THE EARL OF LYTTON
719: My Lords, in reference to what has fallen from the noble Earl, the Under-Secretary, I would like to have made clear the last point with which he dealt. I understand that the opinion of the Joint Committee, of which I am a member, is that there is no objection to the appointment of Mr. Whyte as Chairman of the Committee, but the Committee attach immense importance—as, I am sure, my noble friend, the Chairman of the Committee, appreciates, and I should like my noble friend, the Under-Secretary, to appreciate also—to the fact that this Commission should go out without any information having been made public by the Government of India or by the Secretary of State here. The Committee desire that their proceedings shall be entirely independent of the views held either here or in India. The noble Earl, as I understood him, said that that also was his view to a certain extent, and that the Committee would, in the first instance at all events, meet without any publication being made in regard to the views of the Government, or of the Viceroy and his Council in India.719EARL BUXTON
720: My Lords, I find it a little difficult to follow the noble Earl on this point. I think I made it clear that no proposals of the Government of Burma will be published before the Committee begins its work. He will not, however, I imagine, deny the right of the Government of Burma to have an opinion as to what the solution should be. As he knows, the Government of Burma have already expressed their views as to what they think the arrangement with regard to the functions of Government should be, because those views have been submitted to the Committee, of which the noble Lord is a member. Those views will, of course, be put before the Commission: in Burma when it opens its Inquiry, and they will undoubtedly be put by the Government of Burma as their views and as representing their considered opinion. It would be impossible to deny to the Government of Burma the right to do that. That such views will carry weight with the Committee I have no doubt, but the mere fact that the Committee is appointed to consider such views means that the Committee will have full authority and absolute discretion to accept the views of the Government of Burma, or to reject them, and to report to Parliament in their favour or in opposition to them. It would, of course, be impossible to prevent the Government of Burma from having views and submitting them to the Committee. All I intended to say was that whatever the considered opinions of the Government of Burma or the Government of India might be, they would be submitted in due course to the Committee as evidence,
720THE EARL OF LYTTON
: The Amendment with which we are actually dealing is really unnecessary, because if the next Amendment which the noble Lord is moving is accepted, that alteration will be made automatically. I will mention that before I deal with the main point.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: Take the discussion upon it. It comes to the same thing.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
"British Dental Association in annual meeting assembled at Bath this day unanimously support Dentists Bill as submitted by Minister of Health.—(Signed) STUART CARTER, President.": The noble Lord has mentioned the qualified men, and has said that it is in their interests that he is moving these Amendments. Before I make any further observations I should like to read a telegram which I have just received from the British Dental Association. That Association is to dentistry very much what the British Medical Association is to medicine. It admits all qualified men. and all men registered under the Act of 1878. It is at present in session at Bath. This is the telegram:—
"British Dental Association in annual meeting assembled at Bath this day unanimously support Dentists Bill as submitted by Minister of Health.—(Signed) STUART CARTER, President."THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: That is the Committee of the Dental Association?LORD GREVILLE
en bloc726: Of the Dental Association. Dealing with the other remarks of the noble Lord, I should like to say that the object of the Bill is, as he has mentioned, to bring all those who are practising, or qualified to practise, dentistry under one government, and to exclude all other persons from the practice of dentistry. The number of persons actually practising dentistry, who are not registered under the Act of 1878, is at least two to one of those registered under that Act and possessing dentistry degrees. On the
en bloc726THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: What will protect the public?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
727: These qualifications—that the men must have practised for five out of the last seven years in this country, and so on. Supposing the noble Lord's Amendment were accepted, what would happen? Two lists would be prepared on the same register, instead of one list, as we propose, with the qualifications of each practitioner placed upon it. Anybody, therefore, who wishes to refer to the register and to see at a glance whether the man he wishes to consult has been placed on it under the terms of this Bill, or whether he would have been a registered dentist under the Act of 1878, can do so at once. Apparently, my noble friend wishes to have two lists. On the first, he wishes to put the men at present on the register, whom he proposes to call "dentists." The second will bear the names of those who are now practising, but who are un- qualified, the men who will be brought into the register by this Bill. These he proposes to call "dental practitioners." It seems to me that this is a very fine distinction, and I really do not see how many of the general public are to benefit by it. If anybody wishes to find out the exact qualifications of his dental attendant, he would be much more likely to consult the register and see
727THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Where is the noble Earl reading from?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
status" It is very doubtful if they could be brought under control of the 9hepherd of the sheep if they are to be treated as goats and kept outside the sheepfold."The Times,728: It is at the bottom of page 3 on the Marshalled List of Amendments. If your Lordships are pleased to accept this Amendment of mine, it will make it an offence for any person to describe himself as a surgeon dentist unless he is in possession of a degree recognised by the Dental Board. That is to say, the Dental Board will have power to say that certain degrees are recognised and that certain others are not recognised, so that a person who has a bogus degree as a surgeon will not be able to describe himself under the Act as a surgeon dentist. All those persons at present on the register (except a very few people still practising, who were admitted by the Act of 1878, although holding no degrees) are holders of degrees in dental surgery, and will therefore have the exclusive right of calling themselves surgeon dentists. I may, perhaps, note, in parenthesis, that the Act of 1878 was very much less stringent than the present Act and admitted to the register all those who were practising dentistry at the time of the passing of that Act. This Bill proposes much stricter qualifications.status" It is very doubtful if they could be brought under control of the 9hepherd of the sheep if they are to be treated as goats and kept outside the sheepfold."The Times,728THE EARL OF ONSLOW
732731730729: My noble friend, Lord Greville, when moving his Amendment, said he spoke on behalf of the qualified men. I venture to think that that is not quite accurate, because your Lordships have already heard the telegram which I had hoped I should have the honour of reading, but which my noble friend, Lord Onslow, has "bagged" from me, and which represents the decision at which the qualified dentists, assembled in their meeting to-day in Bath, have
732731730729VISCOUNT KNUTSFORD
" Scotland agreed to the Second Reading in the Commons on the understanding that the Amendments would be left to the unbiased decision of the Committee. The Government officially opposed Amendments, despite understanding. Beg you to support Lord Greville in interests of good government and good faith.— MEDICAL DENTAL DEFENCE UNION. SCOTLAND.": I must say, after hearing the speech of my noble friend, that I feel it requires some boldness to say a word or two on the other side. There has been a body of technical medical opinion hurled at our heads at which the bravest might quail. There is; this Dental Association in England from which a telegram was read by the noble Earl, and there is my noble friend, who is himself a great medical authority, with a unanimous Committee to back him. But; I am not sure, when we come to consider the thing very closely, that the case is so formidable as it appears. In the first place, as for this reading of telegrams from authorities in the country, we still have a United Kingdom, and I have a telegram from Scotland which says:—
" Scotland agreed to the Second Reading in the Commons on the understanding that the Amendments would be left to the unbiased decision of the Committee. The Government officially opposed Amendments, despite understanding. Beg you to support Lord Greville in interests of good government and good faith.— MEDICAL DENTAL DEFENCE UNION. SCOTLAND."THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Who are they?LORD RIDDELL
733" Will you, on behalf of Committee of Irish dentists, please support Lord Greville's Amendment to Dentists Bill this afternoon.": The noble Lord perhaps knows better than I do. At all events, I have concealed nothing. I hold another telegram from Ireland. This is addressed to another noble Lord, not to myself:—
733" Will you, on behalf of Committee of Irish dentists, please support Lord Greville's Amendment to Dentists Bill this afternoon."THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Rather more, I think.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Rather more than two to one. So you see it is proposed to dilute the dentists with double the number of unqualified dentists.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: They are there now.VISCOUNT KNUTSFORD
: They are in existence, but they are not called dentists, and anybody can see that they are a different kind of people. They are to be admitted, and Parliament, by a stroke of the pen, is going to say that 200 per cent. more than the existing dentists—200 per cent, who are admittedly not qualified men—are henceforth to be treated as qualified dentists. That may be right, but I submit that it wants a great deal of showing. What is the case for the Bill itself? It is that the existence of these unqualified dentists is a great mischief.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
:
Uncontrolled. VISCOUNT KNUTSFORD
: In any case, do not let my noble friend say that all that is required is discipline. He is the last man to despise skill and training and professional experience. No, the case for the Bill is that the existence of a vast body of unqualified dentists is a great mischief.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
734: No. We do not say that the existence of this large; number of unregistered men is a great mischief. We say that the fact they are
734VISCOUNT KNUTSFORD
: Does my noble friend really mean that the whole point is a matter of control—that it does not matter what skill a man has as a dentist, or whether he knows a front tooth from a back one, so long as he is controlled, and that then he may call himself a dentist; then he may impose his non-professional want of skill on the public, and nothing more is to be done? It is evident that the case for this Bill is, no doubt that they should be brought under control, but, above all things, that you should have in this country henceforward a register of properly qualified persons.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: In the future.VISCOUNT KNUTSFORD
ex hypothesi: In the future. Yes, but why should the present generation be handed over to unskilled dentists, because in the future you will have a better arrangement? No. It seems to me quite clear that this arrangement is one which will suit the dentists perhaps, will suit the unqualified dentists and will suit future generations, perhaps; but by a rigid and, as it seems to me, an inevitable argument, it shows that the people who will suffer are the existing public—the patients who are alive at this moment and have trouble with their teeth. It was either my noble friend or the noble Earl opposite who said that after all a great many of these unqualified dentists were fairly well skilled persons. That may be; I think it is very likely the case. But a good many of them are not, and why should a guarantee be given to the public in respect of all these men who are ex hypothesiTHE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
735: Can the noble Marquess tell us any way in which we are to control these men who are guilty of mal-
735VISCOUNT KNUTSFORD
: I will deal with that in a moment. What is it that my noble friend proposes? He does not propose that these men should be unregistered but that they should be put upon a different register. He proposes that they should be distinguished from the fully qualified dentist.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Is the noble Marquess referring to my proposal?VISCOUNT KNUTSFORD
: No; I am referring to the noble Earl's proposal.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: That is my proposal, too.VISCOUNT KNUTSFORD
: I do not know what the noble Viscount's proposal is. I am referring, as I said, to the proposal of the noble Earl.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: The noble Marquess will forgive me for interrupting him, but it is in the Bill that every dentist or dental practitioner, every man who is on the register, will have to state the reasons why he is on that register. If he has a degree it is because he is L.D.S. or D.D.S. If he is admitted by the Dental Board it will be so stated. So the distinction is stated in the register, which is what my noble friend wants.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
737736: It is true that if anybody inspects the particular register which is provided by the Bill, he will find all sorts of little notes opposite the names, but, as my noble friend said just now, that is very little protection. What we suggest for the consideration of your Lordships is that there should be a different register; not that there should be no register, but a different register, a register with a different name, so that the public may know perfectly well with whom key are dealing. If the public look at the noble Lord's list to see whether a man is admitted, I suppose the sort of thing they will find will be: "Admitted under
737736THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
738: We have listened with great respect to the contribution of the noble Marquess to this debate. If I may say so, no cue is a better critic than he of any legislative proposals that may be brought before this House. At the same time, the main point is to settle dental practice in this country on a better basis. We all know that the state of the teeth of the people of this country is very unsatisfactory. It is not a very pleasant topic to talk about. The noble Earl says, "Never mind," and I am sure if he, with his very nice disposition in these matters, does not mind, I certainly do not. One reason why the teeth of the people of this country are so bad is that dentistry is in an unsatisfactory state. Young men will not go through the curriculum and become dentists when they know perfectly well that they can act as dentists without going to that expense and trouble. The consequence is that the dental schools find great difficulty in securing a sufficient number of students.738LORD RIDDELL
: It will not wreck the Bill.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
status739: The noble Marquess says the Bill will not be wrecked, but he knows very well, as we all know, how easily
Bills are wrecked, and how slight Amendments, which often seem innocuous, wreck Bills. For some years I have taken a keen interest in this subject, and I know bow necessary it is that steps should be taken to improve the practice of dentistry in this country. If I may say so, I am speaking to-day—and I do not often
trouble the House—because I have been bombarded by a number of friends who, like myself, have been taking a keen
interest in this topic, and I appeal to the House not to allow this Bill to fall through on this point. The noble Marquess says
that if the, Bill contained the, safeguards I which he mentioned he would not oppose, it. I do not know whether lie has read the Bill, but if he has not read it, I would ask him to do so, because it, contains the carefully considered proposals, first of all,
of the Committee which was set up to I take evidence on the, matter; secondly, of the British Dental Association; and
thirdly, of the Government.status739LORD RIDDELL
740: The noble Marquess told us about the poor. In my view, the best way to protect the poor is to I protect them from dentists who are not under proper control. It would be a great misfortune if this Bill wore lost through the insertion here of Amendments which might be opposed in the House of Commons. I know that the Dental Association have agreed to the admission of these gentlemen with reluctance, but they see the absolute necessity of having some body which would exercise control over dentists. I listened to the speech of my noble friend, Viscount Knutsford, who, I think, said almost everything that can be said in support of this measure. I may add, however, that when I was Paymaster-General I took the greatest interest in our old soldiers at Chelsea Hospital, and I was very much impressed always by the reflection that their lives would have been much happier if their teeth had been properly treated. I think it is of the greatest importance that
740LORD SOUTHWARK
741: I do not intend to detain the House for more than a moment, but I wish to make one observation in reply to the noble Marquess, who said that what he was mainly concerned with—and, of course, it is what we are all mainly concerned with—is the welfare of the patients. As noble Lords have truly said, dental practice in this country leaves much to be desired, and I submit that this Bill as it stands is designed in the best, manner to give effect to what we all desire to see—namely, dental practice improved. The main object of the Bill is to bring all those who are practising dentistry under control and discipline. It also seeks to ensure that only persons with a certain amount of skill shall be engaged in the practice of dentistry. The noble Marquess said that five years of practice and of earning a living in a particular trade is no particular criterion of a man's skill, but I say that if a man has been practising dentistry for five years, and has been earning his livelihood in that profession for that number of years, he obviously must possess a certain degree of skill; otherwise, his patients would not have confidence in him, and he would not be able to continue the practice of his profession for so many years. Therefore, I contend that the qualifications which are introduced into this Bill do safeguard the public, and ensure that they shall be able to obtain men of skill and knowledge of their profession.741THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: All the Amendments in my name down to subsection (5) are consequential on House of Commons Amendments.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The Amendments to this clause are drafting.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The Amendment I have put down to this clause is also consequential. Its object is to guard against the possibility of evasion.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Amendment to the First Schedule is purely drafting.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The Amendment to this Schedule is merely to correct a misprint.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I beg to move that this clause be omitted.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
798797: My Lords, in reference to what the noble Lord who has just sat down said, I would point out that we have all been considering this question for some time. The noble Lord is not the only member of this House who has taken a great interest in it. Not less interest has been taken in it by other members of your Lordships' House, and by the members of the House of Commons, and by the public. We have all considered it, and
798797LORD TENTERDEN
: It was published in the papers as the owners' terms.LORD TENTERDEN
b: My Lords, I beg to move in paragraph (bTHE PARLIAMENTA.RY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: What is the mistranslation?THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
" Shall exercise a strict control over the traffic in arms and ammunition and the sate of spirituous liquors.""Shall protect the natives from abuse and measures of fraud and force by the careful super-vision of labour contracts and the recruiting of labour."757" Shall prohibit all forms of forced or compulsory labour, except for essential public works and services, and then only in return for adequate remuneration."" For the eventual emancipation of all slaves, and for as speedy an elimination of domestic and other slavery as social conditions will allow."756"The degree of authority, control, or administration to he exercised by the Mandatory shall, if not previously agreed upon by the Members of the League, be explicitly defined in each case by the Council."755thethe territory: I do not suggest that it affects the meaning, but I think the proper translation is "defence of " Shall exercise a strict control over the traffic in arms and ammunition and the sate of spirituous liquors.""Shall protect the natives from abuse and measures of fraud and force by the careful super-vision of labour contracts and the recruiting of labour."757" Shall prohibit all forms of forced or compulsory labour, except for essential public works and services, and then only in return for adequate remuneration."" For the eventual emancipation of all slaves, and for as speedy an elimination of domestic and other slavery as social conditions will allow."756"The degree of authority, control, or administration to he exercised by the Mandatory shall, if not previously agreed upon by the Members of the League, be explicitly defined in each case by the Council."755thethe territoryLORD PARMOOR
mutatis mutandis.759la défense du territoire.: My Lords, I should like, first of all, to express my thanks to the noble Lord, Lord Par-moor, for the full notice which he gave me of the various Questions he has raised to-day. Firstly, I am going to reply to the Question he asked regarding Article 22 of the Covenant of the League. He asked whether the Covenant regards this as a trust for the benefit of the Mandated area, and not for the Mandatory. The reply to that is in the affirmative. The noble Lord asked, secondly, whether this is not emphasised in the use of the word "tutelage." Again, the reply is in the affirmative. The noble Lord says he is not immediately concerned with the Turkish Empire:Validate, but he wishes to know the Government's view of the words—" the wishes of these communities must be the principal consideration in the selection of the Mandatory." I think I can only refer the noble Lord to Inv speech in this House on June 15, and to that of the Leader of the House on. March 14, in which the matter was discussed at great length.mutatis mutandis.759la défense du territoire.THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: My Lords, I wish to thank the noble Duke for the answers he has given, and for t he information he has supplied.LORD PARMOOR
: I shall be glad to give the noble Lord any futher information if he will give me previous notice.THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
773772771770769: My Lords, before I say a very few words indeed with regard to the general question which Lord Islington has brought before your Lordships, may I refer to three or four particular points, upon each of which a sentence or two would be enough for my purpose? In the first place, let me thank the noble Duke for the information with which he supplied me, in answer to a Question which I put a short time ago, with regard to what was being done in Palestine in connection with a survey to ascertain what territory was suitable for immigration. Lord Islington referred to the case of Kurdistan. I think we should have a little more information with regard to the precise nature of the relations that we are going to undertake towards that extremely difficult country.773772771770769VISCOUNT BRYCE
776775774: My Lords, the questions which have been raised in regard to this matter this afternoon are of extreme importance. A limited financial explanation has been given in another place by the Secretary of State, and the other House has received a good deal of information which has reached this House only through the medium of the public Press. There has also been a debate of a somewhat inconclusive and not very searching character in another place, whereas it may be impossible to raise a similar debate in this House. My noble friend has spoken of the Mandates which have not yet received Parliamentary sanction but which now appear, as I understand the matter, to be under the consideration of the Council of the League of Nations. Those Mandates entail responsibilities and unknown expenditure upon this country. On the other hand, they may be said, in a certain sense, to destroy the sovereign rights of the Mandatory Power and to set up what may almost amount to international control over territories in which the responsibility for maintaining order will fall wholly upon this country.776775774LORD SYDENHAM
: I did not say the League of Nations was illusory. I think the idea is admirable.VISCOUNT BRYCE
: The noble Viscount hinted that the Covenant was ill-digested. All these questions require rather more light than we have now got, and if the excellent suggestion of the noble Viscount could be carried out, and a Joint Committee set up, I think the confidence Parliament would have in what is going forward would be much greater than it is at the present moment. We seem to be involved in an abyss of heavy expenditure without any corresponding advantage to our overburdened taxpayers, some of whom are really now on the road to ruin. We ought to be enabled to understand whither we are being led by the League of Nations and its Covenant.LORD SYDENHAM
779778777: My Lords, I desire to say very few words upon the general question, but there are one or two remarks that I should like to utter in endorsement of those already made by the three speakers to-night. In this matter we seem sometimes to be rather worrying and pestering the Government with Questions. I do not want to be worrying arid pestering, because I realise to the full the enormous difficulty
779778777THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
783mutatis mutandisstatus782781780f(4) A contribution towards the cost of the High Commissioner and his staff, who have Imperial responsibilities which are not purely local (sub-head (fg(3) The maintenance of native levies which are being established as a means of reducing the cost of the Imperial garrison (sub-head (gh(2) The capital expenditure on the railways, which are the property of His Majesty's Government, and not of the Mesopotamian Government (sub-head (hji(1) The discharge of Imperial liabilities which do not really belong to Mesopotamia (sub-heads (ji
f(4) A contribution towards the cost of the High Commissioner and his staff, who have Imperial responsibilities which are not purely local (sub-head (fg(3) The maintenance of native levies which are being established as a means of reducing the cost of the Imperial garrison (sub-head (gh(2) The capital expenditure on the railways, which are the property of His Majesty's Government, and not of the Mesopotamian Government (sub-head (hji(1) The discharge of Imperial liabilities which do not really belong to Mesopotamia (sub-heads (jijihgf: My Lords, I shall take the opportunity, in the first place, of referring categorically to the speech made by the noble Lord, Lord Islington, though we have all listened with much interest to the remarks made to-night by other noble Lords, and by the most. rev. Primate. I will take the Questions in the order in which Lord Islington asked them. The first Question that was raised was in regard to the civil administration in Mesopotamia. The Vote for Middle Eastern Services, which was passed on Tuesday by the House of Commons, shows what is the estimated charge upon the British taxpayer for this year. The figures are given under sub-heads (783mutatis mutandisstatus782781780f(4) A contribution towards the cost of the High Commissioner and his staff, who have Imperial responsibilities which are not purely local (sub-head (fg(3) The maintenance of native levies which are being established as a means of reducing the cost of the Imperial garrison (sub-head (gh(2) The capital expenditure on the railways, which are the property of His Majesty's Government, and not of the Mesopotamian Government (sub-head (hji(1) The discharge of Imperial liabilities which do not really belong to Mesopotamia (sub-heads (ji
f(4) A contribution towards the cost of the High Commissioner and his staff, who have Imperial responsibilities which are not purely local (sub-head (fg(3) The maintenance of native levies which are being established as a means of reducing the cost of the Imperial garrison (sub-head (gh(2) The capital expenditure on the railways, which are the property of His Majesty's Government, and not of the Mesopotamian Government (sub-head (hji(1) The discharge of Imperial liabilities which do not really belong to Mesopotamia (sub-heads (jijihgfTHE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: I am very much obliged to the noble Duke for the very explicit answers he has given to my Questions and I ask leave to withdraw my Motion.LORD ISLINGTON
789788787786" The Council invites the United States to take part in the discussions at its forthcoming meeting, when the final decisions as to the "A" and "B" Mandates will, it is hoped, be taken. A problem so intricate and involved as that of Mandates can hardly be handled by the inter-
786"The Council had already determined on February 21., before the receipt of the American Note, to postpone the consideration of the "A" Mandates fur former Turkish possessions, including Mesopotamia. No conclusion will, therefore, be reached with regard to "A" Mandates until the United States Government has had an opportunity to express its views. The Council had expected to approve finally, at the session now being held, the "B" Mandates for the former Central African colonies for Germany. In view of the desire expressed by the United States, the Council is, however, deferring its consideration of those Mandates until its next session. which will probably take place in May or June. It is hoped that the delay will not hamper the administrative progress of these territories.785784: My Lords, I think that before the noble Lord withdraws his Motion, both he and the most rev. Primate may expect a few words to come from me. The noble Duke has answered with fulness and precision the Questions that have been addressed to him from different quarters of the House that mainly affect his Department. But it is quite true, as the most rev. Primate pointed out, that outside the frontiers of the Colonial Department, in its relation to Mandated territories, lies a somewhat undefined range of country which concerns the Government as a whole, and, in some respects, the Foreign Office in particular; and certainly, should be the last to complain on any occasion of this sort if questions were put to which the representative of the Colonial Office was unable, or felt it undesirable, to answer, but as to which a reply might legitimately be demanded from me.789788787786" The Council invites the United States to take part in the discussions at its forthcoming meeting, when the final decisions as to the "A" and "B" Mandates will, it is hoped, be taken. A problem so intricate and involved as that of Mandates can hardly be handled by the inter-
786"The Council had already determined on February 21., before the receipt of the American Note, to postpone the consideration of the "A" Mandates fur former Turkish possessions, including Mesopotamia. No conclusion will, therefore, be reached with regard to "A" Mandates until the United States Government has had an opportunity to express its views. The Council had expected to approve finally, at the session now being held, the "B" Mandates for the former Central African colonies for Germany. In view of the desire expressed by the United States, the Council is, however, deferring its consideration of those Mandates until its next session. which will probably take place in May or June. It is hoped that the delay will not hamper the administrative progress of these territories.785784THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
: I beg leave to withdraw the Motion.LORD ISLINGTON
: If that was so it was published wrongly. I have here the proposal in the ballot paper which says "Government and the owners." Whether a. more definite statement can be made I do not know. Lord Ribblesdale will do the Government this justice, that constantly, in replying to Questions in Parliament and otherwise, statements, and I think clear statements, are given out and published in all the papers. Whether anything more could be done I do not know. If we have no autumn session members will be able to go to their constituencies and explain the matter, hilt I doubt whether any advantage would be obtained by adopting the noble Lord's proposal. As regards reading matter we have great difficulty, as we know, in the constituencies, of getting people to read anything. We have pushed under their doors thousands of pamphlets which are not used for the purpose of literature but for very much humbler purposes. I will not follow Lord Emmott into the effect of the strike on our export trade which is, of course, so great, but I will bring his remarks to the notice of the Department.VISCOUNT PEEL
: The noble Lord spoke with absolute clearness and I think I apprehended him clearly. I am now dealing with the general proposition of the difficulty of dealing with the men and not with their leaders. Any trouble that would subsequently arise would, with absolute certainty, be put down to the fact that the Government intervened, and it would he said that it was their clumsiness which spoilt everything. The noble Lord —I give him credit for the suggestion—said this should be done with the leave, informally or otherwise, of the miners' leaders. I never like to say "No" to a valuable suggestion. What I think would be said of that is that the matter has already been put very clearly by the miners' leaders themselves to their men, and to suggest that the Government should do so implies a want of lucidity on the part of the miners' representatives.VISCOUNT PEEL
799: My Lords, I think everybody will be obliged to my noble friend, Lord Ribblesdale, for making at this time any suggestion which may tend either to bring to an end or mitigate the terrible industrial strife in which we are now engaged. From the point of view of the Government there is a most deplorable ignorance in many quarters as to many political and social issues. I am afraid that at the last few elections there has been no sign that the virtues of the Coalition have either been sufficiently appreciated or understood by the large majority of the voters.799THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
800: The noble Viscount is interested not so much in investigation as in clarity of thinking. I rather regretted sonic of the expressions he used. When we are all hoping that these troubles will come to an end, he seems to suggest to those engaged in the dispute to go on, on the ground that the Government might make some change at the last moment. It throws, at any rate, an absurd light on the proposals of the noble Lord. If the Government themselves so thoroughly misunderstand the whole industrial situation, it would be absurd for them to try to explain it to the miners.800VISCOUNT PEEL
: That is quite a different Quest-ion from the one on the Paper.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Yes; I have been doing my best to think it out. My solution —I dare say my noble friend will say it is impossible—is profit-sharing and co-partnership. I believe that by that, and that alone, will you arrive at what we want—the greater interest of the workers both in profits and in control, and a retention of that inducement to work which is the most important matter of all, and which hitherto every scheme of nationalisation has removed.LORD EMMOTT
796795: My Lords, I have listened with great interest to what my noble friend, Lord Haldane, has said, and in one matter I most strongly agree with him. I do not like the idea, of fighting this matter out, if it can possibly be settled in any other way. I do not know whether the condition of things to-day is such that any debate in your Lordships' House, or in another place, can help matters. I very much doubt it. My noble friend, Lord Haldane, has thrown out some suggestions, but I do wish, in regard to this matter, that he would not be so vague. He says that we are not thinking it out. Good Heavens!what else have we been thinking about for many months past? I had no intention of speaking when I came down and I may not put the case very clearly, but if I may offer my own theory of the situation, I sincerely believe that the miners, like a great many other people, have suffered a good deal of psycho-
796795LORD EMMOTT
: My Lords, there are one or two things I wanted to say, and as Clause 3 was not discussed in Committee, I hope I may be permitted to say them now. The noble and learned Lord in charge of the Bill has said that this is a very mild measure. I think he is right, but, if that is so, whether it becomes a success or not will depend entirely upon the way in which it is administered. That, in turn, will depend upon the Advisory Committee which is being set up. Under Clause 3 there are to be always three representatives of the plumage trade. I think that is rather liberal, and should myself have preferred that these gentlemen should be treated as witnesses and not as judges, because they are deeply interested pecuniarily in the importation of plumage. On the other hand, there are representative bodies which have taken a most active part in the promotion of the Bill and have its objects most closely at heart.LORD SYDENHAM
: Think it out.VISCOUNT HALDANE
794793: My Lords, I feel very great sympathy with the suggestion that has been made by my noble friend, Lord Ribblesdale, but before the Government reply there are a few remarks I should like to make. It may be very useful to make a very plain statement of the terms that have been offered so that the men may consider them. I see that good might come of that. but I confess that I have not. any very great confidence in an apparent result. The fact is that the men are very much more intelligent about these things than we give them credit for being. They have their own local newspapers. They are discussing this subject all day long. They know very well what these terms are. What they have been fighting for are not sixpences and shillings, not wages simply. but the conditions under which they carry an their industry.794793VISCOUNT HALDANE
: I said investigation.VISCOUNT HALDANE
: To the best of my control of English and putting English words together, I thought I made it clear that my proposals were entirely subject to the approval of the executive committee of the Miners' Federation.LORD RIBBLESDALE
792" If a Proclamation were to be posted at once at every colliery in the United Kingdom, and at the same time published in every newspaper in the United Kingdom, to the effect that His Majesty's Government is prepared, subject to the approval of the Miners' Federation, to consider that the 183,827 miners who voted in favour of accepting the terms offered by the Government and by the owners are justified in now, at once, returning to work in their respective collieries "—Times791" They have the right to claim that, having accepted the terms, they must be allowed to exercise their right to return to work in their various collieries at once on the terms and conditions which they have accepted."790The Times: My Lords, I desire to draw attention to suggestions that have been made that the response of the Miners to the proposals made by the Government might be larger if the men understood the terms offered them better; and to ask His Majesty's Government whether it is possible to take any steps for this purpose. I should like first to say that I put down this Question not with any intention of making more difficult the difficult water through which the Government is steering us just now (at least I hope it is steering us through) in this coal question; nor did I put it down as one associated either with owners or with miners, or even with any of the great industries in this country. I put it down as a member of the large general public, who find themselves sandwiched rather uncomfortably at present between these competitors.792" If a Proclamation were to be posted at once at every colliery in the United Kingdom, and at the same time published in every newspaper in the United Kingdom, to the effect that His Majesty's Government is prepared, subject to the approval of the Miners' Federation, to consider that the 183,827 miners who voted in favour of accepting the terms offered by the Government and by the owners are justified in now, at once, returning to work in their respective collieries "—Times791" They have the right to claim that, having accepted the terms, they must be allowed to exercise their right to return to work in their various collieries at once on the terms and conditions which they have accepted."790The TimesLORD RIBBLESDALE
: My Lords, I must thank the noble Viscount for his very clear reply to my Question. I am not going to make a speech now, but it is, of course, quite plain that, if Lord Haldane is right, the miners' executive may snap their lingers at my proposal. If, on the other hand, Lord Haldane is wrong, I believe that. something might still be done. This is not my suggestion; I am only representing it. I think it provides an opportunity, and I submit it, not only to His Majesty's Government, but to every thinking man—or rather, not only to every thinking man, but to every man who burns a fire, or who is interested in the trade of the country—that something of that sort is worth trying, even now.LORD RIBBLESDALE
802: It may be a different Question, or a different way of approaching it, but I cannot help thinking that it is a perfectly orthodox way of approaching it, because it would not mean, as my noble friend suggests, that the Government would be going to the men behind the back of the official organisation,
802LORD ISLINGTON
: My Lords, I will not detain the House for more than one moment, but this is certainly the most urgent and grave matter with which we have to deal at the present time. I am not going to attempt to discuss the speeches which have been made by noble Lords on either side, but I feel that the point which was made by my noble friend was not the real point at issue. I do not think it is a question of lucidity of explanation to the miners that influenced Lord Ribblesdale in bringing forward this question. What he desires to obtain from the Government is an assurance that they will still use all their powers of intervention to keep the door open for a final and an early settlement.LORD ISLINGTON
836: My Lords, the noble Lord has stated that there is no opposition to the Bill, and so far as the
836THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, I see the noble Earl, the First Commissioner of Works, in his place. May I ask if it will be convenient for him to make a statement as to the future course of business in this House?LORD BALFOUR OF BURLEIGH
: My Lords, I can only make a statement about the next two or three days. I have to inform your Lordships that the Unemployment Insurance Bill is expected to pass through the House of Commons this evening, and the Department concerned, for technical reasons, is very anxious that the Bill should pass into law on Thursday next, upon which date the variations in the amounts to be paid in unemployment benefit mature. I therefore suggest to your Lordships that we should take the First and Second Readings of the Unemployment Insurance Bill to-morrow, and the remaining stages on Thursday. In that case it will be necessary for me, or rather for my noble friend, Lord Curzon, to-morrow, to move the consideration of the relevant Standing Orders, in order to allow the two stages to be taken in the same sitting.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
808: I do not suggest that the noble Marquess should express any opinion now, because, as he says, he has not had an opportunity of studying the text of the measure. My noble friend, Lord Clarendon, will explain the measure completely to your Lordships.808THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
811810ad nauseam809: My Lords, this is a Bill which proposes a slight alteration in the Marriage Law, which is already in force in many portions of the British Empire, in the majority of the States of America 'and in most of the countries of the European Continent What is perhaps more to the point, it is a measure which passed the House of Commons without any opposition and makes its appearance here strengthened and, to some extent, amended by Amendments put in by the representative of the Home Office in the House of Commons. The object of the Bill is simplicity itself: it is to remove the anomaly in the present law which prohibits marriage with a deceased brother's widow, and legalises it in connection with a deceased wife's sister. The first comment which, I think, any impartial person would make upon the proposal is to ask why this anomaly was not dealt with in 1907 when the Deceased Wife's Sister's Marriage Bill was passed. I am not in the secrets of the promoters of that Bill. I had nothing to do with it, beyond voting for it, when it came here, and I do not know what their motives were, but I presume that they were animated by the usual view that it is desirable to overweight a Bill as little as possible, and to obtain one thing at a time.811810ad nauseam809LORD NEWTON
: My Lords, I will not detain you very long, but I should like to inform you of the attitude of the Government in relation to this Bill. The question as to whether marriage with a deceased brother's widow should be permitted or not is one which, so far as we are concerned, should be left to the unfettered judgment of Parliament. When this Bill was introduced in another place, Amendments were proposed by the Government in order that the deceased brother's widow should be in exactly the same position, so far as the law of the country is concerned, as the deceased wife's sister. Our view is that if Parliament should see fit to sanction marriage with a deceased brother's widow, it is necessary to maintain the law in regard thereto in exactly the same position as has been laid down in the Deceased Wife's Sister's. Marriage Act.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: My Lords, the most rev. Primate has stated his case, as he always does, with great moderation. The one main difference between him and myself is that he appears to have had no evidence brought before him of the demand for this Bill. To me, on the other hand, people have been coming who are personally interested in the matter, and I have had evidence from a much larger region, with which I will deal later. The Government have left the matter open, and that fact implies that what is asked for in the Bill is merely a civil marriage. There is no suggestion, and the most rev. Primate did not indicate there was any desire, to compel the Church to recognise marriages of a religious character to which it objects.VISCOUNT HALDANE
: I deliberately omitted that branch of the subject.THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
a priorimodo et farma821820: I gathered that the most rev. Primate agrees that this is
a priorimodo et farma821820VISCOUNT HALDANE
823822: My Lords, I rise for a very brief moment to express the hope that your Lordships will take full advantage, in the direction of forwarding this reform, of the circumstance that for once a Bill has come to us from the Lower House instead of proceeding from this House to another place. We have been bitterly
823822THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
: Very great.THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
826825824: The distinction between "overwhelming" and very great "is, no doubt, important, but it does not affect the course of the argument. The most rev. Primate was aware that there was a very great demand for this change, but he and his friends felt it necessary to resist it, and attempted to give effect to that resistance by a series of the most gloomy predictions that I have ever heard, all of which, so
826825824THE LORD CHANCELLOR
829828827: My Lords, the subject of marriage is, I imagine, not only the most difficult but in many of its aspects the most repulsive subject which can engage the debates of a great Assembly like this. I never entered into a debate with a more literally open mind than I do to-day. The question of marriage with a deceased husband's brother raises these two questions in my mind. I ask first, as I am bound to ask, Is any principle of sound (which is for me one of Christian) morality, violated? The other question, which follows when that has been satisfactorily answered in the negative, is this: Is it expedient in the interests of the national morals that this particular proposal should pass into law?829828827THE LORD BISHOP OF DURHAM
" It is an exceptional case and that is the reason why we are pressing this Bill. Of all the marriages coming under the law of affinity nine-tenths belong to this category."" I should have thought the very simple reason for that was that there had been no wish for it and, therefore, at the present moment it has never been discussed before the country, and I do not believe that any one has any great desire for it."831830; My Lords, I do not suppose that, outside members of the House of Commons, who, I imagine, read their Bills, there were fifty people who knew that this measure was passing through Parliament till after it had passed the Second Reading in the House of Commons, and not many after that. To say that there was any demand for it, that there had been any petitions for it, or any discussion in the papers upon it, is an entire mistake. Not having had the honour of being a member of your Lordships' House in 1907, when the Deceased Wife's Sister's Marriage Bill came before your Lordships on the last occasion, I made it my business when this Bill reached us, to study the debates in the OFFICIAL REPORT in both Houses. I read certain speeches, amongst others, from the noble Lord upon the Woolsack, who was then in the other House. There were but three arguments urged in favour of the Bill and but three against it, and they went backwards and forwards." It is an exceptional case and that is the reason why we are pressing this Bill. Of all the marriages coming under the law of affinity nine-tenths belong to this category."" I should have thought the very simple reason for that was that there had been no wish for it and, therefore, at the present moment it has never been discussed before the country, and I do not believe that any one has any great desire for it."831830LORD PHILLIMORE
: Yes.LORD NEWTON
832: If that is so, and if it is brought as a case of hardship and it is really thought that they acted in ignor
832LORD PHILLIMORE
833: My Lords, I confess that the speeches to which I have listened in this debate have left me in a state of complete bewilderment. I understood and I greatly enjoyed the speech that was made by the noble and learned Lord upon the Woolsack, but I must admit that I have been unable to understand the foundation of some of the other speeches that have been made on the other side. The speech of the noble Lord who has just sat down is an example of what I mean. As I understand it, he objects to this Bill on the ground that it is impossible for anybody to show that there is a large, continuous, and important demand for its passage. I can very well understand that as an argument why the time of Parliament should not be occupied in the introduction of a measure, but I cannot understand it as any argument at all why, when a measure is before the House, it should be rejected.833LORD BUCKMASTER
837: My Lords, this is essentially a Money Bill
837THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: My Lords, on that Motion I wish to ask the House, not to-day but on a future occasion. to entertain an Amendment which will have the effect of causing the expenses of apportionment contemplated by this Bill not to fall entirely upon the person who becomes entitled to the annuity. It obviously lays upon him the duty of collecting from a large number of small payers instead of one, and that is a disadvantage to him. Those whom I represent have no wish to stop the passage of this Bill which will free the land from inconvenient charges, but they think it right that those who get the principal benefit should bear the greater part of the expense. I shall place an Amendment on the Paper for Third Reading in that sense. I believe it is one which has been considered by the Ministry and will not be objected to by my noble friend.LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
: My Lords, this Bill deals with a simple matter upon which, I believe, there is no controversy. It has passed through all its stages in another place without any difficulty. It is intended to give security of tenure to two classes of public servants—medical officers of health and sanitary inspectors, which, I understand, includes also inspectors of nuisances. The Bill is confined to certain of these individuals. It is necessary that some security should be provided under the law to those who occupy important positions, such as senior medical officers of health and senior sanitary inspectors. These men often have difficult duties to perform, and unless they have security of tenure there is a danger, consciously or unconsciously, of their being under some restraint in the performance of their dutes.LORD GAINFORD
: My Lords, I am afraid that I have not had an opportunity yet of studying the Bill, nor do I know what course would be open to your Lordships in regard to it. We receive with proper respect the announcement of the noble Earl, and I think he will allow us to consider what course we shall take, and will give us a few hours before we express any opinion.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, I submit the Motion which stands in the name of my noble friend, the Leader of the House, in relation to this Bill, namely, "That Standing Order No. XXXIX be suspended for this day's sitting in order to take the First and Second Readings of the said Bill." I regret that at this stage of the session it should be necessary to invite the House to suspend the Standing Orders in relation to a Bill, and particularly to a Bill of this importance. The House of Commons tried so to arrange their business as to secure that this Bill should reach this House in time to make any such Motion unnecessary, but unfortunately there was an unexpected pressure of business, and the Bill passed through that House only yesterday. My noble friend, Lord Clarendon, who will explain the provisions of the Bill to your Lordships, will make it clear why it is necessary that the Bill should receive the Royal Assent, as we hope it may receive it, to-morrow.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
The Earl of Crawford.844: My noble friend will explain the reason why he is going to ask the House to pass this suspension of the Standing Orders to-day, and equally the change of the Standing Orders to-morrow, and he will explain to your Lordships that unless we can get the Royal Assent by Thursday the increase of cost to the Exchequer will probably be £500,000 sterling. That is the reason why I invite your Lordships to accept the Motion which
The Earl of Crawford.844 THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Does Lord Salisbury mean to amend the Motion that is on the Paper, so as to take more days over the Bill?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I am only asking that two stages should be taken to-day.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
847: My Lords, before the noble Lord rises, I do not know whether it would be inconvenient for me to ascertain his view upon a point to which I will shortly call his attention. The matter which the noble Lord desires to raise is well known to your Lordships. He can support that which he urges by very powerful argument, and I realise plainly that the matter must be argumentatively discussed in this House at an early date. The consideration which at this moment I would suggest to him is the following. As he knows, at the present moment there are pending arrangements which may have the result of bringing to London representatives of the Northern and Southern Parliaments. I carefully guard myself from stating an expectation in more sanguine terms than those which I have used. If such discussion is to take place, I should be unwilling that any observations I might have to make to the noble Lord should be made until the discussion has taken place. Because whether it be likely or whether it be unlikely, if the discussions assume a favourable complexion it is quite obvious that not only this matter but many other
847THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
sub judice848: My Lords, it is very difficult to resist such an appeal as has been made to me by the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, particularly as I know the deep interest he takes in Ireland and the friendliness which he has so often shown to those of your Lordships who come from Ireland, when we have had occasion to approach him on the subject. At the same time, I cannot help thinking that this is not a subject which ought to be involved in any of the negotiations which are to take place between the Government and the representatives of Northern or Southern opinion in Ireland. I desired to submit to the House that this was a matter to which the Government were pledged; that unless the pledge was carried out, or a promise was made that it would he carried out, the Government would be in a less favourable position to approach the negotiations which are in view.sub judice848LORD ORANMORE AND BROWNE
849: My Lords, I should like to say something with regard
849THE EARL OF MAYO
: My Lords, although I do not see eye to eye with some of your Lordships who come from Ireland in regard to the Irish question, I am going to support the noble Lord, Lord Oranmore and Browne, because I think the position of His Majesty's Government would be greatly strengthened if some declaration were made that. the British Government are willing to adhere to their words, over and over again spoken, and that this Irish Land Bill is intended to be passed, whether or not negotiations are happily concluded between the two Parties. I therefore, briefly but earnestly, add my appeal to the noble and learned Lord to give us, as far as he possibly can, some expression of hope at all events that the British Government intend to show clearly to the Irish people that they are not going to play fast and loose with their words.THE EARL OF MEATH
852851850: My Lords, the noble Lord who asked the Question certainly assented in the spirit, if not in the letter; to the suggestion I was bold enough to make to him, but he enlarged
852851850THE LORD CHANCELLOR
853: My Lords, it probably will be convenient to follow the course which has been suggested by the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, and not to take this discussion at any length on the present occasion, but the observations which the noble and learned Lord has made, do, I think, call for one or two words. He spoke with customary modesty of the weariness which would befall noble Lords if they were to refresh their memories by reading the important speech he delivered a few nights ago in this House. I am sure that no such feeling would befall any noble Lord in consequence of such a perusal; and I speak with all the more confidence because I have carefully read it within a brief period of the present moment. I confess that the reading of that speech did not leave upon my mind exactly the impression which the noble and learned Lord has stated but which, no doubt, is what he must have intended. On the contrary, although there are several passages in it which do conform to what he has said, there are also passages in which he explained that what is called fiscal autonomy in Ireland was inconsistent with the fiscal arrangements of this country, and he did not believe any one would consent to them. That is the impression which a careful perusal of his speech left on my mind. I do not think it would be right or proper, certainly not in order, for me to pursue the matter further now.853THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: To avoid any misunderstanding, I will make it quite plain that I adhere to every word I said on the subject of fiscal autonomy, maintaining the description of fiscal autonomy which was contained in my speech. I am not aware of anything in the observations I made then which I have to correct or modify.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: After the remarks of the noble and learned Lord, I propose to act upon his advice and put down the Question for a later date. I could reply to some of the criticisms he has made in regard to the Land Purchase Bill, but in the circumstances it would not be proper for me to do so. I think the House will agree that the Question has not been asked in vain, as it has elicited from the noble and learned Lord an interesting statement which has shed some gleams of light on what appeared to many of us to be the appalling gloom which pervaded his speech of last week. When the Question is again raised I hope that the negotiations now in progress may be reaching a favourahle conclusion.LORD ORANMORE AND BROWNE
: My noble friend means "from" not "on" a 25-inch ordnance survey map.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: From a 25-inch ordnance survey map. That entails expenditure in the shape of purchasing plans, and it involves the unfortunate farmer in the employment of a land surveyor at great expense, because, as everybody who has any connection at all with farming knows, to set down the various crops in detail, as is here required, is an enormous business. And when it is done, it is of absolutely no use at all, except to statisticians in Government offices, because crops change very frequently on many farms; there might, for instance, be hay stacks on a certain farm in one month which will have disappeared a short time later. I fail to see, therefore, why such expenditure should be imposed upon the unfortunate farmer. I hope that the noble Earl who represents the Ministry of Agriculture in this House will see the Question very much from my point of view. I saw his answer to a question the other day concerning the Chequers estate. I regret I was not present, but it was to the effect that he hoped Chequers would be made into a paying concern for the benefit of, and as an example to, agriculture. If that course were pursued, and these overhead charges and unnecessary inspections omitted, I think the farmers would be generally satisfied and bless the noble Earl. I beg to ask the Question standing in my name on the Paper.LORD ABINGER
857856: My Lords, I will deal first, if I may, with the noble Lord's Question on the Paper. The form of claim which is prescribed by subsection (2) of Section 3 of the Corn Production Act, 1917, for a payment which may become due under
857856THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
858: I desire to thank the noble Earl for the full answer he has given to my Question. With regard to the observation that Part I of the Agri
858LORD ABINGER
: An engagement that we will not finish the Bill tomorrow?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: After what I have told your Lordships I think you will understand that I cannot agree to that. It is easy for Lord Salisbury to say that the Departments exaggerate the dangers of delay, but my information is that unless this Bill is passed on Thursday next, which is indeed a very late day to bring into effect the new arrangements it lays down, the postponement will involve a continuation of the existing rates of benefit, which would cost the taxpayer £500,000. That is the urgent reason why I felt myself justified in inviting your Lordships to take the remaining stages tomorrow.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
morale868: My Lords, I rise to say a few words only upon two points. The first is to endorse the remarks made by the noble Lord, Lord Joicey, with regard to the importance of administration of this unemployment grant. I could wish the Minister had put into this Bill some further provisions by which the giving of these grants might have been more carefully looked after. Most of your Lordships know that there are complaints in many parts of the country as to the kind of people who are receiving them. Doles are being made to some people who are practically living in idleness and showing a very bad example to the district in which they reside. It is like a sore in a district to have some loafer, or some woman who ought to be in domestic service, drawing payment from the State, and showing such a bad example to other people in the neighbourhood. It is very important that this
morale868LORD ASKWITH
" In the Second Reading Debate I made an appeal which I now wish to repeat with emphasis. To be entitled to the benefit, a person, among other things, must prove that he is genuinely seeking work and is unable to obtain suitable employment. The only way in which that test can be applied is for me to be in a position to say, Here is a vacancy which appears suitable for you. If you do not take it, I am bound tee suspend your benefit and submit your case tee the referee.' There is only one field, of course, in which there are vacancies to any large extent at the present time, and that is the field of domestic service for women. When you come to the men, broadly speaking, as a result of the position of industry to-day, I have no large number of vacancies available. This is the appeal I desire to make. When things begin to pick up, as we hope they soon will do, I appeal to employers of labour to send their vacancies to the employment exchanges. If I get those vacancies, I can really make my scheme function as I would like to see it. The proper function of the scheme is in every way to assist men in their endeavour tee find work, and if a man cannot find it, then he is provided with the unemployment benefit. That is how I conceive this scheme should work, but unless I have vacancies I cannot carry out that as it should work."863ssss862861dddddddddddds860ss859: My Lords, the Bill, the Second Reading of which I have to move this afternoon, is necessitated by the continued, heavy, and indeed increasing unemployment of the last few months. Your Lordships will recollect that several different measures have been passed during the last year to deal with this question of unemployment insurance, and to make and extend the provision for the large numbers unemployed as a result of the post-war dislocation of our industry and commerce, and of existing trade conditions. The first Act of 1920, which came into operation on November 8, and which brought 8,000,000 more workpeople into compulsory insurance against unemployment, and increased the rates of benefit from 11s. a week to 15s. a week in the case of men and to 12s. in the case of women, provided also that eight weeks' special benefit should be obtainable after four weeks of employment and contributions. Owing to the prevailing trade conditions at that time, however, even that qualification proved too difficult for large numbers, who could obtain no employment at all." In the Second Reading Debate I made an appeal which I now wish to repeat with emphasis. To be entitled to the benefit, a person, among other things, must prove that he is genuinely seeking work and is unable to obtain suitable employment. The only way in which that test can be applied is for me to be in a position to say, Here is a vacancy which appears suitable for you. If you do not take it, I am bound tee suspend your benefit and submit your case tee the referee.' There is only one field, of course, in which there are vacancies to any large extent at the present time, and that is the field of domestic service for women. When you come to the men, broadly speaking, as a result of the position of industry to-day, I have no large number of vacancies available. This is the appeal I desire to make. When things begin to pick up, as we hope they soon will do, I appeal to employers of labour to send their vacancies to the employment exchanges. If I get those vacancies, I can really make my scheme function as I would like to see it. The proper function of the scheme is in every way to assist men in their endeavour tee find work, and if a man cannot find it, then he is provided with the unemployment benefit. That is how I conceive this scheme should work, but unless I have vacancies I cannot carry out that as it should work."863ssss862861dddddddddddds860ss859THE EARL OF CLARENDON
867: My Lords, having once embarked on an unemployment scheme, I realise how hard it is for His Majesty's Government to drop it entirely, but I wish to call attention to the fact that the present amount of unemployment is only a drop in the bucket. It is most probable that in the course of the next four or five years we shall have five million persons or more unemployed in England, and unemployable for a long time. Statistics show that you can employ and keep employed only that portion of your population in respect, of which you have previously sunk and invested as capital £3,000 for every £100 paid in wages, and, with all these doles and artificial means of employment, you are doing away with the capital fund which will have to maintain your population in the future.867LORD CLIFFORD OF CHUDLEIGH
866865864: My Lords, I listened to the speech of the noble Earl with very great interest, and I think your Lordships
866865864LORD JOICEY
: But we want an engagement from the Government, if you please.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: No. Of course, your Lordships may decide against it, but it would be impossible for us willingly to consent to take the remaining stages of this Bill to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
845: My Lords, when my noble friend, the First Commissioner of Works, gave notice yesterday that he proposed to make this Motion, I suggested to your Lordships that it would be unwise to enter into any engagement that we should accept such a Motion without further consideration. I am afraid that further consideration which we have been able to give to this measure, very brief as it has been, has not encouraged us to hope that we can assent to the course which the Government have proposed— namely, to take the First and Second Readings of this Bill to-day, and the remaining stages to-morrow. The noble Earl has stated that there is a special reason why this Bill should be passed by a certain day. I have learned from long experience to be a little distrustful of these special reasons, for I notice that when these solemn warnings are disregarded no sinister consequences generally follow. But I suppose, whatever may be the special reason in this case, that that reason was as well known to the House of Commons and to the Government as it is to my noble friend opposite. Why, then, has the Bill been presented to your Lordships at this late day?845THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Please.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, I want to give the Government fair notice. I am going to put down an Amendment on behalf of all the banks in the United Kingdom and the Bank Clerks' Association. It is a matter of vital interest to the whole banking interest of this country, and I shall resist to the utmost of my power— at any cost— the taking of this Bill through all its stages to-morrow.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: It is quite impossible.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion which stands in my name in regard to this Bill.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE)
: My Lords, I beg to move—"That Standing Orders Nos. 72 and 82 be suspended for the remainder of the session."THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES
871: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion which stands in the name of the noble Earl the
871THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
882: My Lords, in moving that these Bills be read a second time, may I say that the Marriages Provisional Order Bill is quite formal in character. It
882THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE -MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
Lord Somerleyton.: My Lords,. I beg to move the Motion of which I have given notice. This Bill is essential in the interests of the country.Lord Somerleyton.LORD SOMERLEYTON
: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
886885"From and after the commencement of this Act, every contract, bargain, sale or dealing relating to corn shall, unless it is made or had by weight only and in terms of and by reference to the hundredweight of one hundred and twelve imperial standard pounds, be null and void."884: My Lords, the Bill to which I ask your Lordships to give a Second Reading to-night is one to provide for greater uniformity in the weights and measures used in the sale of corn and other crops. In order to reach some uniformity we have to get rid of those almost innumerable measures which now govern the sale of corn and other agricultural seeds in this country. They are a cause of great confusion in the trade, and the confusion is increased because a considerable number of these measures are similar in name and vet, in different parts of the country, have different weights, and consequently different values. To get rid of the confusion and
886885"From and after the commencement of this Act, every contract, bargain, sale or dealing relating to corn shall, unless it is made or had by weight only and in terms of and by reference to the hundredweight of one hundred and twelve imperial standard pounds, be null and void."884LORD CLINTON
: Will the noble Lord read the last paragraph of that Report?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I have not the Report with me. I know the paragraph to which the noble Earl refers. It suggests that the whole matter should be looked into by a Committee.LORD CLINTON
: It suggests a good deal more than that.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
890"The milling trade of the United Kingdom would be seriously and unfairly handicapped and prejudiced by the passing of the Bill, for it would permit the flour of their foreign competitors to be sold in this country at the popular and customary unit of the sack of 280 lbs., divided into 140 lb. sacks or bags.""The adoption of the hundredweight of 112 lbs. as the only legal unit, is inexpedient., since it Would complicate or render impracticable the more complete unification of weights and measures suitable for the import and export trade of the country,'"The proposed unit of the hundredweight of 112 lbs. is an arbitary standard weight which does not rule on the Continent of Europe or in the countries from which grain is principally exported."889"The Bill has been introduced without any consultation with the trades vitally affected.""There is no desire on the part of persons engaged in the milling and grain trades, nor, it is believed, on the part of farmers generally, for, any such change of system as is proposed.""The present system of conducting the business in question with which all persons engaged in the industry are thoroughly familiar, does not give rise to any inconvenience calling for legislation of so drastic a character as is proposed by the Bill."888"Having given very full consideration to the subject we arc unable to recommend the compulsory adoption of the metric system in this country.": I am sorry I have not the Report with me now. All these agricultural bodies are anxious for this reform and for the standard we have proposed. The matter has been before the country on very many occasions. More than one hundred years ago, as early as 1758, a movement was made in the matter, and in 1795 a Committee reported in favour of selling corn by weight as being less liable to error. At intervals other Committees have reported in favour and societies have petitioned Parliament. Several private measures have also been introduced, but none has succeeded in becoming law.890"The milling trade of the United Kingdom would be seriously and unfairly handicapped and prejudiced by the passing of the Bill, for it would permit the flour of their foreign competitors to be sold in this country at the popular and customary unit of the sack of 280 lbs., divided into 140 lb. sacks or bags.""The adoption of the hundredweight of 112 lbs. as the only legal unit, is inexpedient., since it Would complicate or render impracticable the more complete unification of weights and measures suitable for the import and export trade of the country,'"The proposed unit of the hundredweight of 112 lbs. is an arbitary standard weight which does not rule on the Continent of Europe or in the countries from which grain is principally exported."889"The Bill has been introduced without any consultation with the trades vitally affected.""There is no desire on the part of persons engaged in the milling and grain trades, nor, it is believed, on the part of farmers generally, for, any such change of system as is proposed.""The present system of conducting the business in question with which all persons engaged in the industry are thoroughly familiar, does not give rise to any inconvenience calling for legislation of so drastic a character as is proposed by the Bill."888"Having given very full consideration to the subject we arc unable to recommend the compulsory adoption of the metric system in this country."LORD CLINTON
: It will involve double invoices.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
891"If the Bill became law it would be impossible to continue to develop the trade in British milled flour for export to the Continent by the customary Continental unit of the kilo.": I think I heard the noble Earl say "double invoices." As a matter of fact, the whole of it is imported in terms of cwts., because every atom of flour and grain has to pay freight charges, which are all calculated by the cwt. I really do not believe that there is any inconvenience or recalculation required in that matter at all. With regard to the next objection, it is said—
891"If the Bill became law it would be impossible to continue to develop the trade in British milled flour for export to the Continent by the customary Continental unit of the kilo."LORD CLINTON
: May I remind the noble Lord that they have already been re-calculated for the trade by the carrying trade, the shipping and railway companies.LORD CLINTON
894893: I will deal with sonic cases in which they are not, presently. Even if they are re-calculated for this purpose, I do not think that that alone is sufficient to authorise this Bill. In regard to the East of Europe, I think the noble Lord referred to different quarters which formerly came from the three exporting ports in Russia—namely, Riga, Odessa and Petrograd. How long it will be before we receive grain again from Russia I am unable to say, but I am afraid that it will he a considerable time. The same thing applies to other ports of supply in the Eastern part of Europe.894893LORD EMMOTT
897896: My Lords, speaking on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, I may say that as agriculturists we support this Bill. We believe that it would be of very great advantage to the home producer and to those farmers and others who have dealings in grain in this country. The Ministry of Agriculture would naturally like to see the Bill pass into law, believing, as they do, that it would put an end to a great deal of confusion winch now exists in different markets, owing to the various meanings of the terms "quarter" and "bushel" which prevail throughout the country. I think all your Lordships are fully aware that there is a great deal of confusion arising from these different weights and measures.897896THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE. MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
898: My Lords, I had no intention of speaking when I came down to the House, but I feel that I must say a few words, after listening to the lengthy speech of the noble Earl who has just spoken for the landed interest rather than for the trade. We have not yet heard the Board of Trade view of this Bill. If you pass it into law you are going to upset the whole of the foreign corn trade in this country. Every ship which discharges a cargo of grain into a warehouse, the books of which are made up with the usual customary weights and measures, will now have to deliver out of the ware-
898LORD NUNBURNHOLME
899"This is not a Government Bill, hot so far as the Government are concerned they will recommend the Rouse to give a Second Reading to the Bill.": My Lords, I understand the noble Earl who represents the Ministry of Agriculture here to say that in blessing the Bill he was speaking on behalf of his Department only, and not on behalf of the Government. He will correct me if I am wrong. If I ant right, then I would ask the noble Earl who is leading the House why the Government changed their mind upon this matter? We are very accustomed in these clays to the Government continually changing their mind, and it would seem that they have done so in this case. When this Bill was before the House of Commons on Second Reading, the Minister for Agriculture said—
899"This is not a Government Bill, hot so far as the Government are concerned they will recommend the Rouse to give a Second Reading to the Bill."LORD STRACHIE
: My Lords, I confess that I think the least interesting point is the personal and political point to which my noble friend has alluded. My noble friend beside me said he was speaking for the Department of Agriculture, and that as a Government we did not propose to advise your Lordships in either direction, but he made a strong appeal not merely that the Bill should have a Second Reading but that it should pass into law. The Board of Trade is afraid that the Bill may be more far-reaching in its character and, while conferring a benefit upon agriculture, may cause a serious impediment to our trade as a whole. It so happens that for four years I have been connected with the problems of bread-stuffs and milling, our flour supplies and bread distribution, and I beg your Lordships to allow me to say in a word or two why I hope that this Bill will not pass until it has received careful consideration at your Lordships' hands. The Government must really not be blamed for—THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Changing their mind?LORD STRACHIE
901900: Even for changing their mind. I do not suppose that Lord Strachie does not change his mind. If so, he must have a very clear and strong conscience. I confess I should be sorry to be a member of a Government which was too proud to admit that it had changed its mind. I will explain in a moment how it has come about that this subject was not sufficiently probed during the earlier stages of its career. I set out by admitting anomalies. I know that these cereals and cereal products are sold in every kind of denomination, and I admit the anomalies. But who suffers by them? The farmers? No. We all know of two or three cases where farmers are quoted as having thought they sold in a. bushel or boll or whatever it be, and found that they were actually selling in another measure of a smaller denomination. That is not so in one thousandth of one per cent. of the cases of sales. My noble friend Lord
901900THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: May I interrupt the noble Earl for a moment? That was not my complaint. My complaint against them was that they said they had not been consulted.LORD CLINTON
902: Certain people were consulted, but I can assure my noble friend that it was I myself who first asked some of these people what they thought about the Bill, and they told me that they did not know it had even been presented to Parliament. There are very important Bills awaiting the consideration of your Lordships, and I do not propose to detain you more than a moment or two. I wish to point out that this does not affect only the milling industry and the corn industry. Least of all does it affect the farmers. The farmers of this country are
902THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Only when the corn is in this country.LORD CLINTON
: I am dealing with a transaction that is not done in this country, and I think I am quite correct. It is the same point that has been raised by Lord Emmott.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I rather think the Bill as drafted is intended to make "future" dealings impossible.LORD EMMOTT
: That is what I understand.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: We are informed that the Bill does not affect "futures" at all.LORD CLINTON
: I do not want to take up your Lordships' time in dealing with a question of construction, but those who deal in "futures" think it will make that class of tranaction impossible, and while it may be considered a wicked thing to deal in "futures," my experience is that "futures" steady the market, and, as such, are by no means without their use.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
905: My Lords, no one could have had a less pre-determined view on this measure Than I had. I was very anxious to know what it was that the Bill desired to effect and what were the arguments for and against it. For that purpose I have done my best to attend to what has been said, though I had the misfortune not to hear the speech of the noble Lord who introduced it. I have always been strongly in favour of some alteration of our system of weights and measures. There is no doubt that they are most clumsy, and, although they are familiar to all people engaged in our inland trade, it would certainly greatly simplify other transactions and tend to the expedition of commerce if they could be changed. It does not follow front that that this Bill ought to be accepted.905LORD BUCKMASTER
: Does it only apply to home-grown wheat?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I think it does. It applies to no corn that is imported into this country while it remains in the warehouse, store or shed, where it has been first stored on importation. That is what. I mean by saving that it applies only to domestic transactions at home. It is perfectly true that you may have corn that Inv. been imported and then sold here, and then, of course, the Bill will apply. But the point is; that it affects, as I understand it—I may be quite wrong, or the noble Earl may be quite wrong—nothing except contracts made at home for the sale and purchase of corn and wheat and other commodities that arc here at home and passed out of the warehouses and sheds into which they were originally consigned. What is there in that to interfere with our imports or to prevent the importation of what we all desire—namely, large quantities of wheat and corn? I confess I cannot understand it, and on the whole the noble Lord who introduced the Bill has, I think, made out his case.LORD BUCKMASTER
906: My Lords, if the noble and learned Lord who has just spoken is puzzled at the line taken by the Government ho will not be surprised that I am even still more puzzled. The Government are playing the part of Jekyll and Hyde. First we have Lord Ancaster speaking for the Ministry of Agriculture, which I always thought formed a part of the Government. He blesses the Bill, and says there never was such a Bi'l introduced and that it will be of the greatest possible use. I thoroughly agree with him. Then we have Lord Crawford, who says it is one of the worst Bills he has ever seen, and,
906LORD LAMBOURNE
: My Lords, I have only a. very few words to add to what has been so well said by my noble friend opposite. I think the noble Lord, Lord Buckmaster, has entirely disposed of the argument that this Bill will interfere with the import trade. I merely wish most respectfully, but most definitely, to disagree with Lord Crawford when he says that the present state of affairs inflicts only very small inconvenience on the agricultural industry. That is riot the opinion of the organisations which represent agriculture. It is not an exaggeration to say that it was proved before the Committee of which I had the honour to be Chairman, that the present condition: of these corn measures is simply chaotic, and, although this is not a final and complete remedy, it is, at all events, a very long step in advance. I sincerely hope that your Lordships will agree to the Second Reading.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
907: My Lords, I will not detain your Lordships for more than a minute. Many years ago I used to grow eight or ten thousand bushels of corn a year and ship it to England. I shall certainly support this Bill, because I do not remember any of this corn being bought by the bag or the bushel. When
907LORD CLIFFORD OF CHUDLEIGH
909: My Lords, I cannot raise any objection to the Amendment moved by my noble friend. I was very glad to hear his view that the Minister of Agriculture will assist this Bill, because, as your Lordships are aware, it has already been through all its stages in another place, and I sincerely hope that it will become law this session. But unless it were given facilities by the Ministry of Agriculture, I was rather nervous that,
909LORD DYNEVOR
: My Lords, I hope the noble Lord will accept this Amendment, moved by Lord Stuart of Wortley, because I think it is a fair and just Amendment, and one which should be inserted. Of course, I fully recognise the difficulty in which the Bill is placed. If we accept the Amendment at this stage, the Bill will have to go back to the House of Commons, and there might be a chance of its being thereby lost. I will only say, on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture, that I saw him before the sitting of your Lordships' House, and that he definitely promised that he would do his very best to try' to get the Bill through another place this session. I hope that, with that assurance, the noble Lord will accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I am very much obliged to my noble friend.LORD DYNEVOE
: I beg to ask the noble Earl at what time the Royal Commission will sit this evening.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I understand that it is postponed until four o'clock to-morrow afternoon.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
910: My Lords, I desire to call your Lordships' attention to the position in which we are placed. This afternoon we were told that it was absolutely necessary that this Bill should pass through all its stages to-day, in order that it might receive the Royal Assent this evening. Your Lordships can
910THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Lord Crawford has been sent for, and is coming back.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
: I am glad to receive that courteous intimation from the noble Earl, but your Lordships will allow me to say, very respectfully, that unless the House of Lords resists it will always be put upon. I hope your Lordships will realise that we were not so very unreasonable this afternoon, when we asked you not to agree to suspend the Standing Order. It is now quite obvious that the Government might, without any public inconvenience, have refrained from pressing their Motion, have held a sitting to-morrow, and have completed the remaining stages of the Bill then. They did not do so, and now, if you please, we are calmly told that there is to be a Friday sitting, without any notice of such sitting to your Lordships at the proper time. Noble Lords have gone away without any idea that there was going to be a Friday sitting. I do not know, and I do not anticipate, what decision your Lordships will make upon the Amendments, but if your Lordships make any Amendments the Bill will go back to the House of Commons to be dealt with by that House to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: It is going back to the House of Commons after eleven o'clock to-night.LORD HYLTON
911: The point is the same. Supposing the 'House of Commons think fit not to agree with your Lordships, the Bill will have to conic back to us, and there will be no House tomorrow to receive the Bill. There will, of
911THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
912: My- Lords, I beg to move that this Debate be now adjourned. In the absence of the Leader of the House it is really not possible to speak on the merits of the question. I see that the Deputy Leader (the Earl of Crawford) is now returning to his place in the House and perhaps it would be only courteous that I should repeat in substance what has just been said by Lord Salisbury. By a very narrow majority the Government persuaded the House to allow them to suspend the Standing Order, in order that this Bill might pass through all its stages to-day and receive the Royal Assent. They never suggested even that your Lordships might sit to-morrow in order to have more time. Do not for one moment think I imagine that that would have been an adequate suggestion; but, at any rate, it would have indicated some attempt to give more time in which to deal with this very important Bill. We were told, in courteous but very firm, terms, that public interest demanded that this Bill should pass through all its stages, and receive the Royal Assent to-day. Your Lordships took that view. I voted differently, because if your Lordships accept this kind of treatment there is no indignity to which you will not be subjected.912THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: My Lords, I am sorry that I was out of the House when Lord Selborne began to speak. I did not know that he was going to raise the point—THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: It was raised by Lord Salisbury.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
913: Of course, if I had known that the point was to be raised I should have been in my place. The difficulty, I gather, is that the House of Commons cannot deal with any Amendment which we may make until eleven or twelve o'clock to-night, or perhaps one o'clock in the morning. It is a very unfortunate circumstance, and in those conditions a Royal Commission at seven or eight, or even nine o'clock this evening is, I am afraid, impossible. I presume that, on the whole, the more convenient of two very inconvenient courses is to meet to-morrow, rather than to invite your Lordships to wait until some undetermined hour in the early hours of to-morrow morning, when the House of Commons may have dealt with the Amendments made by your Lordships.913THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: My Lords, I must say I feel that this Motion is a very serious one. The statement made on behalf of the Government that the postponement of the consideration of this Bill would cost the country £500,000 made a very great impression on me. I thought it was possible that they might be under some misapprehension as to the amount, but, none the less, it appeared to me that, in face of a statement of that kind, deliberately made, it became extremely difficult to oppose the Government's proposal I that this Bill should be proceeded with at once. Aral accordingly, though I could not bring myself to vote with the Government, I abstained from voting against them.LORD BUCKMASTER
914: My Lords, I am disposed to agree with the noble and learned Lord that there is no reason to press this Motion at this moment. The principal reason why my noble friend moved the adjournment was that we could not go on discussing the subject in the absence of the Deputy Leader of the
914THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I beg leave to withdraw the Motion.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
918: The Amendment moved by the noble Earl proposes to give the Minister power to approve any scheme w halt has been submitted for approval on or before June 8 of this year. In a number of cases draft schemes have been submitted to the Minister for approval or for the advice
918THE EARL OF CLARENDON
: Yes.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
919: My information is to the contrary effect. Representations have already been received from an association of employees in the industry protesting against the draft scheme which bas been submitted. This association claims, I do not know with what force, to represent upwards of 20,000 employees in that particular industry. It would appear, therefore, that opinion in the industry itself is not ii oar tin ions as to the scheme. This would make it difficult to justify any concession confined to this particular industry, while, on the other hand, as already mentioned, it would not
919THE EARL OF CLARENDON
: I cannot possibly withdraw the Amendment. I only wish to make two comments on the noble Earl's speech. The first is that my Amendment does not apply to banks only, but to all who have submitted schemes on or before June 8. Therefore, no special favour is asked for one trade. As to the second point, if the Minister was able to prove that my representations were wrong, and that the employees did not approve of this scheme, there is nothing here to fetter his discretion or judgment. He can approve or disapprove, just as he chooses.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: Can the noble Earl say what is the name of this association of employees which objects to the settlement which we believed had been arrived at by them all?LORD SYDENHAM
: I am afraid I cannot give the name at this moment, but if the noble Lord desires it I can obtain it for him.THE EARL OE CLARENDON
920: I think I can satisfy the noble Lord as to the name of the association. It is the Bank Officers' Guild. My information is much the same as that of the noble Earl on the Treasury Bench—that there is not complete unanimity, and that the foreign and colonial banks are not in this scheme. There is sonic doubt also whether Barclay's Bank is in entire unanimity with it, and that is one of the five big banks. I most certainly support the noble Earl, Lord Selborne, although I go further than he does in the Amendment which I have put upon the Paper, because I propose to omit Clause 5 altogether. The effect of leaving out that clause would be that Lord Selborne's Amendment, which is a smaller one than mine, would also be covered. In the event of the Minister turning down a particular scheme which has been put before the Ministry, it would be possible to amend that scheme, bring it up again, and get approval of it.920LORD ASKWITH
: I hope your Lordships will support the noble Earl, Lord Selborne, in his Amendment, which it seems to me perfectly right and just to accept. The noble Earl himself has already pointed out that the two objections urged by the noble Earl who speaks for the Government do not hold ground against this Amendment. It is an Amendment which in no sense applies to the banking industry only. The question of whether there is adequate support for this particular proposal may affect, the question whether approval should be given to the scheme, but it does not affect the Amendment that is proposed. To say that to do what is right and just in reference to a particular matter will upset the whole of a scheme, seems to me—I do not want to use hard words—in the nature of one of those Government apologias with which we are too familiar, and which would sacrifice right and justice to a mere matter of actuarial calculation. I hope the I louse will support the Amendment.LORD EMMOTT
: As the point about actuarial calculations has been raised, I should like to give your Lordships sonic further information upon it. Clause 5 of the Bill is the security to the Treasury for the repayment of the loan of £20,000,000.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
: I will only say that, although the clause is amended, the Government prefer to keep it.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
924: I do not know what course my noble friend above the gangway proposes to take as regards pressing his Amendment, but I am inclined to counsel moderation in respect of this clause; not that my opinion is against the views of my noble friend, for I think he is very likely entirely right in his contentions, but the House has arrived at an agreement on the moderate Amendment moved by my noble friend, Lord Selborne, and that, I think, does constitute a distinct judgment of the House in favour of a middle course. It is a course which can be recommended on many grounds. I think your Lordships are aware that the House of Lords has been very badly treated over this matter, but there is no reason why we should be cross about it, or sulk, and we must do the best we can to get the business through. I think this is more
924THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Tell the Lord Chancellor what has happened. He was not here.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: I have no doubt the Lord Chancellor has been informed of the circumstances concerning which we have had occasion to protest since he left the Woolsack, and I am sure he will recognise—for he is very fair in all these matters—That the House of Lords has been extraordinarily badly treated. In these circumstances, I think we may properly claim that he and his colleagues should exercise their great influence to see that this Amendment, which has now been inserted in the Bill, is agreed to by the Government, in another place. We really have not had a fair chance of discussing this Bill, and we shall not have a fair chance, unless a course is taken such as I venture to suggest. I am inclined to hope that, in view of all the circumstances, my noble friend, Lord Askwith, will not press his Amendment, not, as, I have said, because I disagree with him, but on the ground that we have arrived at a compromise.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I am not prepared to risk Lord Selborne's Amendment being thrown out in another place, particularly after what the noble Earl on the Treasury Bench said when he remarked that he was prepared to keep the clause, even as amended, which is practically an accept——LORD ASKWITH
: I think that is really a misunderstanding. Lord Selborne's point was different. I am afraid that, as we have just divided against it, that gives an indication that the Amendment was unacceptable.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: The Amendment was unacceptable, but more acceptable than the loss of the clause altogether.LORD ASKWITH
: That is what Lord Clarendon said.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: As I think there is more chance- of Lord Selborne's Amendment getting through the House of Commons, if it. is left as it is, I am prepared to withdraw my Amendment.LORD ASKWITH
: May I ask the noble Earl what the meaning of Clause 8 really is? I have tried very hard to make out what it means, but it has a great many references. Does it mean this: that whether a man or woman does or does not satisfy the requirements of Section 3 of the Act of 1921, the Minister may for six weeks give payment of benefit according to his discretion? If so, it would mean that any one who chose, either through stupidity or on purpose, to go and tell a few stories at the Employment Exchange, would satisfy the requirements of Section 3 and would be able to get paid. This would increase the objectionable system of the wrong people getting grants. I cannot understand the clause.LORD ASKWITH
: I endeavoured to explain the meaning of the clause on the Second Reading, and if I may be allowed 40 do so, I should like to repeat the explanation. It enables the eight weeks' benefit to be continued for the time being, where it is already being drawn, whilst inquiries are being made as to the other qualifications of the applicant for benefit.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
928: I hope the Lord Chancellor will be good enough to explain the real meaning and import of this clause. I do not pretend that I fully understand it, but it is proposed by this clause that the Bill, so far as it relates to Ireland, shall be deemed to have been passed before the Appointed Day. That is to say, that it shall be brought into the same category as all Acts of Parliament which were passed before the new state of things in Ireland. I should certainly have thought that the simplest Amendment would have been that "This Bill shall not apply to Ireland." Why should we go on legislating for Ireland? What in the world is the good of all the trouble we took in the autumn it we are going to legislate for Ireland instead of saying simply that henceforth matters which concern Ireland alone shall be dealt with by the Irish Legislatures? Why have this wonderful process, that an Act of Parliament passed after Home Rule, shad be deemed to have been passed before Home Rule, in order that the Irish Parliament should in some way be relieved of the necessity of dealing with this subject?928THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I am so crushed by the sarcasm with which the noble Marquess alluded to the wonderful Government of which I am a humble member, that I address myself with anxiety to the question which he has asked. I am sure, if the noble Marquess will continue to brood over our excellences, he will gradually become even more genuinely convinced of them. As to the particular illustration of them which he invites me to give, let me disarm criticism by saying that on the general principle I am entirely with him. We passed the Government of Ireland Act without any very constant or enthusiastic support from the noble Marquess, but that circumstance, of course, does not disentitle hint from arguing that, when once we have passed it, it is our duty to let those whom we have, so to speak, set, up in life with an establishment, address themselves to their own business. It would, of course, be an incomplete answer to say that the establishment which we provided for the South of Ireland has up to the present not been tenanted by those for whose convenience it was provided.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: You have four members.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I know, but the number is inadequate, as the noble Marquess will recall, under the terms of the Act itself; but the real explanation of this provision is an historical one. The House will remember that in the Government of Ireland Act power was taken to enable the Irish Government, by an Order, to make any adaptation in a very convenient form that might be necessary in applying to Ireland Acts passed before the Appointed Day. We did not think it necessary to deprive the Irish Parliaments of a convenience of which, if and when they are set up, they will certainly avail themselves, and, although the present Bill will become law after the Appointed Day, there were commitments in relation to it of a kind which one always finds in a Bill which is riot an original Bill but the creature of an earlier one. The principal Bill, indeed, carried this Bill in its womb, in the sense that it was, on the face of it, a Bill which could not finally deal with the difficulty; and I have not the least doubt that other progeny in time will be born, even of this Bill.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
931: My Lords, I am afraid I cannot make a definite announcement to-day, but I can give my noble friend Lord Balfour a general statement of the Bills which it is expected
931THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
932: My Lords, the statement made by my noble friend is one of the usual unsatisfactory character which we are in the habit of hearing at this period, or a later period, of the session. Personally, I always have been a very strong advocate of autumn sessions, and on
932LORD NEWTON
: I thank the noble Earl for his reply, but there was, in answer to a Question in another place, a definite announcement in the sense which I indicated; but I do not know that it is a law of the Medes and Persians which cannot be reversed. I venture very seriously to express the view, if we are going to be kept here after the middle of August, that it will be much better for everybody if there is an adjournment and an autumn session, beginning some time late in October or in November.LORD BALFOUR OF BURLEIGH
: I cannot add anything more to what I have said, except that personally I take a diametrically opposite point of view from that of my noble friend, Lord Newton.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: The majority of the House does not.LORD NEWTON
: I am not certain that the majority of Parliament as a whole would not. I think if we settle that we are going to have normal autumn sessions it is a pure delusion to think that Parliament would rise in June.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: My Lords, I beg to move that the Second Report from the House of Lords Offices Committee be considered and adopted.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE)
879: My Lords, I cannot help thinking that your Lordships have a very real grievance in this matter. I think that case is made out. One ought, however, to remember, not in complete excuse, but in palliation, that it does not quite exhaust the whole situation when one says that on such and such a day the House of Commons discussed it on the Motion for the Second Reading, and then they had three days, and then they were allowed four days; because those of your Lordships who have been accustomed to business in the House of Commons know very well that those opportunities are very frequently not the result of deliberate concessions, but spring from the situation that there are other matters which imperatively claim the time of the House. In other words, it is the exigency, and the pressure, and the competition of other Parliamentary business which, in another place, is the true explanation of this delay.879THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
880: I do not really feel disposed to rack my memory in order to establish equations of this kind. But I do not remember that the reproaches which were heard on earlier occasions were much less violent than those which the noble Marquess has addressed to the House. As we are about to take, I suppose, a somewhat important Division, I would urge your Lordships to consider very carefully what has said by Lord Buckmaster. The noble and learned Lord is another critic who, like the noble Marquess, finds no difficulty in concealing any admiration which he may feel for the present Government. But, at the same time, he has surely called attention to the real question here. It is not whether we have been badly treated, because I think everybody is convinced that we have been. It is whether this is the particular occasion which we should select to make, with its admitted consequences, this particular kind of protest. It is not, and I believe it cannot be, seriously disputed that the result of that which it is proposed that your Lordships should do will be to cause to the taxpayers a loss of £500,000. Lord Selborne says that if that consequence does follow the real responsibility will be the responsibility of the House of Commons, and not the responsibility of the House of Lords. It may be so. I confess I derive particularly cold comfort from the reflection, if the £500,000 is to be lost, that I should have the satisfaction of saying, when still another burden is added to the many we carry on our backs to-day
880THE LORD CHANCELLOR
cadd.: My Lords, it is impossible, without obtaining a special Return from all the education authorities, to give the information asked for, and it is doubtful whether in any event it would be possible to distinguish between those cases where the necessity arises in consequence of the coal dispute and those where the provision of meals is required for other reasons. The cost per meal per child varies in the different education areas, and it is understood that between 3cadd.LORD STANMORE
: My Lords. I think I shall be expressing the sentiment of the Government when I say quite clearly that it is with the deepest possible regret that your Lordships have been asked to hurry over this particular Bill. But, if I may, I should like to carry your Lordships back to the trouble which really gave rise to the necessity for the Bill. Your Lordships will recollect that about thirteen weeks ago the stoppage in the coal industry took place. It became apparent to the Ministry who were responsible for this Bill, that they could not carry on with the power given them of raising the sum of £10,000,000, after the coal strike had been proceeding for six weeks. The moment that period was over, and it became settled that the coal stoppage would be protracted over a still longer period, the Ministry set to work to prepare the Bill which is now before the House. That necessarily took up considerable time. As the noble Marquess who first spoke in this debate pointed out, they had to consult previous Bills. That took some time, and, in addition, they had to consult the Government actuaries. After those two courses had been finished the Bill had to go before the Cabinet for approval. That took a period of something in the nature of four weeks, making ten weeks in all from the time the stoppage in the coal industry arose.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
877: No, I mean that was the time occupied in examining previous Bills, in actuarial calculations, and in getting the Cabinet approval. The Bill then came to the House of Commons on June 8, as mentioned by the noble Marquess, and I should like to say that I am willing to agree that the Bill is an excessively complicated one. I myself have had little time to study it.877THE EARL OF CLARENDON
: That is true, but I am speaking of the time during which it was under actual consideration by the other House. In answer to Lord Buckmaster, I should like to point out that it is urgent that this Bill should go through in the time allotted to it in this House, for the simple reason that if it is not passed through all its stages in the two days, it will cost the country half a million of money, because, by the provisions contained in this Bill, the benefit is reduced in the case of men and women, as from Monday next, July 4, whereas if your Lordships take longer in discussing this Bill, and its various stages are prolonged into next week, it means that the benefit will have to be paid on the old scale rather than upon the new. I hope that I have given sufficient reasons to show that it is urgent that this Bill should be passed through all its stages to-day, and become law at once.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
934: My Lords, I rise to ask His Majesty's Government what
934LORD ERSKINE
876: My Lords, this Motion is often made, and it always meets with a protest from these benches—a protest which certainly has no relation to the political colour of the people who occupy these scats. It is, I think, a right and proper objection for an Opposition, as an Opposition, to take to a Motion that asks this House completely to disregard the true functions that it ought to exercise, and to pass, practically without comment and certainly without examination, a very important measure. I believe that every member of this House, and even those who represent the Government, would agree that that is a very undesirable thing, if we are to exercise co-ordinate functions with another place. If we are not going to consent to have our deliberations regarded as of no consequence, we certainly ought not to assent to a Motion of this kind, excepting upon some very extreme and urgent representation.876LORD BUCKMASTER
: My Lords, I should like to make only one point, and that is that the difficulties suggested could readily be put straight in the Bill itself when it becomes an Act of Parliament. The Treasury difficulty which is suggested—namely, that there would be an overpayment on July 4—is a matter which could be put right in the Bill itself quite easily.LORD PARMOOR
: No doubt, all Governments are sinners, but I do not think any Government has sinned so much as this one, or anything like it.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Does the noble Earl mean that the Cabinet took four weeks?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
875874873872: My Lords, no one can complain of the tone in which the noble Earl has made this Motion, but he has not availed himself of the invitation, which I extended to him yesterday, to tell your Lordships the history of this Bill in the House of Commons. I have not the same means of making myself acquainted with that history as has the
875874873872THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
878: My Lords, the real and only case that the Government have put up is that unless this Bill is scamped by your Lordships' House, and. passed without any proper consideration, it may cost the country half a million of money. I am not wholly satisfied that, that will be the case, but if it were the case, then I say without hesitation that the responsibility would not rest upon this House but upon the Government in the House of Commons. And there is another aspect to this matter. There are tremendous interests involved in this Bill. I myself have put down an Amendment on behalf of all the banks of the United Kingdom, and of the employees of those banks, representing one of the greatest interests in this country.878THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: It is twenty-one days since it was introduced in the House of Commons.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: As your Lordships are aware there is to be a Royal Commission at 5 o'clock.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: My Lords, I beg to move that the Commons Amendment be now considered.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
" Provided that this section shall not apply in any case where before the eighth day of June, nineteen hundred and twenty-one, a draft scheme appearing to the Minister to be complete has been submitted to him and application has before that date been made to him to approve the scheme in accordance with the provisions of section eighteen of the principal Act."936: My Lords, it will be remembered, no doubt, that an Amendment, moved by the noble Earl, Lord Selborne, passed your Lordships' House last night. The Bill reached the House of Commons at a late hour and the noble Earl's Amendment was there defeated. Subsequently, the Minister of Labour, Dr. Macnamara, moved an Amendment in its stead, which was accepted without a Division, and I trust that this Amendment will be accepted by your Lordships." Provided that this section shall not apply in any case where before the eighth day of June, nineteen hundred and twenty-one, a draft scheme appearing to the Minister to be complete has been submitted to him and application has before that date been made to him to approve the scheme in accordance with the provisions of section eighteen of the principal Act."936THE EARL OF CLARENDON
: My Lords, this Amendment of the Minister of Labour gives me all that for which I contended in your Lordships' House. It is not in the exact words that I should have chosen, but, as the Minister prefers these words, it would be ungracious of me to insist upon mine, and I have much pleasure in concurring.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion standing in my name with regard to this Bill. There are adequate public reasons for it.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUGEMORE)
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now resolve itself into Committee. In doing so, I should like to take the opportunity of replying to a Question, of which the noble Lord, Lord Harris, has given Me private notice, in regard to the rates of pension of certain police officers in Lancashire, who retired on pensions before the war. During the war, these officers temporarily rejoined the police force on special rates of pay, lower than those then current, which they received, of course, in addition to their pensions, and the rates were increased from time to time In April, 1919, the pay of the police generally was substantially increased, and. these men now desire to have their pensions re-assessed on the new rates of pay. The increase of pre-war pensions was dealt with by the Pensions (Increase) Act of last session, and such men as are entitled to benefit under that Act will do so. There is no authority, however, for re-assessing their pensions under the new rates of pay. In any case, this Bill deals with future pensions, and not with pensions already granted.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF TEE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: The next Amendment is consequential.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The next is a drafting Amendment.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The next Amendment is consequential.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Lord Galway wishes to move an Amendment on the question that the words be here inserted.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: The Government are ready to accept this.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I am quite ready to accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I beg now to move the other Amendment to the Amendment, namely, after "Secretary of State," where those words secondly occur, to omit "with a duly qualified medical practitioner nominated by the police authority, and a duly qualified medical practitioner nominated by the appellant, as assessors."LORD STRACHIE
: The two Amendments to this clause are drafting.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The next two Amendments are drafting, in order to bring this clause into harmony with the provisions of Clause 9.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The next Amendment is consequential on the Amendment to Clause 4.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: There is a drafting Amendment to this clause.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
b: Two Amendments which I move to paragraph (bTHE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The next Amendment is drafting.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The first two Amendments to this clause are also of a drafting nature.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The next Amendments are to make the same provision for the Scottish police as the Amendment already male in Clause 28.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The two following Amendments on the Paper are purely drafting.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Two further drafting Amendments follow.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The remaining Amendments on the Paper are drafting.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
" to perform such marriage service in such church or chapel or to do anything relating thereto."963" Provided always that no clergyman in holy orders of the Church of England shall be liable to any suit, penalty, or censure, whether civil or ecclesiastical, for anything done or omitted to be done by him in the performance of the duties of his office to which suit, penalty, or censure he would not have been liable if this Act had not been passed.": I feel the doubt which the right rev. Prelate himself feels as to whether his Amendment is proper at the end of the first proviso in Section 1 of the Deceased Wife's Sister's Marriage Act. That proviso reads as follows—
" to perform such marriage service in such church or chapel or to do anything relating thereto."963" Provided always that no clergyman in holy orders of the Church of England shall be liable to any suit, penalty, or censure, whether civil or ecclesiastical, for anything done or omitted to be done by him in the performance of the duties of his office to which suit, penalty, or censure he would not have been liable if this Act had not been passed."VISCOUNT HALDANE
: I appreciate what the noble Viscount has said, and I feel that the introduction of the words he has suggested will amply show that in the previous lines the question of the publication of banns of marriage is covered.THE LORD BISHOP OF NORWICH
964: I entirely agree with what the noble and learned Viscount has said in regard to the words in the proviso of Section 1 of the Act of 1907. The words "performance of the duty of his office" cover the question of the publication of banns. I, therefore, think that the right rev. Prelate, even if he carried his Amendment, would, in some sense perhaps, be thought to have cut down the very general terms which the proviso now contains. On the other hand, I am afraid that I differ from the noble and learned Viscount regarding the second proviso, and I certainly hope that no Amendment will be introduced into it. At the present time, substantially, that deals with cases apart from the publication of banns. Where a licence has been granted, some incumbent may officiate other than the incumbent of the parish. I certainly do not want the alternative incumbent in cases of this kind to be increased. The Act, as it stands, is quite proper, and the second proviso deals with a different subject-matter from the first. I hope, therefore, that the right rev. Prelate will not press his Amendment, because I think the effect of it would he to suggest that there might be liability in respect of
964LORD PARMOOR
965" liable to any suit, penalty, or censure, whether civil or ecclesiastical, for anything done or omitted to be done by hint in the performance of the duties of his office.": This is a technical matter, and provided the object which is in the mind of the right rev Prelate is attained, no one will be disposed to quarrel with the method adopted. I take the same view as the noble and learned Viscount, Lord Haldane, that the words in Section 1 of the 1907 Act are so wide as to cover the case raised by the right rev. Prelate. The words are—
965" liable to any suit, penalty, or censure, whether civil or ecclesiastical, for anything done or omitted to be done by hint in the performance of the duties of his office."THE LORD CHANCELLOR (LORD BIRKENHEAD)
" The immunity granted by the first proviso to the Section to any clergyman of the Church of England from any suit, penalty, or censure … is limited to the subject-matter of the enacting clause and relates to matters connected with the solemnisation of the marriage."v: This is a highly technichal matter on which I hardly venture to express an opinion, but I should think an answer to the right rev. Prelate is this. This Act has been in existence for fourteen years, and so far as I know no one has got into trouble for proclaiming or failing to proclaim banns. I should also have thought the point was decided once and for all in the case of Banister " The immunity granted by the first proviso to the Section to any clergyman of the Church of England from any suit, penalty, or censure … is limited to the subject-matter of the enacting clause and relates to matters connected with the solemnisation of the marriage."vLORD NEWTON
966: It is true that that was said in this House sitting judicially, and of course it is the law, but it does not touch the point which the right rev. Prelate
966VISCOUNT HALDANE
: It is not the second proviso, I think.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: Yes, it is the second proviso, really. You may do it as you please; perhaps we had better leave it to the Report stage.VISCOUNT HALDANE
: I think the words can be moved now and altered later if necessary.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
967: The object of the suggested new Amendment is directly in the teeth of that proposed by the right rev. Prelate. I agree with Lord Newton that we ought not to alter the provisions of the Deceased Wife's Sister's Marriage Act, which has been in operation a long time, by an Amendment to this Bill. The right rev. Prelate desires to make it clear, upon the face of the Bill, that a clergyman is absolved from the publication of such banns. I agree with the Lord Chancellor that this is so at the present; the point clearly comes within the words "duties of his office." The other proviso is of an entirely different character. It would enable a foreign clergyman to come into his church and publish banns when he himself was not liable to publish them and did not desire to publish them. The second proviso is used in cases in which licences are granted, but it has never been suggested that a foreign clergyman should come in and. publish the banns, and I hope any such idea, introduced at this stage, will not be brought into the provisions of the Bill. I hope the right rev. Prelate, if he with-
967LORD PARMOOR
: The suggested Amendment is not opposed to the one moved by the right rev. Prelate. I cannot understand the reasoning of Lord Parmoor. The right rev. Prelate was apprehensive that there was no power in the case where an incumbent refused to have the banns proclaimed, and he argued that unless it is expressed in an exclusive manner there is no provision at all for the publication of the banns. The right rev. Prelate wants one; the noble and learned Lord does not. The right rev. Prelate wants one thing; Lord Parmoor wants another. I want the Bill to be a working Bill, and I do not think we shall do any harm by inserting the words I suggest. We make it sure that the argument cannot be used against the right rev. Prelate hereafter.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: May I again explain my position? I should be perfectly satisfied to withdraw my Amendment on the assurance which has been given that a clergyman is not bound to publish the banns. The point with regard to the intruding clergyman was that the Act, as it stands, gives him leave to celebrate the marriage, but says nothing about publishing the banns. That made me fear that the clergyman whose conscience is now being considered was himself bound to publish the banns. Having heard that he is not, I am satisfied to leave the matter there. I have no wish to improve or alter the Act, or to say anything about facilities for publishing the banns, provided. I am quite certain, as I am, that a clergyman is not bound to publish the banns.THE LORD BISHOP OF NORWICH
969: I must protest again. We have got to a very difficult and dangerous point as regards the views of many members of the Church of England. There is no right for a foreign incumbent to come into the church of another clergyman and publish banns in a particular case. That is admitted, and there is a great objection to any such right being conferred. The noble and learned Viscount is really not cognisant of Church matters. What is done is this. A licence is asked for, and it may be granted if a clergyman is found who is willing to perform the service, although the incumbent is unwilling to perform it. What the right rev. Prelate desires is entirely different. He wants it to be quite clear that the incumbent himself is not obliged to publish banns in cases of this kind. The answer is to propose to allow a foreign clergyman to come in and publish the banns in these circumstances. But it has nothing to do with the right rev. Prelate's original Amendment, and I hope that an Amendment such as that moved by the noble and learned Viscount, which will be highly resented, I know, by the lay opinion of the Church, will not be introduced in this way. If an Amendment of this
969LORD PARMOOR
: I do not desire to speak on this particular point, but I was going to recommend the right rev. Prelate to withdraw his Amendment, as he has done, and not to fall into the slight snare of supporting the present Amendment, which is, of course, rather in the opposite sense to that which he desires. It would be quite ridiculous in working. Imagine that a clergyman has been found who will be ready to undertake to marry these two people. It is proposed to have them married by banns. The clergyman of the parish stands upon his right and says, "I will not marry them and I will not give out the banns." When the time comes for giving out banns a clergyman is to be brought from a distance—I am sure I do not know what his fees will be—he is to rise suddenly in the middle of giving out of banns and say, "And I give out the banns of A and B." He is to do this three times. Anything more absurd and impracticable I cannot conceive. I therefore venture to think that the Amendment now proposed is unnecessary, and to hope that it will lie defeated.LORD PHILLIMORE
970: I wonder if either of the noble Lords who have spoken on this point will be good enough to resolve my doubts upon one point. Supposing that the clergyman who, if he did not object, would be the proper clergyman to perform this function, says "I will not do it; I disapprove of marriage of this sort, and I will not perform the ceremony of publishing the banns "; and supposing, furthermore, that the licence is refused. The noble and learned Lord is familiar with these matters, and he will bell me whether I am right in supposing that there are cases in which the licence is refused. The original clergyman, therefore, has refused to publish the banns, and the licence has been refused. Is there any other means by which banns can be obtained? There is no other. It is here suggested that the banns shall be made unobtainable, although Parliament is now legislating in order that this marriage may be legalised in church, should the proper
970THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: Will the noble and learned Lord allow me to point out that I never had any occasion to vote or to speak upon it? I was not a member of your Lordships' House when the Deceased Wife's Sister's Marriage Act was passed.LORD PHILLIMORE
: Since the noble and learned Lord has referred to my attitude in this matter, may I be allowed to say that he is under a great misapprehension? I was one of those who were not opposed to the Deceased Wife's Sister's Marriage Bill. I thought that it was a matter of social life and not of religion, and, therefore, quite distinct from divorce. But when you come to the question of services in the Church an entirely different question arises. It may be that the clergyman is willing to publish the banns, but is not willing to perform the ceremony of marriage, or it may be that a licence may have been obtained, and therefore banns are not necessary; but the present position is that a foreign clergyman may come in and perform the marriage service. The effect of the Amendment is that the foreign clergyman would come in and take part in the ordinary service of the church. I think this Amendment is quite outside the present Bill. I do not wish to argue the point any further, but, as the Lord Chancellor has appealed to me, may I merely point out that I was not opposed to the Deceased Wife's Sister's Marriage Bill, but spoke in favour of it, though I was in a minority of churchmen in doing so?LORD PARMOOR
972971: Both the noble and learned Lords have been good enough to make observations but neither of them, by an accidental omission, has dealt with the only point which I wish to see
972971THE LORD CHANCELLOR
mutatis mutandis: The noble and learned Lord's zeal has carried him over some very rough country. He is entirely mistaken about myself. When the Deceased Wife's Sister's Marriage Bill was passed, I was a Judge, having no right to take part in politics. I was not, at that time, in this House or in the other House. As I understand it, the frame of this Bill is that, mutatis mutandisLORD PHILLINDRE
: I did not say so.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: What I wanted to bring before your Lordships' House was the absurdity and ridiculousness of a clergyman suddenly popping up, like a jack-in-the-box, and saying: "Now I come in here to give out the banns of A and B," which the incumbent will not do. I do not suppose the incumbent would mind, but I should think the congregation would be astonished and amused. Even supposing a clergyman were willing to do such a thing on three consecutive Sundays, I cannot believe that any couple would really desire that their marriage should be advertised by such a proceeding. All I wish to say, however, is that this proposal would be absolutely nugatory in practice.LORD PHILLIMORE
973: This debate has fallen largely into the hands of experts. I confess that I am very much at sea as to the arguments which have been employed, and I daresay that many other members of your Lordships' House are in the same position. I cannot understand what all the controversy is about Here is an Act which has been in existence for fourteen years and which, so far as I know, has created no difficulty whatsoever. No clergyman is obliged to celebrate one of these marriages, nor is he obliged to proclaim the banns. Where is-the grievance? Where is the danger? I gathered on the authority of an ex-Lord Chancellor, Lord Loreburn, that the clergyman who proclaimed the banns ran no,
973LORD NEWTON
: Before your Lordships go to Division I should like to explain one point. The noble and learned Lord seemed to have the impression that, in some fashion, the clergy are going to be compelled to let somebody come in and celebrate the banns. But in the proviso, as it stands, the clergyman is not compelled; it is only by his permission that this can be done. If he objects to celebrate a marriage, he can allow the other clergyman to come in and do it. It will be only by his permission, if this Amendment is accepted, that the other clergyman will come in to proclaim the banns. That is a very small matter and cannot give rise to the confusion that my noble and learned friend, Lord Phillimore, supposes will take place. It really is a blot on the law as it stands to-day that you have the right to get somebody to come into the church to marry you, if the clergyman agrees, but you have not the right to ask him, if he is willing, to come in to proclaim the banns. It seems a reasonable Amendment and brings the clause into relation with the proposals of the right rev. Prelate.VISCOUNT HAIDANE
974: It shows how mistakes arise. I was not in the House at the
974LORD PARMOOR
: Therefore, I do not remember it.VISCOUNT HALDANE
975" I am very much obliged to your Lordship for kindly putting down, for the Committee stage. an Amendment, confining the operation of Clause 7 so far as it concerns the Metropolitan borough councils, to the chief sanitary inspector of each council.… The omission of the clause the Council does not now wish to press.": My Lords, perhaps it would save time if I said one or two words in connection with a series of Amendments to Clause 7, which are on the Paper. I have been informed that this Bill, which, as I stated on the Second Reading, has the simple object of allowing certain officers to do their duty without fear or favour, in the interest of public health, has passed through all its stages in another House, and if it went back to that House with material alterations it would have very little chance of passing into law. I therefore want to make an appeal to the noble and learned Lord, Lord Phillimore, who has several Amendments on the Paper, not to press them at the present time, for that reason.975" I am very much obliged to your Lordship for kindly putting down, for the Committee stage. an Amendment, confining the operation of Clause 7 so far as it concerns the Metropolitan borough councils, to the chief sanitary inspector of each council.… The omission of the clause the Council does not now wish to press."LORD GAINFORD
: I do not think that the Government can accept this Amendment, and they would be prepared to support the noble Lord opposite (Lord Gainford) if he went to a Division. We think it would be unfair to place the sanitary inspectors of the metropolitan borough councils in an unfavourable position in this respect.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
primus inter pares" and the sanitary inspectors of the port sanitary authority."" shall apply to the sanitary inspectors of metropolitan borough councils.": May I suggest to the noble Lord opposite, who seems to have the master of the legions at his back, that he will want the word "chief" or "senior" twice. He will want it on line 17—
primus inter pares" and the sanitary inspectors of the port sanitary authority."" shall apply to the sanitary inspectors of metropolitan borough councils."LORD PHILLIMORE
: I should be very glad to accept. the words suggested by the noble Lord. I am told that if such words are inserted they would be regarded as purely drafting Amendments, and as merely harmonising the clause with Clause 2, and they would probably not imperil the Bill.LORD GAINFORD
: I understand that the noble Lord withdraws his Amendment.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: Yes.LORD PHILLIMORE
: Does that cover the other Amendment?THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: The other Amendment is withdrawn.LORD PHILLIMORE
981: My Lords, I have been asked to answer this Question on behalf of the Ministry of Transport. The matter is a fairly concise and simple one, and I think I can make it clear to the noble Marquess, Lord Aberdeen, who has asked the Question, exactly how the matter stands at the present moment. The rules under which vehicles which emit "smoke or visible vapour" are forbidden entry to Hyde Park and Regent's Park, are made by H.M. Office of Works as custodians of the Royal parks. Similar rules or by-laws could be made, no doubt by the London County Council as regards the parks under their control. It is clear that such considerations as the preservation of amenities, the danger of frightening saddle horses, and so on, arise in connection with parks and pleasure grounds, and that these considerations do not apply with equal force to the public highways.981THE. DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: My Lords, the grievance brought forward by the noble Marquess is a distinct one, and I think there can be no harm in ray supplementing the answer he has just received from the Government. The difficulty in dealing with this nuisance is really caused by the ambiguity of the various Acts. The Locomotives on Highways Act, 1896, to which allusion has been made, defines a motor ear as a vehicle winch "is so constructed that no smoke or visible vapour is emitted therefrom except from any temporary or accidental cause."LORD NEWTON
: That is the difficulty.THE MARQUESS OF ABERDEEN
: And the Light Locomotives and Motor Car Acts, which are generally known as the Motor Car Acts, do not impose any penalty in respect of the emission of vapour. But when such emission takes place, except from any temporary or accidental cause, the vehicle apparently ceases technically to be a motorcar and becomes subject to the enactments relating to road locomotives. That will give the noble Marquess an idea of the difficulties attending prosecution.LORD NEWTON
: Unfortunately, I am well aware of them.THE MARQUESS OF ABERDEEN
982: So long, therefore, as the vehicle remains technically a motor car it can emit as much vapour as it pleases, provided that emission is due to temporary or accidental causes. In those circumstances it is not surprising that the law is so obscure that it really is not enforced in practice. The noble Duke who replied for the Government did not inform the noble Marquess that the Royal Commission on Motor Cars which reported in 1906, and the Departmental Committee on Road Locomotives and Heavy Motor Cars, which reported in 1918, recommended that the law should be amended. But no notice whatever has beentaken of the recommendation, and when the noble Duke, in his reply, said that the Ministry of Transport did not propose to take any action in the
982LORD NEWTON
: My Lords, I am very pleased to hear what the noble Lord has said. I think there will be some advantage in this discussion; at any rate, I hope to bring forward the matter again at the first opportunity, with a view to securing a simplification of the law, which, as we have heard, is rather complicated and obscure at the present time.THE MARQUESS OF ABERDEEN AND TEMAIR
: Is it on the Paper?THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: No, it is not on the Paper. Is that necessary?LORD GAINFORD
: No, it is not necessary.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: It was pointed out to me that there can be only one chief or senior inspector of the port sanitary authority of the Port of London, and the word ought therefore to be in the singular instead of in the plural.LORD GAINFORD
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion standing in my name, for which there are adequate public reasons.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUOHMORE)
100710061005plus1004plus1003de factode jure10021001corpus1000s.corpuss.corpuscorpuscorpus.999998997996995994993992991990: My Lords, I hope I shall not he thought presumptuous, or wanting in proper reserve—I do not know what the procedure in the House will be to-day—if I ask to be associated very closely with the feelings which must be in the hearts of many members of this House and to be allowed to express the great sense of our loss in the passing away of that wise counsellor and trusted friend, Lord Balfour of Burlegh. I do this because I knew that I was able to count, and, indeed, should have relied, upon his wise guidance and sympathetic support in that which I am about to attempt this afternoon. When I was Bishop of Southwark, and he was serving in the Duchy of Cornwall, I was brought into close contact will him in approaching the difficult problems which confronted us in that diocese, and I there learned that his rich experience, his wisdom, his large-heartedness, his transparent sincerity, and his example of devotion to public service made his friendship a rare friendship for those who enjoyed it.100710061005plus1004plus1003de factode jure10021001corpus1000s.corpuss.corpuscorpuscorpus.999998997996995994993992991990THE LORD BISHOP OF OXFORD
1008: My Lords, this very important Bill raises a number of new and important issues, some of them of a very highly controversial nature, and in these circumstances I do not think that your Lordships will expect the Government to form an opinion as to the acceptability, or even the practicability, of the measure until considerably more time has been at their disposal to consider it thoroughly and adequately. Therefore, your Lordships will, I think, excuse me if I do not discuss the proposals in the Bill this afternoon. The right rev. Prelate told us that it is through no fault whatever of the promoters that it reached your Lordships' hands only yesterday morning. Time for its perusal and consideration has been extremely limited. The right rev. Prelate has also told us—and he was good enough to write to me yesterday to that effect—that he does not intend to take the Bill beyond its Second Reading stage, and, on that understanding, I am glad, on behalf of the Government, to be able to welcome the opportunity of obtaining a further ventilation and discussion of this most important, and in some respects highly controversial, proposal, both within your Lordships' House and outside it.1008THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
1012: My Lords, I will venture to make an appeal to the right rev. Prelate, and to ask him whether he cannot see his way not to press the Second Reading now. We are placed in the position—I, like most of your Lordships—that we first saw this Bill only forty-eight hours ago. The right rev. Prelate explained and apologised for the accident, and I recognise that it was not his fault; but the fact remains that we have not been able to consider the Bill. It is a very far-reaching and complicated measure. The right rev. Prelate's own explanation of it was very lucid, but, when he came to the latter part, I confess that I was unable to follow very closely. It is a very intricate matter. In that case, is it fair to ask the
1012THE EARL OF PLYMOUTH
1013: My Lords, I do not think that anyone who has listened to the discussion can feel that the request that has been made, that we should not be asked to give a Second Reading to this Bill to-day, is an unreasonable one. It seems to me a perfectly fair and right thing to demand. The Bill has not been long in your Lordships' hands, and, even if it had been, I can imagine that it might have been a little difficult to have arrived readily at a judgment upon a matter of such very great importance. Everyone
1013THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
: I beg the noble Lord's pardon; I did not anticipate any future announcement as to the terms of the Government Bill.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
1016: May I point out that the noble Viscount is not speaking
1016LORD SALTOUN
: Certainly my intention is that the debate shall be resumed.THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
: My Lords, the Amendment which has been made in another place to your Lordships' Amendment is a small one. Words have been added to Clause 4 to secure that the proviso should operate in regard to existing companies, and companies formed for the purpose of reconstruction or amalgamation, and not in regard to new companies. I beg to move that the Amendment be agreed to.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
10281027102610251024Morning Post1023: My Lords, when I first saw my noble friend's Question upon the Paper I was in sonic doubt as to what his motive could have been in asking it, because the suppression of disorder and the protection of life and property is the duty of the executive Government of India, as of the Government in every country in the world. And I feel that I might, perhaps, have answered my noble friend in a sentence by saying that in order to protect the lives and property of Europeans and loyal Indians the Government will take Whatever steps appear to them to be necessary in any situation which may develop from day to day.10281027102610251024Morning Post1023THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
: May I thank the noble Earl for his very complete reply to my Question? I cannot help saying that he has attacked me for things I never said. I never spoke of the danger of a rising. I spoke of a rising as being a less dangerous thing than non-co-operation in its effect upon the lives of our countrymen. He spoke as though I had attacked some one. I was not attacking any one, still less was I making any sort of reflection on Lord Sinha in Bihar, whose recent circular I know of and who has been attacked by his fellow countrymen in consequence of it. I am glad to know that the noble Earl looks upon this non-co-operation movement, as I do, as a very serious danger. I am glad to learn that he agrees with me absolutely on that point. Therefore, I do not think I have done any harm in raising this matter this afternoon.LORD SYDENHAM
1015: In any case, I understand from the public Press that the Licensing Bill is going to be based on the Report of the Commons Committee, and is to deal mainly, if not entirely, with certain Regulations and restrictions of the Liquor Control Board. I gather that it is not going to contain any new Regulations or restrictions, but is to continue the policy of relaxation which has been going on ever since the Armistice. That is to say, that if that Bill is carried into law, if a certain number of Regulations are made statutory and permanent, we shall have less restriction and regulation than we had in December, 1916.1015VISCOUNT ASTOR
1014: My Lords, the right rev. Prelate, in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, told us at the outset that he was bringing it forward in order to stimulate public discussion. He also Kidd that he thought it was essential that we should not lose the gains which we have obtained during the war. Perhaps your Lordships will allow me to add a few words upon the Bill, as having been one of the original members of the Liquor Control Board. Like most bodies that helped to win the war, from the Liquor Control Board to the War Cabinet, that particular body has been the subject of a considerable amount of criticism and misrepresentation recently. I think, however, that all who have followed its proceedings will agree that it; did an enormous amount to increase the efficiency of the country, and, therefore, to bring about the successful prosecution of the war.1014VISCOUNT ASTOR
: May I make a suggestion? I should very greatly regret if this House had not an opportunity of considering this measure, and perhaps even more, of considering the policy of which this measure seems to me to be a somewhat inadequate expression, more carefully than we can to-day. We have not really had a fair chance, as the right rev. Prelate admits, of considering the Bill. I am, therefore, in favour of the adjournment, but I am in favour of the adjournment only if it means that this Bill is to have further consideration, and not if it means that this Bill is to be dropped and forgotten. If there was any danger of that I should feel very reluctantly compelled to vote against the adjournment and in favour of the Second Reading. I do not wish to do that, but I want the matter to be much more thoroughly considered than it would be, or perhaps could be, to-day. It occurs to me that I should like to hear the argument of Lord Astor, which I believe is not by any means exhausted, on a more suitable occasion. I really think he may be out of order now, because the Motion before the House is for the adjournment of the debate. I venture to press upon your Lordships that the best thing would be to adjourn the debate, but only if we get an undertaking from some one—perhaps the Archbishop of Canterbury will give us such an undertaking—that the discussion will really be resumed, and the matter thoroughly thrashed out, during the present session.VISCOUNT MILNER
: My Lords, I have to inform your Lordships that His Majesty has been pleased to create Frederick Edwin, Baron Birkenhead, Lord Chancellor, a Viscount of the United Kingdom by the style and title of Viscount Birkenhead of Birkenhead in the County of Chester.EARL CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: My Lords, if I might intervene for a single moment, may I say that there can be no doubt about one point, and that is that this is a Bill of very great importance. Notwithstanding the most able and painstaking explanation which was offered by the right rev. Prelate in support of his measure, I am bound to add that I have not been able to find from more than one member of your Lordships' House that any noble Lord has had an opportunity of reading this Bill with the care for which it undoubtedly calls. So far as I am concerned, I had never even seen it until I came into the House, and took a copy from the case close by this Table. In these circumstances, I agree entirely with the speech of the noble Lord, Lord Sumner, and with my noble friend who has just resumed his seat. I hope that the right rev. Prelate will not ask the House of Lords to commit itself to the principle of this Bill. It is impossible for the majority of your Lordships to have reached a thorough understanding of it, and I hope the Second Reading will not be pressed.VISCOUNT CHAPLIN
10111010contretemps: My Lords, it is only the fact, that the right rev. Prelate made some reference to a Committee of which I had the honour to be Chairman, and whose Report has come to be described by my name, that leads me to intervene at all in this debate. I have had no opportunity of considering the details of this Bill for the reason which has been explained, and which, I take it, makes it impossible for your Lordships to pretend to exercise any judgment on the scheme to-day. I should have thought it was wholly impossible to take the Second Reading of a complicated measure like this after the 10111010contretempsLORD SUMNER
: My Lords, I am glad that the Government have at least taken up an attitude that is not unfriendly, although it is non-committal. In Scotland we have had an Act which embodies sonic features, at any rate, closely analogous to those in this Bill, and we have had experience which has led us to conclude—what sonic of us expected to find before—that the democracy is very safely to he trusted with powers of this kind. Its action in Scotland has been of a highly conservative character, and I do not doubt that the action of the democracy in England, were this Bill to become law, would be equally careful and meticulous. I do not think that there is anything to be feared from that part of the Bill which gives the three options, nor do I think the setting up of such powers of control as are dealt with in another Part of the Bill would be very likely to lead to danger. The Carlisle experiment has satisfied many of us that steps in that direction may be taken with great advantage.VISCOUNT HALDANE
status1035: My Lords, I feel that it is almost intrusive On my part to add a word to what has been said with remarkable force, lucidity, eloquence and pathos by
status1035THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
My Lords, I beg to make the Motion standing in my name.THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON):
: My Lords, the Provisional Orders scheduled in this Bill relate to Bridport harbour, Brighton marine palace and pier, Fowey harbour, and Llanelly harbour. They are in the usual form, and have encountered no opposition. I beg to move that the Bill be now read a second time.THE EARL OF LYTTON
1045ddddddddddsdsds1044ddsdsdd: My Lords, the object of this Bill is to meet the situation which has arisen owing to the increased cost of administration falling upon the approved societies. It increases the contribution of those societies towards the cost of insurance committees from 41045ddddddddddsdsds1044ddsdsddTHE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: All the Amendments on the Paper in my name are drafting.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
en bloc: As all the Amendments are drafting, unless any noble Lord desires to raise any particular point, it may be more convenient that they should be put en blocTHE LORD CHANCELLOR
1052: I think we should be very ungrateful on this side of the House if we did not add our tribute to the work of Lord Muir Mackenzie and his Committee. The Report is a monument of care; the Bill is a monument of care. I have not gone through it, and Heaven forbid that I should discuss its details, but
1052VISCOUNT HALDANE
: My Lords, I ask leave to introduce a Bill to renew Section 2 of the Juries (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1920, and to move that it be read a first time.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: My Lords, I ask have to introduce a Bill to consolidate and amend the law relating to trusts in Scotland, and to move that it be read a first time.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1038: I ask leave to introduce a Bill to make provision
1038THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, as I took some part in the discussion on this matter, and your Lordships accepted the advice which I ventured to give, that the Amendment of the noble and learned Viscount should be adopted perhaps I may be allowed to say a word or two. The noble and learned Viscount and myself were impelled towards the course we adopted from a. desire to assist the right rev. Prelate in relation to an Amendment which he had put down. That was the beginning and the end of my association with the matter. In spite of that fact, I acquiesce in the course which your Lordships are now asked to adopt. The matter can be put in a nutshell. We were in a position to effect a slight improvement in the Deceased Wife's Sister Act by filling up an omission. The Amendment which was proposed produced that result.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1033: My Lords, I had intended on Thursday last to say a few words, at the commencement of business, on the deplorably sudden death of Lord Balfour of Burleigh, which had occurred on the evening before. Unfortunately, in the brief interval that elapsed between my leaving the House after taking my seat and returning to this bench, I found that public business had begun, and that another noble Lord was already addressing your Lordships. I hope, however, that it is not too late to say a word or two about the noble Lord who, for the best part of half a century, was one of our most powerful and influential members, and who was highly esteemed in every quarter of this House.1033THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (The MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
1040: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Newton, who-has had charge of this Bill up to to-day, asked me if I would undertake to move the Third Reading if he should be detained, and I presume he has been detained, at a meeting of the Inter-Departmental Committee on Smoke Abatement, of which he is Chairman. He thought it would be more convenient and more respectful to the House that the Bill should be dealt with to-day than that he should ask the House to postpone it.1040LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: I beg to move that this Bill be now passed.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: I do not agree on the technical part of the noble Lord's contention.VISCOUNT HALDANE
1041: My Lords, my noble friend who is, for the present, in charge of this Bill, has made an appeal to me. He does not make that appeal in vain. The Bill is his, or Lord Newton's, and they are the persons who are entitled to shape it. Stimulated by the investigations of the right rev. Prelate the Bishop of Norwich, I thought I had found a flaw in the Deceased Wife's Sister's Marriage Act which I was desirous of amending. I still think so. At the same time, it is a flaw to which this Bill was not primarily directed, and I am quite willing to take
1041VISCOUNT HALDANE
1036: My Lords, I desire to add a very few words to what has been so well said with regard to Lord Balfour of Burleigh. We all deplore his loss. The one dominant characteristic of
1036VISCOUNT FINLAY
Impavidum ferient ruina.Impavidum ferient ruina.Si fractus inlabatur orbis,Si fractus inlabatur orbis,Mente quatit solidaMente quatit solidaNon vultus instantis tyranniNon vultus instantis tyranniNon civium ardor pram jubentium,Non civium ardor pram jubentium,Justum et tenacenm propositi viramJustum et tenacenm propositi viram1034: My Lords, I greatly regret that the unavoidable absence of the noble Marquess, Lord Crewe, prevents you from hearing, in phrases the felicity of which I cannot rival, an expression of how deeply and sincerely we upon these benches, who did not always agree with the political opinions of the noble Lord, Lord Balfour of Burleigh, feel and share in the sentiments to which the noble Marquess, the Leader of the House, has just given such effective and such impressive utterance. It was impossible for any one
Impavidum ferient ruina.Impavidum ferient ruina.Si fractus inlabatur orbis,Si fractus inlabatur orbis,Mente quatit solidaMente quatit solidaNon vultus instantis tyranniNon vultus instantis tyranniNon civium ardor pram jubentium,Non civium ardor pram jubentium,Justum et tenacenm propositi viramJustum et tenacenm propositi viram1034LORD BUCKMASTER
1037: My Lords, were it not that I have, during the past two years, been in very intimate association with my dead friend, I should leave to those eloquent voices which your Lordships have just heard the expression of the sorrow of this House. Probably the last letter that Lord Balfour wrote was to myself. He asked my co-operation and consultation with him on a matter seriously affecting the higher learning of Scotland. I was about to put pen to paper to reply when I learned of his serious illness, and on the following morning came the sad announcement of his death.1037LORD SHAW
: My Lords, perhaps I may say a word at this stage; it will probably prevent the necessity of my saying anything upon the Amendment which stands in my name to be moved after Third Reading. I have a letter from Lord Newton, to which he wishes me to refer if it is in order to do so, and I think it is so far in order. He says: "I hope you will carry your Amendment." That means that the Bill should he left in the shape in which it was when it was introduced into this House. Perhaps I may call your Lordships' attention to this point. Unless the Amendment which was brought forward by the noble and learned Viscount is omitted, as I shall propose it should be, the title of the Bill must necessarily be amended, and the Bill, in its amended form, might receive a very different reception in the other House from that which it received in its original form.LORD PARMOOR
: I now move the Amendment standing in my name.LORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion standing in my name, for which I have been furnished with adequate public reasons.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES(THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE)
: My Lords, I beg to propose the Motion standing in my name.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
106610651064: My Lords, I should like to say a word or two in support of what my noble friend Lord Oran more and Browne has just said. He has dealt very exhaustively with the history of the various proposals that have been made, and the Bills that have been passed, with regard to land purchase, and the promises that were made and were accepted in Ireland as indicating that what was necessary would be done to bring to completion in Ireland a system which had been found to be beneficent, I think, beyond that of any measure which has ever been introduced in Great Britain for Ireland.106610651064THE EARL OF DESART
: And the form of the Question.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1067: I quite follow, but as a matter of fact, owing to the somewhat informal conversation, there was no suggestion made as to anything happening in the future. We were told there was to be no autumn session, and it meant an extremely long postponement of the whole matter. I think that may be, and I hope it will be, put right to-night. I trust that we shall hear from the Government that they have something definite in view, and that they will tell us what it is. I am not particular about the form. What is wanted is something that the Irish people will believe is genuine, and will be carried out, and will get rid of the evil. I need not go through them all again, but at various times assurances have been given to us in Ireland that definite Bills would be proceeded with at certain times and in certain ways, and none of those promises have so far been fulfilled. We all know what the difficulties may be, but they are not appreciated, and never can be appreciated, by the tenant farmer of Ireland.1067THE EARL OF DESART
1068: My Lords, I venture to think that the position and attitude taken up by my noble friend, Lord Oranmore and Browne, is rather illogical, if he will forgive me for saying so. It seems but a few days ago that he was supporting the argument for giving complete fiscal control to Ireland, including all taxation, Excise and Customs, and even, if I understood him, giving the choice and decision to an Irish Parliament of how much of Ireland's share of the war debt should he paid by Ireland, if any was to be paid at all. Surely this is the greatest mark of confidence in an Irish Parliament that was ever made by any Unionist, and if there is this confidence in the fair-dealing of an Irish Parliament, such a domestic matter as the question of Irish land must be left to an Irish Parliament also.1068THE EARL OF ARRAN
1069: My Lords, I feel in some difficulty about this matter. My noble friend, at the instance of the Government, has on two or three occasions postponed consideration of this pledge, the carrying out of which, as noble Lords who have spoken made perfectly clear, is absolutely essential to the well-being of Ireland if any scheme of Home Rule is to be worked. The Government, undoubtedly, are in a very difficult position arising from their having given pledges, reiterated again and again, that, as a matter of honour, this question would be dealt with. Yet we were told at the end of the session that there was no prospect of a Bill being introduced. On the other hand, we all know that every hour of the time-table of the House of Commons is allotted, and, considering the weather that we are now experiencing, we could hardly ask Parliament to sit through September in order to carry this Bill. The Government no doubt feel in some difficulty, because the negotiations necessitate very careful reconsideration of the financial position between Ireland and this country. I should be very sorry to feel that this country was likely to be asked to raise any extensive loan for this purpose at the present moment. I believe it would be impossible for the Government to carry it in another place.1069THE EARL OF MIDLETON
107210711070: My Lords, I so entirely agree with the observations made by Lord Arran as to the convenience of this debate, or such a Motion at this moment, that I should have been glad to leave my remarks where they were left by that noble Earl. It is true, as everyone knows, that the Government was deeply pledged, and is of course deeply pledged, on this question. But it is also clear that any undertaking of that kind must be construed in relation to the circumstances as they existed then, and as they were anticipated by most people at the time. The noble Lord who has moved the Motion is never tired of calling attention to the close association of these proposals, and of pledges given in relation to them, with our Home Rule Act. That association, indeed, was very close; it always has been very close. The noble Lord says that the
"powder" of Home 'Rule was accepted by him and his friends with an accompaniment of "jam," which was represented by the proposals to which he is calling attention.107210711070THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
1075"We, the executive committee of the Irish Landowners' Convention, hereby express our profound surprise and disappointment at the postponement of the Bill for the completion of the purchase of Irish land, and the failure of the Government to pass the Land Purchase Act, which was promised to be placed on the Statute Book concurrently with the Government of Ireland Act, 1920; and we urge upon the Government the necessity of immediately introducing and passing such a measure, and thus fulfilling their definite obligations to both landowners and tenants in Ireland."10741073: My Lords, I shall not detain the House very long, but I should like to say a few words before I deal with the remarks of the Lord Chancellor. I think Lord Oranmore and Browne deserves the thanks of every farmer
1075"We, the executive committee of the Irish Landowners' Convention, hereby express our profound surprise and disappointment at the postponement of the Bill for the completion of the purchase of Irish land, and the failure of the Government to pass the Land Purchase Act, which was promised to be placed on the Statute Book concurrently with the Government of Ireland Act, 1920; and we urge upon the Government the necessity of immediately introducing and passing such a measure, and thus fulfilling their definite obligations to both landowners and tenants in Ireland."10741073THE EARL OF MAYO
: The noble Earl must forgive me, but I expressly made it plain that I took the two subjects together because I wished to pay the noble Lord who raised the Question the compliment of following his argument. It was he who associated the two subjects.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1076: I beg to apologise if I have made a mistake. First of all, what has the trouble in Ireland to do with the policy of the Government with regard to a Land Purchase Bill? Nothing whatever. It is a perfectly separate subject, and in the terrible times which we have had in Ireland the land trouble has not cropped up at all. I remember, as no doubt other noble Lords do, the time of the Land League. There has been nothing of that sort at all. It has been absolutely a question of trying to beat British rule in Ireland, and the land question has not entered into the matter at all, although it is true, and I regret it, that Protestant farmers have been killed and attempts have been made to seize their farms.1076THE EARL OF MAYO
1077: My Lords, I regret that an important engagement prevented me from hearing the earlier part of the discussion this evening, but I had the good fortune to hear the whole of the remarks of the Lord Chancellor. I can understand that he speaks with a certain amount of embarrassment at the present moment, but, after all, there was great truth in what was said by the Earl of Mayo, that the present disorders and condition of things in Ireland have nothing really to do with the obligation resting upon His Majesty's Government to fulfil the assurance which they gave to Parliament when the Home Rule Bill was passing into law. As regards the situation in. Ireland, and what are called the negotiations, this is not the time to discuss those matters. I have my own opinion as to the discreditable position in which His Majesty's Government have placed themselves by their mismanagement of the affairs of Ireland, and I can only hope that there will be no such consequence as many people fear— namely, that the interests of this country and of the Empire, and of the loyalists in Ireland, will be sacrificed to the exigencies of policy by which His Majesty's Government find themselves faced.1077THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I am very unaccustomed, hope, to speak in the language of ambiguity, and I think that any noble Lord who reads what I say tomorrow will see quite clearly what I meant, but, if there is any ambiguity, let me now make it plain. I said, in answer to Lord Midleton, that I hoped and believed that, if a settlement was attained, the settlement would include and dispose of this; and I went even further and said that in my judgment it must. I then considered the other case— namely, that the settlement broke down— and I said it still continued to be the policy of the Government to carry out this policy, but that, if Ireland was going to be in a state of armed revolution, if a state of war was going on, if the Home Rule Act, which was the complementary policy of this, completely broke down in the South, we reserved to ourselves the most complete discretion as to the precise moment when this should be done.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1078: Of course, if the policy of the Government comes to absolute shipwreck, no doubt
1078THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, the noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack stated that the circumstances were entirely different at the pre sent time from those which existed at the time that His Majesty's Government made a promise to pass simultaneously a Home Rule Bill and a Land Purchase Bill. I am afraid I cannot entirely agree with the Lord Chancellor in that respect. It seems to me the circumstances are very much the same, except that they have become aggravated since that time. The same state of civil war was in existence, which the Government hoped would cease once their Bill became law. The noble and learned Viscount also rather contended that I associated too closely the two portions of the Government policy— that of the Home Rule Act and that of a Land Purchase Bill.LORD ORANMORE AND BROWNE
: No, I did not.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1079: I rather understood that, but perhaps I was mistaken. But I understood very distinctly, and I thought a good many people did, that one of the objects of passing a Land Purchase Bill was that the new Governments which are to be set up in Ireland should not have thrown on them at the earliest possible moment the heavy responsibility of dealing with so
1079LORD ORANMORE AND BROWNE
: Will the noble Lord allow me? This I also made very plain. I said over and over again that as the price of peace, as an accompaniment of peace, there were no limits which I desired to set as to the concessions that the Government would make in financial matters. I disputed altogether the propriety and the wisdom of making any announcement, in an amending Bill, of financial alterations when there was no apparent prospect at all of peace. That is a very different proposition.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1080: I am very glad to obtain that very important statement from the Lord Chancellor. If I may mention the small point in which he said that we did not accept very graciously
1080LORD ORANMORE AND BROWNE
: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill, which is entirely technical in its character, be read a second time.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
The Earl of Donoughmore.: My Lords, with reference to this Bill there are adequate reasons why your Lordships should dispense with the sessional order, and I move accordingly.The Earl of Donoughmore.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE)
The Earl of Donoughmore.: My Lords, in view of the approach of the end of the session, it is important that this Bill should be got through. No one will be damnified by the suspension of the Standing Order, which I beg to move.The Earl of Donoughmore.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES
1084: My Lords, I desire to ask what is the position of the Government with regard to this Bill. I notice that serious Amendments have been put down by the promoter of the Bill which, if they are carried by your Lordships, will require that the Bill shall, go back to the House of Commons. Then, as your Lordships who have been members of another place are aware, it goes back merely as a Private Bill, and there will be no time for those Amendments to be considered in another place, unless the Government are prepared to give facilities. The effect will be that the Bill will be dead, and that would be a great injury to the people of England, who are perfectly satisfied with the Bill as it stands. I appreciate the
1084LORD STRACHIE
1085: My Lords, I hope the noble Lord who has just spoken does not desire to pass an imperfect measure through this House. I do not rise to make any further reference to what he has said, but to ask the noble Lord in charge of the Bill one or two questions. I had meant to put down Amendments for this stage, but by an unfortunate chapter of accidents I was unable to do so, because I was not in the House yesterday or on Tuesday. There are only two points to which I want to draw attention, with the leave of the House. In the debate on the Second Reading the noble and learned Lord, Lord Buckmaster, stated most emphatically, as his considered opinion, that the whole of our import trade is left out of this Bill altogether, and in another sentence, he said: "It does not apply to corn which at the date of the contract was not within the United Kingdom." I bow to the legal opinion of my noble and learned friend, and I dare say that he is perfectly right in that opinion, but I should like to have a definite assurance that this is the considered view, not only of the noble Lord in charge of the Bill— for I know that is what he intends— but also of His Majesty's Government. If that be the case, there would be no necessity for me to move any Amendment in regard to it, either at this or any future stage.1085LORD EMMOTT
: My Lords, in reply to Lord Strachie may I say that the Amendments are put down on the initiative of my noble friend, Lord Clinton who is the patron and sponsor of the Bill, and who has come to the conclusion that these two changes will make the Bill into a thoroughly workmanlike measure in certain respects where he now believes it to be defective. So far as the Government are concerned, Lord Clinton has been good enough to take into consultation my noble friend beside me (the Earl of Ancaster), and the Government have not the smallest objection to either of Lord Clinton's Amendments. Indeed, they will support them, but I think it unwise to suggest at the present stage that unless the Government can promise facilities in another place for consideration of these Amendments, the Amendments should therefore be defeated, and that your Lordships should take upon yourselves the responsibility of passing a measure which the promoters themselves admit to be defective.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: As regards Scotland.LORD STRACHIE
1086: My Lords, I agree with Lord Strachie that it is very unfortunate that an Amendment has to be moved to a private measure which will, no doubt, make it more difficult to get that measure passed before the end of the session. At the same time, I am confident that unless the Amendment relating to Scotland is inserted in the measure the Bill is quite incomplete so far as Scotland is concerned, and I. myself will not be responsible for pressing any measure which is so obviously open to criticism. With regard to Lord Emmot's point, upon which the noble and learned Lord opposite, Lord Buckmaster, was good enough to speak, and to make an exceedingly effective reply the other night, I would say that that reply was entirely in accordance with my reading of the measure, and it was certainly
1086LORD CLINTON
: I do not propose to move any Amendment now. It is hardly fair to the House to do so. I could only raise my point on the question that the clause stand part.LORD EMMOTT
1088"for or relating to corn grown outside the British Isles until such corn has been brought into these Islands.": I should like to ask the noble Lord in charge of the Bill whether he can give me a more definite answer regarding the opinion of the Government on the question I raised as to the effect of the clause as it now stands on our import trade. The point about which certain traders are nervous is this. The original form of words when the Bill was introduced, was—
1088"for or relating to corn grown outside the British Isles until such corn has been brought into these Islands."LORD EMMOTT
: After all, you do not want legal opinions on matters that are plain, and if there be any doubt as to the meaning of this paragraph, it should at least be capable of being stated in order that one may know what is the cause of the uncertainty. I turn to the paragraph and I find no case for doubt at all, unless I totally misapprehend the nature of the commercial transactions to which Lord Emmott refers. If these purchases of corn for re-export are made while the corn is in transit then that corn is not within the United Kingdom when the contract is made. If these contracts are made when the corn has been landed, unless it has been taken out of the warehouse, or store or shed, where it was put on importation, equally the Bill does not apply. It expressly provides that it shall not apply so long as the corn remains in the warehouse, store, or shed, where it was first stored on importation. I am consequently quite unable to understand what is the mystery and difficulty.LORD BUCKMASTER
: I am sorry if I have not made it clear. The real doubt, as I understand it, in the minds of the traders, is whether corn imported into the United Kingdom also means corn before it is imported into the United Kingdom; corn bought for shipment or in transit.LORD EMMOTT
1089: The noble Lord has really taken two paragraphs, mixed them up together, and has produced confusion from the natural process of putting two things together which are intended to be read separately. Proviso (ii) is not in relation to corn imported at all. It provides that the whole Bill shall not apply to corn which at the date of the contract was not within the United Kingdom. If, therefore, these contracts are made for corn that is in course of shipment, the Bill does not apply.1089LORD BUCKMASTER
: I do not think the noble Lord will expect me to give him a further reply on the point, and I hope he will not expect me to face such terrible things as would happen if I asked a Law Officer of the Crown for his opinion.LORD CLINTON
status1099: My Lords, I desire to ask His Majesty's Government when it is proposed to issue the revised Regulations governing the Territorial Cadet Force. I should like very briefly to explain the considerations which led me to put down this Question. As chairman of the recruiting committee of the County of Essex Territorial Association I have been brought into very close contact with the cadet movement throughout the county. The Force at present is regulated by War Office letters issued from time to time, and I am informed that these are not, in many cases, available for issue broadcast, and also that this method of administration by letter leads to a lack of co-ordination. For example, I understand that several counties have issued what amounts to their own regulations for their own counties, and I think my noble friend (Viscount Peel) will agree that that is not a very desirable, state, of things, though apparently it is inevitable under present conditions.status1099LORD O'HAGAN
1101: My Lords, I am very grateful to the noble Viscount for the answer he has given to my Question. I should, however, like to have some further information in regard to the issue of clothing, which is a most important question in relation to the Cadet Force. As regards the 6s., in the south of my own county of Essex we have to deal with a large population in what is practically London-over-the-border. Such training as is given by the Cadet Force and other organisations is most necessary, and can be most valuable. Want of funds for uniforms is one of the greatest handicaps we have to bear, and, though I do not wish to pursue the subject, that is an illustration of why I have ventured again to put the point to the noble Viscount. As I say, I am very much obliged to him for what he has said and I am sure everybody will be
1101LORD O'HAGAN
: The Trust (Scotland) Bill is, of course, in the main, a Consolidation Bill.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
11041103: In the main. There are certainly four or five amendments of the law which no doubt your Lordships would desire to consider. The Bill now stands on the Paper for Third Reading on Tuesday, but I propose, after what Lord Salisbury has said, to put that off till Wednesday, which at any rate will give Peers the opportunity of talking the matter over when they meet again on Tuesday next, and, if they so agree, we will take the Bill on Wednesday. If not, we can
11041103THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
s: In addition to the 6sVISCOUNT PEEL
: Does the noble Earl mean free rations, or rations on repayment?VISCOUNT PEEL
1100: My Lords, I am well aware of the interest which my noble friend Lord O'Hagan takes in the Cadet Force and the extent to which he has assisted it in the county of Essex. He has raised one or two points in connection with inspection and administration; that is to say, the responsibility as between the Association and the Divisions. If he will inform me a little more in detail what those particular difficulties are I shall be very glad to get the information in regard to them.1100VISCOUNT PEEL
: I beg to move that this Bill do now pass.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I cannot answer that question with absolute certainty, but I was informed that the payments have been made at the proper dates. Whether there has been any delay in one case, I cannot state absolutely without inquiry, but I think the general position is so far satisfactory that repayments are being made to date.VISCOUNT PEEL
: The great Act of 1902 is also superseded.VISCOUNT PEEL
1097: My Lords, I must condole with the noble Lord opposite that the Act of 1870 is removed from the Statute Book, but I will point out to him that it is better that the achievements of the past should be buried in a Consolidation Act than in entire oblivion, and perhaps that will console him. But he made a criticism of the Government when he said that there was undue hurry in carrying this Bill. I do not think there is very much chance that this Bill, like others, will be removed at an early stage from the Statute Book, but I should like to say how very fully considered the whole matter has been. He suggests that the Bill ought to be hung up in order that the public might have some opportunity of criticising it. But surely this is one of those cases where the opinions of the public are
1097VISCOUNT PEEL
1091: My Lords, your Lordships will remember that last year you passed a measure to enable the Government to finance exports from this country, to countries distressed and disorganised by the war, to the extent of £ 26,000,000. "This Bill contemplates a different method of carrying out these advances. The old method was by direct advances. This Bill proceeds by guaranteeing bills drawn against exports from this country up to 80 per cent. of the face value of the bill. There are two advantages inherent in this method. In the first place, no money will pass except in the case of default, and, in the second place, the transaction of financing will be carried out in the ordinary way by the banks, with whom there will be as little interference as possible. There will, however, be this guarantee by the Government.1091THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
: Yes, I can give it. I did not want to trouble the House with figures.VISCOUNT PEEL
dsdsds: The total amount of advances sanctioned is £ 2,612,639 1dsdsdsVISCOUNT PEEL
: My Lords, I beg leave to introduce a Bill for the better regulating of advertisements on hoardings, and to move that it be now read a first time.LORD ASKWITH
: I had no intention of reflecting in any way upon the Committee, The only criticism which I was attempting to make was that the Government were pressing this Bill through the House rather too rapidly.LORD GAINFORD
"Provided that the appointed day for the purposes of Part IV of this Act and the repeal of the enactments relating to school attendance shall not be earlier than the termination of the war."1094caveat: The Act of 1870 is. in my judgment, the sound foundation of all educational progress in this country. The Act of 1902, of course, would never have passed into law had it not been for its greater predecessor. What I wanted to say was that this seems to me to be an opportune moment for the passing of a Consolidation Bill into law. This is one of the few years in which an Amending Bill connected with education has not been introduced by the Government, and, therefore, it is an opportunity which ought to be seized. A Bill of this kind is very much wanted by the members of all the educational authorities in the country, and it is right that the public should be able to understand the Education Laws by a simple reference to one Statute, rather than have to wade through the mass of great Education Acts and the various Amending Acts which have been passed."Provided that the appointed day for the purposes of Part IV of this Act and the repeal of the enactments relating to school attendance shall not be earlier than the termination of the war."1094caveatLORD GAINFORD
: My Lords, I should like to say a word or two on this Bill before it leaves your Lordships' House. It is a Bill which has required a great deal of work from the very able Committee consisting of members of both Houses, and I want to pay my tribute to their painstaking efforts and to congratulate them on the fruits of their labours. Where a Bill of this kind repeals thirty-one Educational Statutes, one cannot but hesitate for one moment in accepting such a consolidation. First of all, I feel that to part with the great Education Act of 1870, and to have it obliterated entirely from the Statute Book, is a theme which causes one to think.LORD GAINFORD
1095: I do not know that it is usual for a member of the House, who happens to have been Chairman of a Committee of this kind, to enter into anything like a defence of what was done by that Committee; and I do not think it would be desirable that I should create a precedent, because the whole position of Joint Committees appointed to deal with
1095LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
1096: With regard to that it occurs to me that the remarks of the noble Lord were remarks that ought to have been made on the Second Reading. I certainly should have been glad myself if the noble Lord had made his remarks on the Second Reading, and possibly have saved me and others the task that we have gone through. But I think I remember that the noble Viscount (Lord Peel), when he introduced this Bill, stated to the House that it had been considered to more than the usual extent by various authorities interested, who are entitled to speak on these matters. I must say, from what appeared before us, that it seemed as if every consideration had been given to these matters.1096LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: There are '' five Amendments down in my name. I think, as I have already alluded to the only two that do not raise merely verbal questions, perhaps your Lordships will allow me to move them without going into particulars.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
1092: I am very much obliged to the noble. Viscount for that information. It certainly shows that the. national commitments are very serious. The noble Viscount says there have been no losses incurred up to date, which is a very reassuring statement. Have these advances that have been made been in all cases repaid when they were due. or do those advances now outstanding, although it is assumed that there will be no loss upon them, cover advances the time for
1092LORD BUCKMASTER
: I think it is important.LORD BUCKMASTER
: My Lords, before your Lordships consent to the Second Reading of this Bill, I shall be glad if the noble Viscount can give the House some information as to the extent to which guarantees have already been given under the Act of 1920, and the extent of the existing commitments. I should also like to know if any losses have been incurred under these guarantees up to the present time. The noble Viscount may not be able to give the information.LORD BUCKMASTER
: But not entirely, I understand.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
1102: My Lords, before the House adjourns I am rather anxious to ask the noble Earl two questions. The first has reference to the Housing (Scotland) Bill which stands upon
1102THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Yes. May I say that everything is in addition.THE EARL OF DARTMOUTH
: I take it that the hope is that the rations would be free.THE EARL OF DARTMOUTH
s: My Lords, I should like to say a word about what has fallen from the noble Viscount. The quarterly meeting of the Council of the Territorial Association was held yesterday, and this was one of the questions considered. It was strongly felt that many things were necessary, but having regard to the tendency in the country generally to wave the anti-waste banner, I do not imagine that we shall send forward any definite suggestion. The Council strongly expressed the view that a good deal more ought to be done for the Cadet Force than is being done at present. It is generally admitted that the 6sTHE EARL OF DARTMOUTH
1136c" (cb(ba" (a
c" (cb(ba" (a"This Conference, believing that the liquor traffic is a trade in respect of which the people as a whole must assert free and unfettered power, in accordance with local opinion, demands for this purpose that the localities should have conferred upon them facilities:—
c" (cb(ba" (a
c" (cb(ba" (a1135The Times1134Observer11331132"After fourteen years' experience in these London slums it is not possible to face the Day of Judgment without protesting against the drink. If Christian England only knew what is going on in the slums she would rise with one consent and put it down. Only to hear young girls shouting in the streets at night going home drunk! Only to see starved little children waiting for the public-houses to close and their drunken mothers to come home! To have twenty-nine public-houses in your area with the low atmosphere and degrading moral influence, no matter what we try to do! It is most unfair that any party should hang this thing round the neck of Young England."1131" Whenever, in short, there is a definite damage or definite risk of damage, either to an individual
1131" As soon as any part of a person's conduct affects prejudicially the interests of others, society has jurisdiction over it, and the question whether the general welfare will or will not be promoted by interfering with it becomes open to discussion.": My Lords, as chairman of the chief temperance society of the Church of England, I think I ought to say a few words on this Bill, although I can only support it in rather a half-hearted way. I listened, as we all did, with the greatest interest to the Lord Chancellor's speech, but I should like to remind him, if it is not impertinent, of Mill on "Liberty"—one of the greatest authorities on liberty that any one can quote. He says:—
1136c" (cb(ba" (a
c" (cb(ba" (a"This Conference, believing that the liquor traffic is a trade in respect of which the people as a whole must assert free and unfettered power, in accordance with local opinion, demands for this purpose that the localities should have conferred upon them facilities:—
c" (cb(ba" (a
c" (cb(ba" (a1135The Times1134Observer11331132"After fourteen years' experience in these London slums it is not possible to face the Day of Judgment without protesting against the drink. If Christian England only knew what is going on in the slums she would rise with one consent and put it down. Only to hear young girls shouting in the streets at night going home drunk! Only to see starved little children waiting for the public-houses to close and their drunken mothers to come home! To have twenty-nine public-houses in your area with the low atmosphere and degrading moral influence, no matter what we try to do! It is most unfair that any party should hang this thing round the neck of Young England."1131" Whenever, in short, there is a definite damage or definite risk of damage, either to an individual
1131" As soon as any part of a person's conduct affects prejudicially the interests of others, society has jurisdiction over it, and the question whether the general welfare will or will not be promoted by interfering with it becomes open to discussion."THE LORD BISHOP OF LONDON
1158115711561155: My Lords, perhaps I ought to apologise for intervening in this debate, but I should like to say a few words. The Bill is one which concerns Scotland and the Churches of Scotland. Very obviously, I am not a member of any section of the Presbyterian Church in Scotland. My predecessors of a long time ago, and the predecessors of those divines who are promoting this measure, were distinctly at variance, and said very unkind things about one another a few centuries ago. That is perhaps putting it mildly, but I believe, and I always have believed, that the depth of that divergence was considerably exaggerated, and that some of it was due to accidental rather than to necessary incidents in the history of the sixteenth century. John Knox was offered the Bishopric of Rochester. After a considerable interval I accepted that Bishopric. I have sometimes wondered what would have been the history of the two countries if John Knox had accepted the Bishopric of Rochester. Whether the conditions which prevailed when I was consecrated to the office would have been precisely what they are I leave to others to conjecture.1158115711561155THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
111311121111111011091108"There has grown up a claim for an equitable consideration which the State ought not and cannot ignore."1107: My Lords, I owe your Lordships an apology for having been slightly out of order in some of my remarks the other day. I do not propose to repeat the arguments I used; or deal with the aspect of the question to which I referred, on the previous occasion. I am going to assume that every one is agreed that there is a drink problem. People differ as to its extent and as to the way it should be tackled. It is easy to exaggerate it, but every one must be agreed that there is a drink problem; that is, that the national efficiency: to some extent is impaired by an unwise and excessive consumption of alcohol.111311121111111011091108"There has grown up a claim for an equitable consideration which the State ought not and cannot ignore."1107VISCOUNT ASTOR
11261125112411231122: My Lords, I cannot help expressing some regret that the noble and learned Viscount has been so completely converted by his experience during the last few years from that sympathy which I thought he at one time exhibited in relation to this matter. I listened with great interest and admiration—an admiration which we must all feel—to his eloquence, and to his denunciation of anything in the shape of State management or State control. I am bound to say
11261125112411231122VISCOUNT MILNER
1121caveat1120The warmest welcome, at an inn."May sigh to think he still has foundWhere'er his stages may have been," Whoe'er has frayed life's chill round.1119principiis obsta111811171116ba11151114: My Lords, the noble Lord who spoke on behalf of the Government a few days ago indicated with complete clearness the general attitude of the Government. They have, and they must undertake, responsibility for their own proposals, and they must be regarded, as a Government, as disinterested observers of the proposals which the noble Viscount has supported and the right rev. Prelate has introduced. I will make a few observations, which I will divide under two heads; and in making these observations, on a. subject in which I have long taken a deep interest, I make it plain that I speak for myself and myself alone, as I ant entitled to do upon a social proposal which is not accepted by the Government, and in relation to which alternative proposals are actually under contemplation, which have the authority of the Government as a whole.1121caveat1120The warmest welcome, at an inn."May sigh to think he still has foundWhere'er his stages may have been," Whoe'er has frayed life's chill round.1119principiis obsta111811171116ba11151114THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
1148"Subject to the recognition of the matters dealt with in the Declaratory Articles as matters spiritual, nothing in this Act contained shall affect or prejudice the jurisdiction of the civil courts in relation to any matter of a civil nature,""Nothing contained in this Act or in any other Act affecting the Church of Scotland shall prejudice the recognition of any other Church in Scotland as a Christian Church protected by law in the exercise of its spiritual functions."" The Declaratory Articles are lawful Articles, and the constitution of the Church of Scotland in matters spiritual is as therein set forth,"11471146114511441143114211411140: My Lords, I regret very much that the important discussion which has taken place has somewhat delayed the Motion for the Second Reading of this Bill, which is to effect the union of the Scottish Churches. Since I occupied my present position I have not had placed in my hands a task in respect of which I have felt an equal degree of responsibility. It is not long ago, about a month, since I happened to find myself in Edinburgh on the occasion of the meeting of the National Assembly, and I had some discussion with our late friend and colleague, Lord Balfour of Burleigh, on the subject of this Bill. I cherish the melancholy pleasure of remembering that he was good enough to express to me his satisfaction that I was charged with the fortunes of these proposals in this House.1148"Subject to the recognition of the matters dealt with in the Declaratory Articles as matters spiritual, nothing in this Act contained shall affect or prejudice the jurisdiction of the civil courts in relation to any matter of a civil nature,""Nothing contained in this Act or in any other Act affecting the Church of Scotland shall prejudice the recognition of any other Church in Scotland as a Christian Church protected by law in the exercise of its spiritual functions."" The Declaratory Articles are lawful Articles, and the constitution of the Church of Scotland in matters spiritual is as therein set forth,"11471146114511441143114211411140THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: The noble and learned Lord will recall that most of the instances of Government activity under which we have been labouring for the last two years were inherited from the time when both he and I were responsible.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1166: My Lords, this Bill can be described in a very few words. The purport of it is that lighters, barges, and like vessels navigating in Great Britain are under certain circumstances and in certain ways to be ranked as ships; that is to say, that under the Merchant Shipping Act they should be registered, and the limitations On the owner be the same as for ships. The reason is that in many cases these vessels are now really as large as ships, and have been increasing from year to year. The Bill applies to vessels of this character in tidal waters and in harbours, and it goes on to describe what an owner is, and to adopt the system of registration in ports and other districts where there is measurement or registration, in substantial agreement with the provisions of the Merchant Shipping Acts. By Clause 2 the owner is made responsible in cases where the hull or equipment is defective, or, by reason of overloading, improper loading or under-manning, the vessel is rendered unsafe for human life; and it preserves to workmen the right to sue in respect of loss of life or personal injury caused to any person carried in the lighter, barge, or like vessel.1166Loan ASKWITH
1168: Before the noble Lord addresses the House on behalf of the Government, I should like to say that Lord Inchcape has raised what is quite a new point in regard to this Bill, and perhaps I might explain the position which it occupies in the matter. Venereal disease has very little to do with barges and lighters, and although it may be cognate in so far as it comes under the Merchant Shipping Acts it has not very much to do with the principle of this Bill. Personally, I shall be only too glad to support my noble friend almost enthusiastically in the very important clause which he proposes to bring forward in Committee. But if the Bill goes down to the House of Commons with this additional clause in it, without having. been made a Government Bill, I am told that it will be lost, in all probability, and that both his proposal and mine will be likewise wrecked. If the Bill is turned into a Government Bill the whole position is altered, and supposing the Ministry of Health and the Board of Trade, the two Departments which my noble friend cited as supporting his proposal, desire it, they may be able to get it through the House of Commons, through which my Bill has already passed, without allowing it to participate in the massacre of the innocents. As I have said, I think Lord Inchcape's proposal is most important for the shipping
1168LORD ASKWITH
: On behalf of my noble friend, Lord Somerleyton, I should like to say that the Government have no objection to the passage of the Bill into law. In its present form they look upon it as equitable and not controversial. The Board of Trade fully sympathises with the Amendment proposed by Lord Inchcape, but I am inclined to agree with Lord Askwith in thinking that to press it would endanger the passage of the Bill.LORD STANMORE
: My Lords, before the House adjourns I should like to state in reply to a question put by the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury, at the conclusion of business last Thursday, that it is the intention of the Government to take the Second Reading of the Housing (Scotland) (No. 2) Bill on Thursday next.LORD STANMORE
1167: My Lords, I hope the noble Lord who is in charge of this Bill will be kind enough to enable us to avail ourselves of the opportunity which arises from the amendment of the Merchant Shipping Act of 1906 to introduce a few words dealing with venereal disease. Otherwise the matter would have to be dealt with by a separate Bill, which would take Parliamentary time. I have no wish to do anything to jeopardise Lord Askwith's Bill with which I entirely agree. But it is of the highest importance that in the necessarily restricted area of a ship every opportunity should be given to isolate and cure those members of the crew who may have contracted venereal disease, Human nature being what it is, seamen and those who go down to the sea in ships away from home—lusty young men very often—nad visit foreign countries are peculiarly table to contract disease. There is an old sea saying: "Any port in a storm," and I am afraid it holds good to-day.1167LORD INCHCAPE
11381137: My Lords, I know that the House is anxious to proceed to another Bill in which it takes great interest, and I will detain your Lordships for one or two moments only. I notice in the first place, as Lord Astor has reminded the House, that Wales is excluded from the operation of this Bill. I take that as an indication that the framers of the Bill recognise that the situation in Wales regarding licensing is different from that which prevails in England, and that the case of Wales demands and deserves special treatment and special legislation. I can only, in a sentence, express my personal hope that the day is not very far distant when an opportunity will be afforded of granting to the people of Wales the right of settling their licensing question in their own way.11381137LORD CLWYD
1165: My Lords, I feel sure that at this period of the evening I shall best consult your Lordships' convenience if I do not make any speech upon this Bill. Just as your Lordships have been dealing this evening with the largest questions it is possible for the human mind to comprehend, so now this proposition is,
1165LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
115411531152115111501149: My Lords, some of us who sit upon this side of the House are keenly interested in the fortunes of this Bill, and it is right that we should say something at least of the reasons for which we support it. The noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack has made a very lucid exposition of the substance of the Bill, into which I do not propose to follow him. He has shown that he has mastered the spirit in which this Bill is brought forward. In his speech the Lord Chancellor referred to Lord Balfour of Burleigh, and I cannot pass the moment by without saying how tragic it is to me that Lord Balfour should not be here to support this Bill. His whole soul was in it. The other day the most rev. Primate, in what he said about Lord Balfour, touched the true note, the true distinctive feature of the individuality of the man. In his simple way, with his unspeculative mind, he was a profoundly religious man, and the practical side of that religion was in no way more exemplified than in his earnestness about the future of the Church to which he had devoted and consecrated so much of his life.115411531152115111501149VISCOUNT HALDANE
1159: My Lords, as one closely connected with Scotland, I should like to say a few words on this Bill. I desire in the first place to express the gratitude which I am certain that every one connected with Scotland feels to the most rev. Primate for the kind and sympathetic words he has used with regard to this measure. The most rev. Primate touched upon one feature in Scottish ecclesiastical life which is noteworthy. It was embodied in one sentence of Thomas Carlyle when he said that in Scotland all dissent is merely stricter adherence to the National Kirk on all points. The whole ecclesiastical history of Scotland is an illustration of the truth of that pregnant sentence. Every schism that has taken place in Scotland has taken place, not because its authors departed from the doctrine of the National Church, but because they thought that the majority of the day were not carrying out these doctrines or the ecclesiastical policy which flowed from them with sufficient strictness. If that be so, it surely gives us good ground to hope that at last we are not merely within sight of union, but that we shall very shortly see it achieved. What Scotland desires is a National Church, and we trust we shall see that National Church built upon foundations which will last.1159VISCOUNT FINLAY
116211611160: There are, of course, exceptions, and my noble and learned friend is, I am sure, one of them. At the same time, one has sometimes been struck by the considerable amount of ignorance with which the subject has been viewed in Scotland. The doctrine is simply this: that the Church, in its own province, is supreme, and that that ought to be admitted by the State. It is not that the Church asks, or ever has asked, the State to confer upon it spiritual independence. The State has not that to give. What the State is asked to do is to recognise that the Church has it from another and higher Source. The State, as it has always been held by Scottish Churchmen, ought not to interfere in sacred matters. The Church Courts should be supreme in their own province in dealing with sacred matters.116211611160VISCOUNT FINLAY
1139: My Lords, before voting for the proposals before your Lordships' House I should like very briefly to make one or two observations, especially in regard to Part II, which is by far the most important part of the Bill. As to local option, it is perhaps safe to say that if it does little harm it will not do very much good. The best security for the conduct of the liquor trade is a strong, independent, representative licensing authority. As regards Part II it raises the question of the elimination of the element of private profit in the retail trade, which has been adopted in more than one country. It has probably been brought home to most of those who have studied the subject that the monopoly held by the State is a dangerous form of control. One of the great wonders of administration was seen when the late Czar was able to put an end to the enormous liquor revenue drawn by Russia from the monopoly possessed by the State.1139VISCOUNT NOVAR
1130: The noble and learned Viscount will forgive me for saying that I have heard that argument from him on nearly every occasion that I have made a speech in this House, and it never carries the least conviction, and for this reason, that when he and I had the pleasure (which I am afraid will not be renewed) of serving together in the same Government the country was at war, and that has no relation whatever to what has happened during the time when the noble and learned Viscount, unassisted by my society and my guidance, has been a member of the Government which has continued into the
1130LORD BUCKMASTER
112911281127: My Lords, I never interfere in a debate upon temperance without an uneasy feeling, born of a long
112911281127LORD BUCKMASTER
: No.LORD PARMOOR
"recognises the obligation to seek and promote union with other Churches in which it finds the Word to be purely preached.".11641163: My Lords, I desire to say one or two words only in hearty commendation of this Bill, because I am sure it will have the hearty support and approval of the lay element in the Anglican Church. I want to ask your Lordships' attention to the extreme similarity between that which the Church of Scotland is desiring in this Bill, and that which the Anglican Church attained in what was known as the Enabling Act. For at least 25 years I have been cognisant of all the steps that the late Lord Balfour of Burleigh took in order that a Bill of this kind might finally be developed, and he, at the same time, gave cordial assistance in the attempts which were made to pass a similar Bill for the Anglican Church. I make that statement because I agree with the noble Viscount that the whole basis of this Bill is to preserve spiritual independence in an Established Church. That was exactly the effort and desire of all Anglican Churchmen ire supporting what is known as the Enabling Act. Something like twelve years ago I brought forward a Motion myself at one of our great
"recognises the obligation to seek and promote union with other Churches in which it finds the Word to be purely preached.".11641163LORD PARMOOR
: The money is not for development and building, but for carrying on.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
11791178: At any rate, a quartet of a million of money stands for schemes which have already been approved by the Distribution Committee of King Edward's Fund, and for which money is now required. I wish to revert to the point that, a good deal of this money might not be required if you were able to put the Poor Law infirmaries in their proper place as part of the general system of medical relief, not only in London but elsewhere. As a matter of fact, there are 90,000 beds in the Poor Law infirmaries of the country, and there are 20,000 in London alone. I do not wish to say anything to the detriment of their administration, but it is known that they are disqualified at present, for many reasons, from doing all the work which must be done, in accordance with
11791178VISCOUNT BURNHAM
118311821181liaison1180: My Lords, the question which the noble Viscount has put down on the Paper asks, in the first place, whether His Majesty's Government have fully considered the Report of the Committee of the noble Viscount, Lord Cave. I can only reply to him that His Majesty's Government have given that Report the fullest consideration. I should like to take this opportunity to express to the noble Viscount, and to the noble Marquess opposite (the Marquess of Linlithgow), his colleague on the Committee, the great appreciation which the Government feel for the admirable work which that Committee performed, and for the useful and valuable suggestions which the noble Viscount embodied in his Report. I may say that that appreciation is fully shared by the voluntary hospitals of the country. The British Medical Association, at present in session at the 89th annual congress at Newcastle, endorsed the principal finding of that Report—namely, that the voluntary system should be maintained. In that view, I need hardly say, the Government, most cordially agree.118311821181liaison1180THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: Is that outside the Poor Law?VISCOUNT BURNHAM
1184: All the beds; there are 92,000 beds in the Poor Law infirmaries, but they are not all in separate infirmaries, Many of them are attached to workhouses. Of the total number of beds an average of 20,000 are vacant during the winter and 30,000 during the summer. I should like to give your Lordships the figures of the beds which exist in the separate infirmaries. There are 36,607 beds in separate infirmaries and on January 1 last, 9,150 of those beds were vacant. Of course, I do not know that those arc suitable beds there may he reasons why they are not actually suitable for the reception of patients. It may be they are in districts where the hospital accommodation is already sufficient and there are other reasons which have to be considered. At any rate they are there. as the noble Viscount points out, and it is quite possible that the accommodation in the infirmaries may be of very great value and assistance in relieving the hospitals.1184THE EARL OF ONSLOW
1185: My Lords, as one connected nearly all my life with the three Central Funds for Hospitals in London perhaps I may be allowed to say one word in regard to what has fallen from my noble friend, Lord Onslow, in his thanks to Lord Cave's Committee for the action they have taken and for the Report they have brought forward. In so doing I do not speak with any authority from King Edward's Hospital Fund, to which allusion has been made today, but on behalf of the three Central Funds, the King's Fund, the Sunday Fund, and the Saturday Fund, and also from what. I myself have seen of the Central Hospital Council and of the representative members of the London hospitals who have been meeting constantly in the last few days. I am sure they are highly pleased and delighted with the splendid Report which has been submitted.1185LORD SOMERLEYTON
11901189118811871186: My Lords, those of us who have had the pleasure of reading the Report of the Committee on the hospitals, as comprehensive as any report could be, must have been struck with the fact that the members of that Committee were firmly imbued with the necessity for economy, and that they were led to recommend the sums they did by their conviction of the urgent necessity of the hospitals. When, therefore, their first recommendation of £1,000,000 is reduced by half, we all realise that the Government have only made that reduction under the cogent pressure of financial difficulties.But in view of the fact that the money is reduced by half, I think this question arises —Would it not be wise to reconsider the basis of its distribution? I put that as a question worthy of consideration. If one takes, roughly, the number of hospitals which should be helped, and puts side by side with them the money available, it will be seen that the sum, when distributed and divided, amounts to very little in an individual case. I would, therefore, suggest that possibly it would be better to reconsider the method of distribution.11901189118811871186LORD DAWSON OF PENN
11921191: My Lords, I do not know whether it would be agreeable to the House that I should say a few words upon the points raised. Before doing so, I should like to acknowledge, in a few words, the manner in which His Majesty's Government have accepted the Report of the Committee over which I had the honour to preside. It is a source of great satisfaction to all of us that, apart from the question of funds, to which reference has been made, the Government have in the main accepted the recommendations which were put forward, and, especially, that they have appointed the Hospitals Commission over which the noble Earl has consented to preside.11921191VISCOUNT CAVE
1197119611951194: My Lords, I have given the noble Marquess who leads the House notice that I should put a Question to him at the beginning of business to-day, concerning the business of the House during the next few weeks, and, indeed, until the close of the session. As the noble Marquess very well knows, and as we all know, it is just about this time of the year that Questions of this kind frequently come to be put from the Opposition side of your Lordships' House, and I hope that on this occasion the noble Marquess will be able to give us a full and categorical reply. As we are all aware, there are several measures of great importance—measures which will demand, and as I believe will receive, full consideration in your Lordships' House—but the precise time of their advent here we do not know.1197119611951194THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Thanks to the courtesy of the noble Marquess, who very kindly provided me with some figures.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My argument was that it was quite certain, either way, that there would have to be a meeting of Parliament.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Could the noble Lord say how much of those exports went to British possessions and how much to foreign countries?LORD CLINTON 
pro forma1217: I am sorry I cannot do that, because, of course, I have only the figures from the 'Trade and Navigation Returns; I have not had time to get particulars from the Customs. Besides that, there is a large export trade in bran, pollards and other kinds of feeding stuffs. For the first six months of 1921 that trade amounted to 560,000 cwts., against only 63,000 cwts. for 1920. Such a trade as
pro forma1217LORD EMMOTT 
: My Lords, it would, I think, be convenient at this stage if I stated that the Ministry offer no objection to this Amendment. But they consider that the Amendment should be moved differently and they propose that it should run: "In the case of corn sold or contracted to be sold for export from the United Kingdom." I understand that the word "re-exported" as suggested by Lord Emmott is not required and that the validity of the contract should be determined at the time the contract is made and should not depend on what may or may not happen afterwards. Of course, if a man in this country buys corn for export from another person in this country, and says it is for export at the time, and later on does not like his bargain, he might be able to get out of it by saying that owing to a railway strike, or the country having gone to war, or some other reason, he is unable to buy the corn for export and therefore cries off his bargain. I am advised therefore that the Amendment should be in the form which I have suggested, and if the noble Lord would so move it the Ministry would be pleased to accept it.The PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY of the MINISTRY of AGRICULTURE and FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: So far as I can follow, I that is an improvement. 1 do not quite know why the words "in the case of" are used instead of my words "for or relating to; but I have no objection to them, and I am willing to move the Amendment in that form.LORD EMMOTT 
1219: My Lords, I believe that the Amendment moved by the noble Lord, in so far at it relates to the re-export of corn, is unnecessary, because we understand that it is already covered by subsection (2) of Clause 1. If it is desired to make that more certain by the new Amendment, then there is no objection. The question of exports is very much more important, because it refers to corn grown or flour milled in this country. The whole object of the measure is to bring about some uniformity in the weights and measures by which corn is sold, and it is clear that the confusion will remain to some extent if purchases continue to be made by different weights and measures. Apart from the danger which I foresee to uniformity—a thing which I do not want to lose—there is another which has been alluded to by the noble Earl, Lord Ancaster. A purchaser may buy torn nominally for export. He may not export it, and the unfortunate farmer or miller will no longer be able to fulfill his contract or to obtain the money value for it. I believe that the Amendment which has been proposed to the noble Lord's amendment will to a certain extent meet that point. I ant not, clear as to how far it will meet it, but it is intended to meet it, and from my point of view it is an improvement.1219LORD CLINTON 
dsdsds dsdsdsss1220moved to leave out "flour." The noble Lord said: My Lords, the next Amendment is for the elimination of the word "flour." The ordinary sack of flour, as stated, is 280 lbs. That happens to be 2½ cwts. Flour is sold by weight, but not in cwts. The reasons for this Amendment are these. The American and Canadian importer of flour will not be affected by this Bill, and he will, to a certain extent, be in a favourable position as compared with the English miller. This trade has always been done in shillings and pence per sack. To convert the price to price per cwt. could only
dsdsds dsdsdsss1220LORD EMMOTT
: My Lords, the ordinary measures in which flour is used fit in perfectly well with the cwt., which we propose should be used in future, and I am not in the least frightened by the difficulties in calculating prices. We shall soon begin to think in terms of the cwt. rather than in the terms of the sack. I am certain that this is not a matter which should weight strongly with your Lordships, but I agree that the question of selling flour is not really an agricultural subject, and for that reason I do not propose to oppose the Amendment.LORD CLINTON 
: May I say that so far as I am concerned I will use my best endeavours with my right hon. friend, Mr. Baldwin, to give facilities to this Bill later on?THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: My Lords, this Bill provides that the residence of a person in any premises shall not be deemed to have been interrupted for the purposes of the Representation of the People Acts, 1918 to 1920, by reason only of the fact that that person has been absent from the premise during part of the qualifying period, not exceeding four months at any one time, in the performance of any duty, arising from or incidental to any office, service or employment held or undertaken by him.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion which stands in my name in regard to these Bills.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY of THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
1211: My Lords, my noble friend has asked me to add one word, and I desire to make it, quite plain that everybody must be conscious of the unreasonableness of protracting, at this period of the year, our discussions, if it be in truth the fact that it will be necessary for us, after all, to resume in the autumn. Your Lordships will accept it from me that there was, and as far as I know there is still, a sincere desire to avoid an autumn sitting. There still is, I believe, in the minds of the majority of my colleagues, a belief that it will be found possible to avoid an autumn sitting. We shall know, I think, more about that in the course of the next few days, but certainly those of us here representing the Government will be very careful to make it plain to our colleagues that there is a strong feeling in this House that if, after all, probability points in the direction of an autumn sitting, we should not be asked to continue our deliberations for a day longer than the imperious considerations of public convenience and advantage require.1211THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: I was not doing an injustice to the noble Marquess's argument. I was setting aside the second contingency, and I was dealing only with the first. I was saying that in the event of these negotiations coming to a happy issue it is not unlikely that the assent of Parliament may be required to some form of legislation. In such a case as that, what I think His Majesty's Government would like to do would be to summon Parliament, if it is required for the purpose of carrying the requisite legislation and nothing else, and to separate as soon as possible. To postpone the whole of the legislation which is now before us until a later period of the autumn on the chance of that contingency arising, and then to overload us with the work that would, in that hypothesis, be placed upon us, really means that, instead of having a vacation at all for the many good reasons I have described, we should only go away in order to come back at a comparatively early stage in the autumn, and find ourselves sitting here until Christmas.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: It is an assumption that I am going to treat you like that.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: if your Lordships' House exhibited any desire to discuss that measure at length—though I hope it will not be for ten or twelve days—I certainly should have no desire to confine you to two or three days.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: I said as soon as possible afterwards. Decontrol is to take effect on August 15, and it is obvious that the longer the interval of postponement the greater the inconvenience will be. I do not say it is an absolute necessity.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: That is another Bill.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: I spoke of the Bill.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: Oh!THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: It is.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON 
12021201120011991198: It. was very gratifying to me to know that my speech should be made by the noble Marquess. It
12021201120011991198THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: My Lords, the
debate which has been initiated by the noble Marquess who leads the Opposition is one of a class with which we are only too painfully familiar in your Lordships' House in the dog days at the end of July, and which is not rendered more agreeable to those who have to take pint in it by the torrid rigours of the climate which we are undergoing at the present time. The noble Marquess, who has stated the case, as usual, with exemplary clearness, has divided his observations into two heads. Firstly, there was the Question which lie put as to the character of the business which is likely to come before your Lordships in the remaining weeks of the session, as now contemplated. And secondly, there is the larger question raised by him of the policy of autumn sessions in general and, still more, the desirability or; as he urged, the necessity—I think he used the word the indispensability—of having an autumn session in the current year.THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
12141213: My Lords, the Bill to which I ask your Lordships to give a Second Reading proposes to do two things. In the first place it proposes to put Scotland in precisely the same statutory position, so far as the terminal dates for the construction of ordinary subsidised houses arc concerned, as England. In the second place, it makes special provision
12141213LORD STANMORE 
1210: My Lords, I do
not think that I can add anything to what was said by the noble Marquess and those who followed him, but with regard to the Railways Bill the noble Marquess suggested that there should be an inquiry as to whether all those evils which were supposed to follow if it were not passed before a certain date, were really going to happen. If they are, I think we should concentrate our attention upon the Railways Bill, and do it thoroughly, because we must not run away with the idea that there is going to be no opposition to that Bill. Before I came into the House somebody approached me and pointed out that there would be very serious opposition to the Bill in Committee. It is a Bill which your Lordships will not allow to be forced, and ought not to be able to force, through the House without proper discussion.1210LORD SOUTHWARK
: I think the noble Marquess said there might be a Money Bill.LORD SOUTHWARK
1209: My Lords, this is a debate which, as has already been observed, is extremely familiar to this House, and any one with the smallest amount of imagination could without much difficulty have predicted, not only what was going to be said but who was going to say it. But this is a more unsatisfactory debate than usual, on account of the extremely scanty attendance. There is really nothing fresh to be said on this occasion, and I have nothing new to say myself. I merely rise to emphasise the remarks that fell from previous speakers. Under the present system of management, or of mismanagement, we already have, not one autumn session but two. The House of Commons is induced to sit every year until the middle or end of August, on the faith of some vague assurance that they will have sat long enough to make an autumn session unnecessary. What has invariably happened in recent years is that, although Parliament has sat until the beginning, at all events, and sometimes until the middle or the end, of August, an autumn session has nevertheless been necessary. That is precisely what we are likely to experience again this year. The noble Marquess the Leader of the House does not hold out any hope, or, at all events, he does not hold out much hope, that we shall have terminated our business before the end of August; and he himself admits that there is an extreme probability that we may be called upon to meet again at a later period in the autumn.1209LORD NEWTON 
: I think the noble Marquess said it ought to be through by August 15.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I am sure the noble Marquess will do it with the gentlest—MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
1206120512041203: My
Lords, I can assure the noble Marquess the Leader of the House that none of us will make up our minds with undue precipitation upon the matter to which he has referred. It is, of course, our wish and our
1206120512041203THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
1208: I do not think the noble Marquess spoke, if I may venture to say so, with absolute conviction. He spoke, as indeed he must have spoken, as one who has been told that that was roughly the case, and he has stated it to the House accordingly. I do think that before we are asked to permit what is practically the abrogation of the functions of your Lordships' House upon this very important Bill, there ought to be some means of satisfying us that these awful consequences which the noble Marquess foreshadowed will take place. Would it, upon inquiry, turn out to be the case that there would be administrative chaos; that there would be great loss of public money; that there would be great loss of the railway companies' money? If that is the case, I admit that it is a very strong position.1208THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY 
:Is it quite certain?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Is it quite certain that it would not, matter for a few weeks?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: That is the Safeguarding of Industries Bill. Yes, it is another Bill; there are lots more to come. If the noble Marquess says decontrol need not take place on August 15, or that at any rate it would not matter for the few days—THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill do now pass.LORD CLINTON
13"A peaceful Persia, a stable Persia, a friendly Persia, and an independent Persia are the corner stones of British policy.""those who succeed us will have to build on ruins, a completely devastated country, in the dead silence of a cemetery."règime1211: My Lords, the situation in Persia, as my noble friend has said, has very greatly changed since it was discussed by your Lordships' House on November 16 last. Then we had withdrawn our troops from Meshed; but General Ironside was still in occupation of Kazvin and out-post affairs with Bolsheviks were constantly taking place. The Cossack Division had become disintegrated, though efforts were being made to reorganise it with the assistance of British officers. The Anglo-Persian Agreement was, at that time, in suspense, but the noble Marquess told the House that he hoped that that very evasive body the Mejliss would be summoned and that the Agreement might still be ratified.13"A peaceful Persia, a stable Persia, a friendly Persia, and an independent Persia are the corner stones of British policy.""those who succeed us will have to build on ruins, a completely devastated country, in the dead silence of a cemetery."règime1211LORD SYDENHAM
19181716Manchester Guardian15"They—that is, the Persian Government—have our earnest sympathy in their endeavours, but it rests with them to determine the orbit in which Persia desires that she shall henceforward move. If they desire the faithful execution of the Anglo-Persian Agreement, they may rely upon us to complete our part; but if they prefer to pursue their own course, and to trust to their own resources, we cannot place any obstacle in their path. The responsibility will be theirs and not ours.""If, on the other hand, the Persian Parliament declines to accept the Agreement, the Persian Government must take its own course. We shall have done our best to help them, and, if they are unwilling to accept our assistance, the responsibility must be theirs.""If the Persian Parliament accepts the Agreement, subject to such modifications as I indicated a little while ago, we shall do our best to help them through."14r èsum è: My Lords, the series of questions which have been put to me by the noble Lord, Lord Lamington, supplemented, as they have been, by the query of the noble Lord, Lord Sydenham, are practically an invitation to me to give your Lordships some account of the present situation in Persia. Both noble Lords have alluded to the last occasion when we had a discussion on the matter in your Lordships' House—that was on November 16, 1920—and perhaps your Lordships will permit me for a moment to recall the point up to which I had taken the narrative of Persian events at that date. In the remarks I then made I gave a short 19181716Manchester Guardian15"They—that is, the Persian Government—have our earnest sympathy in their endeavours, but it rests with them to determine the orbit in which Persia desires that she shall henceforward move. If they desire the faithful execution of the Anglo-Persian Agreement, they may rely upon us to complete our part; but if they prefer to pursue their own course, and to trust to their own resources, we cannot place any obstacle in their path. The responsibility will be theirs and not ours.""If, on the other hand, the Persian Parliament declines to accept the Agreement, the Persian Government must take its own course. We shall have done our best to help them, and, if they are unwilling to accept our assistance, the responsibility must be theirs.""If the Persian Parliament accepts the Agreement, subject to such modifications as I indicated a little while ago, we shall do our best to help them through."14r èsum èTHE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
: My Lords, with your Lordships' permission, I should like to thank the noble Marquess the Leader of the House for his very complete, although very gloomy, picture. May I say that I was specially glad to hear his repudiation of the rumour that His Majesty's Government had been always indisposed to the summoning of the Mejliss. It was bruited about that this was the case, and I am very glad that he has given his denial on that particular point. I only say in conclusion that I hope the noble Marquess will not be discouraged. If, in the future, there is any chance of getting Persia on a better footing again, of making her independent and friendly to ourselves, I am sure he will be the one person in His Majesty's Government who will most endeavour to do so.LORD LAMINGTON
4: My Lords, I should per-
4THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: In those circumstances, I shall fail in with the noble Marquess's suggestion, if he thinks it will be for the convenience of the House. I can only say that, for my own part, I hope that noble Lords who intend to raise questions of great importance will give me notice of them as early as possible after the Second Reading, because my chief fear is that I shall be rather rushed between notice of Amendments and the Committee stage.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: My Lords, I beg to give notice that on the Motion for the Second Reading of the Bill, I shall move to leave out all words after "That" in order to insert "this House refuses its assent to a partial and lop-sided repeal of the Agriculture Act, 1920."LORD STRACHIE
2: My Lords, the noble Marquess has asked me how soon the Government hope to be in a position to make a statement with regard to Ireland. We both hope and expect to be in a
2THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: I have a drafting Amendment to move to this clause.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion standing in my name. I need not trouble your Lordships with the reason for this motion, beyond saying that a technical omission has been discovered in this Bill, the rectification of which makes this course necessary.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: My Lords, I should like to ask His Majesty's Government, if this is a convenient moment, on which day they propose to take the Second Reading of this Bill.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I beg to give notice that I shall repeat the Question to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
5: I quite understand the noble Earl's point of view, and I should like to thank him very much for the kind way in which he has received my Question. I think, from the opportunities I have had of consulting noble Lords interested in agriculture, that they think it would be altogether too soon to take the Second Reading the day after to-morrow, inasmuch as the Bill is not only not yet printed in this House, but has
5THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, I am sure your Lordships and the Government will understand the great anxiety with which all of us are waiting for some information as to what is going to happen in respect of Ireland, and I desire, therefore, to ask the noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack how soon he thinks he will be in a position to make a statement. If he says, as of course he has a right to say, that be requires rather longer notice, then I will repeat the Question to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion standing in my name with regard to these Bills. It is justified by the procedure of these two Bills through Parliament.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE)
282726: My Lords, desire to put to the noble Marquess who leads the House a Question of which I have given him Private Notice, as to whether he is able, especially in view of what was stated in another place yesterday about the course of public business, to give us in this House some further information on the subject. The Leader of the House in another place, as your Lordships will have seen from the newspapers, announced a list of measures, a long list, with which
282726THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
38: My Lords, I have no desire to prolong the debate upon the subject raised by the noble Marquess and replied to by the noble and learned Viscount. I merely desire to clear my own mind upon one matter which the reply of the noble and. learned Viscount seemed to me to place in a somewhat new aspect had understood that the negotiations which had taken place so far were strictly preliminary negotiations, in order to discover whether a basis existed upon which a detailed Conference could take place between His Majesty's Government and the representatives of Southern Ireland, with a view to arriving at a real agreement. From the noble and learned Viscount's speech it seemed as though matters had gone somewhat further—namely, that the Government had actually suggested definite terms which would be either accepted or refused by Mr. de Valera and his colleagues, and that the matter had therefore reached a far more advanced stage than most of us had been prepared to suppose. Judging by recollection of the statement that was made by Mr. de Valera, or on his behalf, I had certainly gained the impression that the negotiations had not gone further than the stage which I have indicated—namely, that there had been a general discussion on bases which would lead, if those bases were accepted, to further negotiations, which might occupy a considerable period of time. Perhaps the noble and learned Viscount will be able to tell me whether my reading of what he said is correct.38THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I am extremely obliged to the noble and learned Viscount. My only fear was that what he said might conceivably be taken—and he has explained wrongly taken—as though certain definite terms to take or leave had been presented to the representatives of Southern Ireland. I understand that is not the case.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
43"In making orders under Part II of the Safeguarding of Industries Bill it would be necessary to consider any Treaty provisions which may be
43: My Lords, the noble Earl's Question raises a matter of very great interest to many of the leading lights of the commercial world, which is so ably represented in your Lordships' House, and although the noble Earl has promised us a great deal of discussion on this matter, I hope that, so far as concerns the Question appearing on the Paper, the reply I can give will be, as far as possible, satisfactory to him.43"In making orders under Part II of the Safeguarding of Industries Bill it would be necessary to consider any Treaty provisions which may be
43LORD SOMERLEYTON
: I am much obliged to the noble Lord for giving me such a full answer. It is no doubt due to my own carelessness, but I could not quite follow what was said in regard to the denunciation of a Treaty by France. I understand it is in two sections. Have they also denounced the part which deals with Customs Duties?EARL BEAUCHAMP
: I shall be glad to explain that to the noble Earl afterwards, if I may.LORD SOMERLEYTON
50: My Lords, in reply to the noble Lord who has just spoken the present law with regard to advertisements is governed by the Advertisements Regulation Act of 1907, by which a local authority has power to make by-laws for the regulation and control of hoardings when they exceed 12 feet in height; and has power to regulate, or restrict, and prevent the exhibition of advertisements which injuriously affect the amenities of a public park or pleasure promenade, or destroy the natural beauty of the landscape. I imagine the authority is the county council, although I am not quite sure on that point.50THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: What bodies?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
5958: My Lords, I cannot help thinking that probably there
5958THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, I do not think it is convenient at this moment to make a statement of the kind which my noble and learned friend invites me to make. The requisite materials are being collected and prepared for early publication and, in my judgment, criticism would be more properly deferred until those materials can be fully considered. The noble and learned Lord's wishes as indicated in the Question are satisfied, I think, by the assurances I have given that there will be as full a publication of the requisite materials for the formation of a judgment as is really possible under the known circumstances of the case. I might be tempted to make some observations, not necessarily of a hostile character, upon certain parts of my noble friend's speech, but the matter is extremely delicate; it must at some future date engage the attention of the Supreme Council; and I think that, on the whole, the course I have indicated is the best.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
ex parte62: I am much obliged to the noble and learned. Viscount for the
ex parte62LORD PARMOOR
"Nothing shall be done by way either of legislation or administration which shall diminish or detract from the position of the English language as an official language, or done to restrict its use in education or in the public service."64"The English and Italian languages shall be recognised as equal languages of culture in Malta at the University, in secondary schools, and in the higher classes of elementary schools as subjects of study. Where both languages cannot conveniently be taken simultaneously, regard shall be had in settling the order of priority in which the languages shall be taught to the wishes of the parents in the case of schools, and of the students in the case of the University, and to the utility of the teaching for the purposes of the pupil's future occupation. The foregoing provisions shall not extend to prohibit the Maltese language from being used in the lower classes of the elementary schools in so far as it may be necessary as a medium of instruction.": My Lords, the provisions relating to the study of the English and Italian languages in Malta are to be found in Section 57 of the Letters Patent. Subsection (2) of that clause runs as follows—
"Nothing shall be done by way either of legislation or administration which shall diminish or detract from the position of the English language as an official language, or done to restrict its use in education or in the public service."64"The English and Italian languages shall be recognised as equal languages of culture in Malta at the University, in secondary schools, and in the higher classes of elementary schools as subjects of study. Where both languages cannot conveniently be taken simultaneously, regard shall be had in settling the order of priority in which the languages shall be taught to the wishes of the parents in the case of schools, and of the students in the case of the University, and to the utility of the teaching for the purposes of the pupil's future occupation. The foregoing provisions shall not extend to prohibit the Maltese language from being used in the lower classes of the elementary schools in so far as it may be necessary as a medium of instruction."THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: My Lords, the noble Lord is quite right. As there is now self-government in Malta, it is naturally assumed that the Maltese will deal with the matter in a sensible manner, but, as I mentioned in the last part of my reply, it can be dealt with by the Governor, who may make further provision under Section 67 of the Letters Patent by way of definition of the sections dealing with the language question, if necessity arises.THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
49: My Lords, I should like to ask the noble Earl who is to reply on behalf of the Government whether county councils at the present moment have not power to make by-laws in regard to matters of this kind. I believe that is
49LORD STRACHIE
39: My Lords, I take notice on behalf of His Majesty's Government of the intention which the noble Marquess had just conveyed to the House. With reference to the point made by Lord Crewe, the divergence, or the apparent divergence, indicated by him is,
39THE LORD CHANCELLOR
54quot homines, tot sententiae535251: My Lords, in reply to the invitation of the noble Lord —he and I discussed this matter together—I should like to make one or two brief observations. Most unfortunately I have not had the advantage of hearing the whole of the speech of Lord Askwith, as I was called away for another purpose, but I am generally aware of the purposes proposed by the mover and his friends. We must all agree generally with the formula laid down by the noble Earl, speaking on behalf of the Government, that in these matters advertisements which are plainly objectionable, not on moral grounds but on æsthetic grounds, should not receive encouragement, here or elsewhere. But there is another side to the question which ought not to be completely ignored. The whole developments of the modern business world show that the practice of advertising plays au ever larger part in the immensely
54quot homines, tot sententiae535251THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: That is not the case.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
373635: My Lords, the position is generally as follows. Some days ago, as the noble Marquess has indicated, summarised but, I hope, intelligible proposals were made by His Majesty's Government to the representatives of Southern Ireland, which it was hoped might serve as a basis for reconciliation and for peace. If those terms are accepted, it will, of course, be necessary to embody them in the form of an Act of Parliament, and it will be necessary for both Houses to discuss them in that form. It may be convenient and necessary to anticipate such discussion. The noble Marquess more than once in his speech puzzled me a little by saying that "we" feel that there is a great shame involved in these negotiations, and generally in the employment of denunciatory implications tacked upon the use of the first person plural. I do not know precisely whom the noble Marquess means to indicate when lie says"we "; but I make it very plain that, so far as I am concerned, and so far as all my Unionist colleagues, who formerly, at least, belonged to the same Party as the noble Marquess, are concerned, we are utterly unconscious of any shame in the discussions which we have undertaken or in the proposals which we have made.373635THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
46vice versa45: My Lords, I rise to move the Second Reading of this Bill. On June 24 last year a Bill on the same subject was introduced by the late Lord Balfour of Burleigh. This Bill is a descendant of that. It was prepared at the time when Lord Balfour passed away, and in other circumstances would have been brought before your Lordships' House by him. I have taken up the principles which he so earnestly and consistently supported, in order to bring the matter again before this House. At the time the Bill was brought forward last year and accorded a Second Reading by your Lordships, it was intimated by the Government that certain conferences were advisable with the Home Office upon a matter that was contained in the Bill. There have been discussions with an official of the Home Office, with a view to meeting the objections taken to the last Bill in regard to administrative grounds, and those who have prepared this Bill hope that they have now devised a measure which will be simple and effective.46vice versa45LORD ASKWITH
: I beg to thank the noble Duke for his reply, but I do not think he made it quite clear whether the two languages, which are not the natural language of the Maltese population, would have to be taken together. That is really the point I wished to make. I gather from the noble Duke that that point has not yet been quite settled, and that therefore we must trust to the good sense of the Maltese electors to settle it. Is that what the noble Duke wishes to say?LORD SYDENHAM
63: My Lords, I desire to ask whether His Majesty's Government realise that, students having received the right of priority of choice of language in education under the new Constitution of Malta, it would be an intolerable injustice to force such students as elect to take English to pass examinations in Italian as the only means of continuing their education.63LORD SYDENHAM
313029: My Lords, when the noble Marquess, with his usual courtesy, let me know this morning that he was going to ask a question about the course of
313029THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
5756: I will tell the noble Earl later. The reason for this opposition is obvious. The Bill not only deals with advertisements to be erected, but with those already erected. If the Bill passes, it will be within the power of the local authorities to compel commercial people to spend millions of money in removing advertisements, pulling down hoardings, and so forth. I do not follow the Lord Chancellor in what he said with regard to certain firms, but I notice that the big firms to which he adverted carry on business in the Liverpool district, which may perhaps explain the reference that he made to them. So far as we can ascertain, there is no demand for this measure.5756LORD RIDDELL
: My Lords, there is a very strong objection to this Bill on the part of the commercial classes. Resolutions against it have been passed by the London Chamber of Commerce and other commercial bodies—LORD RIDDELL
: That is exactly what I said. The noble Lord said that as large a quantity of a commodity would be sold without advertising as with it. That is not the opinion and the experience of the commercial classes. If you want to stimulate the sale of a commodity you must advertise it. I do not say that because I am in the advertising business. So far as the newspapers are concerned they would have everything to gain by suppressing these mural advertisements. But, so far as advertising generally is concerned, it needs a very bold man to say that you can sell the same quantity of commodities without advertising as with advertising. The commercial classes have their own views. They have passed their own resolutions and, while the noble Lord may have information which is not present to their minds, I am always in favour of believing that people know their own business best; and when a great commercial body like the London Chamber of Commerce passes a resolution such as they have passed, in a time like this, I am certainly not prepared to disregard it, or to take the noble Lord's advice in preference to that of the men who are engaged in carrying on the business and commerce of the country, upon which we all rely for our daily bread.LORD RIDDELL
: I think they would be sold by a different man, who did not advertise at all.LORD CHARNWOOD
55: My Lords, I am perfectly incompetent to follow the extremely pleasant speech to which we have just listened, but I would venture to suggest two questions with regard to the two main arguments used against this Bill. The noble and learned Viscount pictured the terrible difficulty that is likely to arise as to whether or not a particular advertisement is in good taste. Is it a very real difficulty that he is raising? We exercise taste in regard to sound and smell, two senses which are to be protected against very gross annoyances. I have known people who liked the smell of tallow. Nevertheless, there can be no doubt—it is not a delicate æsthetic question—that the smell of tallow is a nuisance to the neighbourhood in which it is emitted.55LORD CHARNWOOD
4847: My Lords, I hope this House will not give a Second Reading to this Bill. I desire, without going into much detail, to give your Lordships the opinions of business men and advertisers in regard to it. I will give their views in a somewhat condensed form, but sufficiently to enable your Lordships to get an idea of how averse business men are from this sort of interference with commerce. This Bill is a serious menace to the commercial interests of the country. An enormous amount of capital is involved, and if the Bill is passed a huge sum will be lost, for totally inadequate reasons. Millions of pounds are invested in advertisement sites, and in the machinery and plant which are used for producing advertisements, and this sum would be immediately jeopardised, and ultimately lost, if this Bill passed.4847LORD SOUTHWARK
: My Lords, I think that in the interests of the country the position of the Lord Chancellor, the Law Lords, the Attorney General and the Solicitor-General, should be considered in relation to this question. Are these distinguished and hard-working officials of the Government to be deprived of their long vacation? If there is any one who requires a rest I am sure it must be the Lord Chancellor, the Law Lords, and the Law Officers of the Government. Outside the question of the Railways Bill it has not been proved that there is any necessity for prolonging this session, and as the Committee which has considered the matter say that it is necessary to pass the Railways Bill, then let us concentrate the whole of our attention upon it and get away as quickly as we can. The observations which have been made this afternoon confirm me in that view. We shall be wasting time if we prolong the session unnecessarily.LORD SOUTHWARK
34: My Lords, in accordance with private notice I beg to ask the Lord Chancellor whether the Government are now able to make any statement as to the terms offered to Mr. de Valera, and if not, can they indicate how soon they will be in a position to make such a statement? Perhaps the House will allow me to explain in two sentences. Mr. de Valera had his first interview with the Prime Minister on July 14, and the final interview about a week ago. I had some reason to believe that the Government would be able to make a statement within a few clays of that event. But I judge from what passed in another place yesterday, and from what the noble Marquess the Leader of the House has said this afternoon, that there is no prospect of an answer from Mr. de Valera for several weeks.34THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, I ask the pardon of your Lordships for intruding again, only for a second, I do not want to pursue the matter any further for the present, beyond saying that we must all approach the subject with a feeling of the deepest responsibility, and therefore, in giving notice, as I do now, that on Wednesday next I shall call attention to the negotiations between His Majesty's Government and Mr. de Valera and move a Resolution, I desire to say that I should be anxious not to stand upon any ceremony in the matter, and that if representations were made to me, from any quarter of the House, on the subject, I should give those representations my most earnest consideration. But as at present advised, I propose to move that Resolution on Wednesday next.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
3332: My Lords, I have not always the pleasure of acting with the noble Marquess the Leader of the Opposition in regard to business of this House, but on this occasion I do most cordially agree with him. I am
3332THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion which stands in my name with reference to these Bills.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARYOF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: My Lords, I beg to move that the Commons Amendment be now considered.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, I beg to move that your Lordships agree with the Commons in the Amendment to the Lords Amendment. It is merely to delete the words not exceeding £50 a year," and will make it possible for the police to give a gratuity, instead of a pension, to a widow.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
72: My Lords, I propose to say only a few words upon the Question raised by my noble friend. This is no new form of question. It has been put to the Government on many occasions during the past two years, and I think it has often been regarded by them as an expression of some irrational sense of perverted ingratitude on the part of the members of the Opposition. The Government are constantly complaining that we, on this side of the House, do not sufficiently appreciate, and make allowance for, the difficulties in which they stand. Personally, I have always tried my very utmost to give full weight to that consideration, and my complaint is, and always has been, that it is not we who fail to understand the position in which the Government is placed, but that it is they who fail to understand it themselves. Had they understood what I think must have appeared obvious to many people two years ago, it is incredible that they could have embarked upon the extended schemes of ambitious bureaucratic Government which constitute the explanation for these buildings which my noble friend deplores.72LORD BUCKMASTER
: My Lords, I listened with some trepidation to the remarks of my noble and learned friend, that he has now changed his policy towards the Government, and is going to cease to be a critic and to become an advocate of a change of Government.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: It is not a change of my policy but a change of the policy of the House. I have always been against the present Government.LORD BUCKMASTER
77personnel7675Vide7473: At any rate, such an announcement is not a very unusual ambition to be expressed by a prominent member of the Opposition, and, clearly, I cannot complain of the announcement that he despairs of changing the
77personnel7675Vide7473THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Might I ask whether the 500,000 feet are on the ground floor?LORD BUCKMASTER
: I said superficial.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: But is it floor space? That is to say, taking the ground floor at so many feet, the first floor at so many feet, the second floor at so many feet, and the attics at so many feet.LORD BUCKMASTER
: It is all superficial feet.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I thought, in comparing it with this block, that the noble Earl meant the ground space. He is comparing two different things.LORD BUCKMASTER
: I beg the noble Lord's pardon.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: As I understand it, the noble Earl is comparing two different things. He is comparing the area of a series of floors, from the ground floor to the roof, with the ground area which is covered by a block of Government buildings contained within the boundaries which have just been referred to. They seem to be entirely different things.LORD BUCKMASTER
: If the noble and learned Lord will read my remarks to-morrow, he will see that there is no ambiguity in them. The Office of Works has surrendered 500,000 feet of rented and commandeered office accommodation in London and its neighbourhood since last winter. That is equivalent to twice the space—and when I say"space"I am talking about similar things, namely, superficial feet—of the block of buildings which is known as the new Government buildings.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: All the floors in those buildings?LORD BUCKMASTER
: Yes all the floors in those building.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: The ground measurement—LORD BUCKMASTER
débris79: I think I was quite clear; I am sure I was; I am clear now, in any case. This process is continuing, and now can - be applied, I think, pretty vigorously to the buildings which still occupy public spaces and parks.débris79THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
84bona fide: My Lords, my noble friend, the Leader of the House, has asked me to read on his behalf the reply which he has drawn up himself to Lord Cozens-Hardy's Question:84bona fideTILE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I do not quite understand the question of precedence to which the noble and learned Lord refers.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: We agree.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: It is simply this. There is a Motion down in the name of the Marquess of Crewe, and coupled with that there is a Motion that it should have precedence over the Corn Production Acts (Repeal) Bill. That is a matter for the House to determine, and I suggest that we should meet, therefore, at 3.45 on Tuesday.LORD BUCKMASTER
85: My Lords, a Motion has just been handed in by the Marquess of Crewe for Tuesday next which I am sure the Government will regard as one of great importance; and it is preluded by a Motion that precedence should be granted to it. On Tuesday the House will not be sitting for Judicial
85LORD BUCKMASTER
: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name. One Bill refers to Arundel, Berwick and Lancaster, and the other to Aberdeen, Ardrossan, Ayr, Inverness, Montrose and Stonehaven.LORD SOMERLEYTON
103102"I could not love thee, dear, so much, Loved I not honour more "—10110099"I am not quite sure that that heroic measure will be taken; in fact, I think I shall live a good many years without seeing your Lordships take that step.""I should like to see a strike of the House of Lords. I should like to see the House of Lords take its courage boldly in its right hand, and adjourn at the time it thought fit; and that it should come back in two or three months' time and discuss more at leisure the Bills sent up to it."9897: My Lords, the noble Marquess has observed that this is the third occasion in the last fortnight on which this subject has been discussed in your Lordships' House. Like him, I will refrain from repeating the arguments or observations which I made on the two previous occasions, although I note, in passing, that the noble Marquess did not refrain from a certain amount of good-humoured comment on the perhaps rather lighthearted observations in which I ventured to indulge on one of those occasions.103102"I could not love thee, dear, so much, Loved I not honour more "—10110099"I am not quite sure that that heroic measure will be taken; in fact, I think I shall live a good many years without seeing your Lordships take that step.""I should like to see a strike of the House of Lords. I should like to see the House of Lords take its courage boldly in its right hand, and adjourn at the time it thought fit; and that it should come back in two or three months' time and discuss more at leisure the Bills sent up to it."9897THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
: Perhaps I ought to explain that I was quoting some remarks made by Professor Hewins on a public occasion within the last ten days or so.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
105"They may, for example, have recourse either to enterprises subsidised, directed or controlled by the Governments themselves or to the grant of financial assistance for the encouragement of scientific and technical research and the development of national industries and resources; to Customs Duties or prohibitions of a temporary or permanent character; or to a combination of these different methods.""The Allies decide to take the necessary steps without delay to render themselves independent of the enemy countries in so far as regards the raw materials and manufactured articles essential to the normal development of their economic activities";104: I accept the noble Marquess's correction, but I was disposed to
105"They may, for example, have recourse either to enterprises subsidised, directed or controlled by the Governments themselves or to the grant of financial assistance for the encouragement of scientific and technical research and the development of national industries and resources; to Customs Duties or prohibitions of a temporary or permanent character; or to a combination of these different methods.""The Allies decide to take the necessary steps without delay to render themselves independent of the enemy countries in so far as regards the raw materials and manufactured articles essential to the normal development of their economic activities";104THE MARQUESS C U R Z O N OF KEDLESTON 
111110"Provided that this Resolution shall not apply to the Railways Bill, or to the further proceedings on any Bill entered on by general consent."109108107106: My Lords, I confess that I do not rise without a certain sense of embarrassment upon the present occasion, because of the two speeches which have preceded mine. Let me say, in the first place, that there is not one member of your Lordships' House, in whatever quarter he sits and to whatever Party he belongs, who does not entirely sympathise with the noble Marquess and his colleagues in their desire to have a holiday, not merely out of general humanity, but out of gratitude to them, for we all agree that they have worked most tremendously hard and are entitled to a holiday. Indeed, in my judgment, the sooner they get a holiday the better it will be for them and, I think, the better for the country.111110"Provided that this Resolution shall not apply to the Railways Bill, or to the further proceedings on any Bill entered on by general consent."109108107106THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
114"I confess to having acquired an automatic habit of looking to that institution [the House of Lords] as a means of keeping an endangered liberty or two. Just now it happens to be in its almost normal attitude of revolt against the Government. It is asked to do this year what it was required to do at the tail of the session of 1920—that is to say, let a mass of bad and almost undebated Bills swish through its portals."The Nation113112: My Lords, it probably will not have escaped observation that the attitude of His Majesty's Government to-day is somewhat different from that which was adopted on the last occasion when this Question was debated. The chief argument advanced against the Motion of the noble Marquess the Leader of the Opposition to-day is the urgent necessity of passing the Safeguarding of Industries Bill. I do not propose to offer any remarks upon that Bill, but it seems to me to be a somewhat surprising thing that, after we have dragged out an existence for something like sixty or seventy years under a Free Trade system, we are now suddenly told that the most important industries of the country may collapse within the next two or three months unless immediate action is taken.114"I confess to having acquired an automatic habit of looking to that institution [the House of Lords] as a means of keeping an endangered liberty or two. Just now it happens to be in its almost normal attitude of revolt against the Government. It is asked to do this year what it was required to do at the tail of the session of 1920—that is to say, let a mass of bad and almost undebated Bills swish through its portals."The Nation113112LORD NEWTON
117116115: My Lords, the terms of this Motion are simple; the issue that it raises is plain; and I certainly do not intend to occupy your time at any length in expatiating upon the expediency of it. It is a Motion directed to the remedy of an abuse which has, by common consent, been the subject of protest in this House for many sessions. The noble Marquess the Leader of the House has re-awakened the echoes of dead debates, and we can learn from them that, in language even more emphatic than any that has been used this afternoon, people on one side of the House and on the other have again and again used their influence to prevent the end of a session being so crowded with legislation that this House had not the adequate leisure to discuss the measures that were brought before its notice. Within the short time that I have had the honour of sitting in your Lordships' House these protests have been frequent, and I think that the ill-result is obvious. You have only to look at the second subject of business on to-day's Order Paper to discover that a Bill that was passed through this House at the very end of last session—passed through this House, as I believe, against the better judgment of many who voted for it—is now brought before you for repeal, after the country has suffered a loss of £20,000,000 through its having been passed into law.117116115LORD BUCKMASTER
: My Lords, I rose twice with the object of putting the Question, but further speeches were made in support of the Motion and it has been suggested that perhaps silence at this stage of the debate on the part of the Government may show some disrespect to those who have spoken, and might be misunderstood on other grounds. I recognise in the fullest manner the right of the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury, to make the protest he has to-night on behalf of the House of Lords as a body and the private members of your Lordships' House. The noble Marquess has never had responsibility for conducting business in the House of Lords.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: Oh, yes I have.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Not as Leader.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: No, indeed not.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: This is, after all, the responsibility of the Leader. Therefore, the noble Marquess has completely survived the charges which he has made against others. How far the noble Marquess would have survived them if he had happened to find himself leading this House in the three years which have elapsed since the. Armistice, your Lordships must judge, and it is quite useless for any person to dogmatise on it. I, as a member of the Government, am not conscious of the slightest feeling of surprise or resentment when the noble Marquess adopts the attitude he has in this debate. But I do confess, when I regard the noble Marquess, Lord Crewe, as the exponent of this Motion, and see him reinforced with every appearance of deep conviction by the impeccable rectitude of Lord Buckmaster, that I am astonished and conscious of some slight feeling of resentment.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: What session?LORD BUCKMASTER
119: The last two sessions of the Government of which the noble and learned Lord was a member.
119THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: It does not really matter, but I was not a member of the Government at the time.LORD BUCKMASTER
The NationThe Nation122121120: He was a member of the Government in the last session preceding the war. He is aware, no doubt, of the relative state of business as between the two Houses in the month of July, 1914; and the noble Marquess, of course, has a very vivid recollection of all these matters. I am not adopting this argument with the object of saying that one side is as bad as the other. I agree with the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury, that that is a very futile contention. I use this argument for this reason. It seems to me that in the circumstances in which the Government have carried on for the last ten years, probably for more than ten years, whatever Government is in power will find itself driven to come to the House of Lords at the end of a session with a larger number of measures for their consideration than is, in all the circumstances of the case, reasonable. I believe such is the pressure of public affairs that whatever Government takes the place of the present Government will find itself confronted with some of the inconveniences of this course. Therefore, I do not reject the argument which has been used, that the House may be well advised to take the course of making that protest which the House is asked to make, if, on the balance of convenience, you think that is the wiser course.The NationThe Nation122121120THE LORD CHANCELLOR
124: My Lords, I had not intended to say anything more, although the terms of my Motion permit me to reply, but the speech of the noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack compels me to add a few observations. That speech was evidently intended to wind up the debate with the fervid eloquence from the noble and learned Viscount with which we are so familiar. To the best of my ability I must say one or two words in reply to the noble and learned Viscount. The noble Viscount's speech, though so eloquent as I have stated, was in a way transparent. It was purely and simply an attempt to create prejudice. The noble Marquess who leads the House started on a similar line by devoting a considerable portion of his speech to what the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury, with great propriety, described as a Second Beading discourse on the Safeguarding of Industries Bill. The noble and learned Viscount has devoted at least an equal portion of his oration to that measure. But the introduction of that measure as a main topic of debate to-day only becomes relevant if the noble and learned Viscount is prepared to say that he does not believe what I have deliberately said, and what Lord Buckmaster has said.124THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
134133132131130129128: My Lords, I am sure you will readily understand that it is not an easy task for me to commend to your Lordships' acceptance a Bill which has for its purpose the reversal of a policy which you were asked to accept, and did accept, only some eight months ago. Though the task is naturally a difficult one, I cannot ask your indulgence on the ground that to me it is a painful one. It will be in your Lordships' recollection that, on every occasion when I had the opportunity, both by my voice and by my vote, I showed it was my opinion that it was a policy which could not be a permanent one. There were many who looked upon the Agriculture Bill, when it was first introduced into your Lordships' House, as a reasonable insurance for the corn growers against loss. The almost perpendicular fall in the price of corn which has occurred since that time, and, especially, in the price of oats, has turned that which might have been only a reasonable insurance premium into a huge subsidy, and we are faced with that difficulty at the present moment.134133132131130129128THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: I did not say I approved; I said it was with no great sorrow that I was here proposing the repeal.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
143"I am certain that one effect of the wages board has been the introduction of rigid hours which are quite unsuitable to farming. There is another point. The wages board is coercive. It relies on prosecutions.…You rely on coercion, inspection, espionage and police court prosecutions. If there is anything which is wanted in this country both in the factory and on the farm, it is good will, and you will never get good will on the farm so long as you rely upon coercion."142"The wages board was intended to mix minimum wages. In practice… it has fixed standard wages, rigid standard wages, applicable to all alike without any regard to questions of fitness or skill. That has had a fatal effect. The minimum wages are actually maximum but in addition the question of hours is introduced. When minimum wages become standard wages, you introduce the whole machinery of rigid factory hours on the farm. That is exactly what has happened.""We propose that there shall not be a guarantee of prices, if so it follows clearly from that that the wages board shall disappear at the same time."''That is to say, that if there are to be guaranteed prices, then and only then is there to be a wages board""The Prime Minister in first introducing the policy in February, 1917, said: Before I come to actual prices which we guarantee I was going to say that there are ten or three corollaries to a guarantee of prices. The first is that if the Government guarantees prices labor must also be guaranteed.' "141140"That That this Council reminds his Majesty's Government and the Agricultural Committee of the House of Coin nuns of the promise to farmers of complete economic freedom in the event of the withdrawal of the guarantees provided under Part I of the Agriculture Act and demands its fulfillment both in the letter and in the spirit. The Council further sees no reason to exclude England and Wales from the freedom proposed to be granted to Scotland in this connection.""We have made the wager hoard permanent. The wages hoard is not a popular body with farmers, but in my opinion it has done most excellent work."139: I have quoted enough, I think, to show the House that the noble Earl not only disliked Part I of the Act, but, that he 'would like to see the whole Act destroyed. There is one other point with which I desire to deal, because it is exercising the minds of agriculturists very much at present. I refer, of course, to the wages boards which the noble. Earl seemed to think would occupy a very large part of the discussion of this Bill in Committee. What happened on the Third
143"I am certain that one effect of the wages board has been the introduction of rigid hours which are quite unsuitable to farming. There is another point. The wages board is coercive. It relies on prosecutions.…You rely on coercion, inspection, espionage and police court prosecutions. If there is anything which is wanted in this country both in the factory and on the farm, it is good will, and you will never get good will on the farm so long as you rely upon coercion."142"The wages board was intended to mix minimum wages. In practice… it has fixed standard wages, rigid standard wages, applicable to all alike without any regard to questions of fitness or skill. That has had a fatal effect. The minimum wages are actually maximum but in addition the question of hours is introduced. When minimum wages become standard wages, you introduce the whole machinery of rigid factory hours on the farm. That is exactly what has happened.""We propose that there shall not be a guarantee of prices, if so it follows clearly from that that the wages board shall disappear at the same time."''That is to say, that if there are to be guaranteed prices, then and only then is there to be a wages board""The Prime Minister in first introducing the policy in February, 1917, said: Before I come to actual prices which we guarantee I was going to say that there are ten or three corollaries to a guarantee of prices. The first is that if the Government guarantees prices labor must also be guaranteed.' "141140"That That this Council reminds his Majesty's Government and the Agricultural Committee of the House of Coin nuns of the promise to farmers of complete economic freedom in the event of the withdrawal of the guarantees provided under Part I of the Agriculture Act and demands its fulfillment both in the letter and in the spirit. The Council further sees no reason to exclude England and Wales from the freedom proposed to be granted to Scotland in this connection.""We have made the wager hoard permanent. The wages hoard is not a popular body with farmers, but in my opinion it has done most excellent work."139LORD, STRACHIE
149148147146145volte face144: My Lords, as one of the most strenuous supporters in this House of the Corn Production Acts of 1917 and 1920, I cannot let this occasion pass without entering my strong protest against the repeal of their principal provisions, including the most important portions of the Act which we passed here less than a year ago. It would be elaborating the obvious to dwell on the extraordinary character of the whole procedure which the noble Lord who has just spoken has already sufficiently emphasized, on the phenomenal change of mind by which the very authors and principal supporters of the measure, passed here not much more than six months ago, have now become its executioners.149148147146145volte face144VISCOUNT MILNER
: My Lords, I beg to move the adjournment of this debate till Thursday next. There are many members of your Lordships' House still desirous of speaking on tie Second Reading, and we have not vet reached a stars; of business which makes it imperative for us to take the Committee stage of this Bill next Thursday. Therefore, I hope the Government will agree that the proposition is a reasonable one.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: My Lords, I confess I should be sorry if that Motion were pressed. May I remind your Lordships of this? We desired to put the Bill down for Second Reading last week, but at the request of many noble Lords opposite it was postponed until to-day. In postponing it my noble friend, Lord Ancaster, said that he hoped the Second Reading would be given on Tuesday because, our proposal being to take the Committee stage on Thursday—THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: You have lots of time.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
:—our proposal being to take the Committee stage on Thursday, he naturally desired to see as many Amendments as possible upon the Notice Paper. Having deferred to your Lordships' desires on Thursday afternoon last, the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury, and the noble Lord, Lord Buckmaster, asked that the Motion about in autumn session should again take precedence. We agreed, and the result is that we now reach a rather inconvenient moment in a very important Bill. If the Bill is postponed until Thursday, I am afraid the Committee stage must be postponed until next week. It is rumoured in the House, with what truth I do not know, that the projected debate oft Ireland to-morrow may be postponed. If that is so, would it not be better for your Lordships to finish the Second Reading of this Bill to-morrow, so that we could go on with the Committee stage on Thursday?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I do not mind that. It depends, of course, upon what is on the Order Paper for to-morrow.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: If the Irish debate is not taken, there is very little on the Order Paper for to-morrow. The Earl of Arran's Question about compensation for destruction of property in Ireland is postponed, I understand. Lord Newton has a Question about the Inter-Allied 'Military Commission which, he informs me, is not likely to take more than a few moments. Lord Dawson of Penn has a Motion on an interesting technical subject which, however, I do not think is likely to last very long. That is all there is on the Paper for to-morrow, apart front the Irish question and the stages of the Finance Bill.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Several noble Lords wish to speak on Lord Dawson of Penn's Motion.LORD PHILLIMORE
: I merely repeat that it would be much more convenient, in my opinion, if we could take the concluding stages of the Second Reacting of this Bill to-morrow.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
151: My Lords, I may take this opportunity of saying that in pursuance of an invitation which I threw out last week, when. I gave Notice of the debate about Ireland, to noble Lords sitting in all quarters of the House to make any representations they might wish to make to me in reference to that debate, I have received many representations, and it has been thought better that I should postpone the Irish debate which was down for to-morrow. I do so all the more readily because I shall have an opportunity within a very few hours of conferring on the subject with many of my political friends. In those circumstances, the Irish debate will not stand in the way of any arrangement which the noble Earl may make as regards the Second Reading of this Bill. I think it is only right to say that I happen to know that Lord Dawson lays great store upon his Motion, and it would not be fair, in his absence, if we assumed that it is not a substantial matter. I do not know how long it will take. I think perhaps I would suggest that the House might meet a little earlier to-morrow. I imagine that Lord Dawson's Motion will not take very
151THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Normally, we meet at a quarter to four o'clock tomorrow. I do not think it is much good meeting a quarter of an hour earlier.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I think the noble Earl is right, and that the House should meet at the usual time to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Lord Dawson has informed my noble friend, Lord Onslow, that he does not mean to move his Motion to-morrow.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Lord Dawson told me a short time ago—an hour ago—that he intended to move it, and he urged me to be here.LORD PHILLIMORE
: I have just had a conversation with Lord Dawson, and I understood from him that he intended to withdraw his Motion to-morrow for certain reasons. He has only just left the House; I think it was about ten minutes ago. He explained to me that certain noble Lords had promised to be here. Unfortunately, he is not here now, but I think I am correct in saying that the debate will not take place.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
153"Inasmuch as the only effect of the measure it to prolong for a period the operation of the existing Act of Parliament, the present position in relation to the constitutional rights of His Majesty': subjects remains unaltered.": My Lords, I de not propose to take a Division upon this Question, but I wish to call the attention of the House to the assurances given to us that this Measure does not contravene the undertaking given when the Church of England Assembly Act was passed, that nothing should be done to interfere with the civil rights of any of His Majesty's subjects I have before me a Report of the Ecclesiastical Committee to which the most rev Primate has referred, and in the last paragraph they say that they consider that—
153"Inasmuch as the only effect of the measure it to prolong for a period the operation of the existing Act of Parliament, the present position in relation to the constitutional rights of His Majesty': subjects remains unaltered."LORD SHEFFIELD
: No, no.LORD PHILLIMORE
: I comment upon this because this is not the first time the civil rights of the people of this country have been interfered with by action promoted by the new Church Council. The right of appointing Churchwardens was pre-eminently a right vested in all the ratepayers of the parish. A sort of compromise was arrived at in this Church body. First of all, they wanted to turn over the appointment of churchwardens entirely to the parish councils, but, as a compromise, they said: "Let us unite the parish council with the vestry, and let the joint body vote." That was a clear interference with the civil rights of the parishioners, as parishioners, and not as members of the Church of England. However, that was passed by this Ecclesiastical Committee which was supposed to safeguard the civil rights of the public, and now we have this instance, in which they extend for two years an interference with the civil rights of patrons, and tell us that it does not matter because it is only an extension of what was done by Act of Parliament. It is true it was done by an Act of Parliament, but if you want to extend a civil Act of Parliament you ought to extend it by another civil Act of Parliament, and not by this machinery. I have made my protest, and I shall not divide.LORD SHEFFIELD
: My Lords, I merely want to ask, purely as a matter of curiosity, "Why is not this an interference with civil rights?" I notice that the statement of the noble Lord that it did constitute such an interference was received with something like derision opposite.LORD BUCKMASTER
: No, it was a mistake. The protest was for a quite different reason to that indicated by the noble and learned Lord.LORD PHILLIMORE
: Then I imagine it will be accepted that it is a fact that this is an interference with a civil right—a civil right which may not be popular, but which undoubtedly exists. I am a little astonished to find that this Committee should have reported that no interference is effected when, in fact, you are, in the result, going to create for a new period of two years what is a distinct interference with a right which, whether it ought to exist or riot, is in fact existing and is protected by the law.LORD BUCKMASTER
: My noble and learned friend a little misunderstood the nature of the opposition that.I expressed to the noble Lord opposite. It is a mistake to say that legislation by the Church Assembly under the Assembly Act, is not to interfere with the civil rights of His Majesty's subjects. It must interfere, and does interfere for a time. What the Committee have a duty to do is to report whether or not it does interfere with the constitutional rights of any of His Majesty's subjects. It may interfere, but Parliament is to be told if it does interfere.LORD PHILLIMORE
: They say it does not.LORD BUCKMASTER
: That is, I think, a mistake in the Report—a very slight mistake. I was going to explain that I think it is a very slight and immaterial mistake in the Report of the Ecclesiastical Committee. In a sense it does interfere, but the very legislation contemplates that the Church Assembly may prolong an Act of Parliament, and this is only prolonging an Act of Parliament.LORD PHILLIMORE
: My Lords, in moving that the House do now adjourn, I beg to remind your Lordships that, the Judicial sittings having concluded, unless your Lordships otherwise determine, the meetings of the House will be at 3.45 p.m. for the remainder of the sittings.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion standing in my name with regard to these Bills.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OP HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
163: May I in a very few words support what has just been said? The present position of Hungary is one of extraordinary difficulty. She has got to reconstruct her whole national life after two-thirds of her territory and people have been taken from her, and I hope that nothing will be done by the Commission to make this extremely difficult task more severe. The decision of the Supreme Council to dismember Hungary was one of the most extraordinary things of which I know. Some day it may be explained, and we shall know what was behind this determination, but at present it is unintelligible. In the case of Hungary the principle of self-determination has been absolutely ignored. A strong and united Hungary would have been the strongest safeguard for the peace of Central Europe, and instead of that we have got a Hungary reduced to a fragment of her former size, and with a great part of her population
163LORD SYDENHAM
: My Lords, I daresay my noble friend, Lord Newton, will absolve me from the necessity of dealing with the question of Bulgaria, because it is not mentioned in the Question. I think he will realise also; as will Lord Sydenham, that this Question of the whole policy of reparation and of matters connected with the rectification of the boundaries of Hungary, and of the actions of the Supreme Council, are matters for the Foreign Office and the Leader of the House, and not for myself as representing, in this instance, the War Office. Further, my noble friend raised some point about four admirals going out. Of course, I cannot speak about those admirals, because I am only dealing with the question asked as to the Military Mission.THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
Military and Naval.LORD NEWTON
164: The noble Lord did not say so. In reply to the noble Lord's first Question, it is quite true that since August, 1919, an Allied Mission of generals, appointed by the Supreme Council, has been stationed in Hungary as military advisers of the Allied High Commissioners at Budapest and for the prevention of frontier incidents between the Hungarians and the Rumanians and Jugo-Slays. But the Allied Mission of generals at Budapest came to an end on the ratification of the Treaty of Trianon on July 26, 1921, so that, there was an end of the first phase, if
164VISCOUNT PEEL
165: How long is the International Military Commission likely to take over its work in Hungary? The noble Viscount referred to the Treaty of
165LORD LAMINGTON
: I am afraid I cannot answer the latter Question, and the answer to the first question must depend upon the rapidity with which they are able to proceed with the work.VISCOUNT PEEL
: It is gratifying to find that my noble friend does not guarantee that a British admiral is going to be sent to co-operate with the other admirals in the dismemberment of the four boats, and it is also gratifying to learn that the officers and non-commissioned officers are not to be accompanied by their wives, sisters, and female relatives. But the fact remains that a very large Mission is going to be sent out to do the work which ought to have been done, and has been done, during the last three years, and there is no getting away from the fact.LORD NEWTON
: Can the noble Viscount say whether this Mission will be concerned in any way with the boundary question?LORD SYDENHAM
: It will only deal, I think, with the carrying out of those particular provisions which I mentioned.VISCOUNT PEEL
167166: My Lords, I am not going to detain the House with any discussion of the terms of the Finance Bill, or with a review of the general financial condition of the country. It used to be the custom—and I think it was not a bad one—that the Budget for the year, though, of course, never discussed in detail in this House, was moved usually by the Leader of the House, and the Leader of the Opposition, or
167166THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I quite understand.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
188187ssssssdddss186hors de combat: My Lords, I think the noble Lord who has just sat down takes a much too gloomy view of what is going to occur. Naturally, when you suddenly upset an Act that has only been passed about six months ago it causes rather a shudder. I said in this House that in less than two years, no matter what Government was in power, Part I of the Act would go. It has gone in six months. I rejoice that it has gone, because I do not desire the agricultural labourer, neither do If desire myself as a landlord, to live on the charity of the taxpayers of this island—for that is what it really conies to, and nothing else. However you argue, that is the real position—that you get so much from the other taxpayers to help you out.188187ssssssdddss186hors de combatTHE EARL OF KIMBERLEY
200en bloc199198: My Lords, the noble Earl who represents the Ministry of Agriculture with such capacity has borne, as I think, with great good-humour, and not, perhaps, entirely without satisfaction, the comments that have been made upon the remarkable change in the policy of the Government since the Agriculture Act so recently became law. It clearly has not been one of the Government measures which have worn very well, and its partial repeal has met with a remarkable and an interesting variety of criticism Irma different parts of your Lordships' House. We were all, I think, impressed yesterday by the speech, at once so powerful and so ingenious, with which Lord Milner defended the system, for which he was, indeed, himself largely responsible, of permanently subsidising corn-growing in this country on national grounds. Both he and Lord Selborne naturally view with the deepest regret the complete reversal of that policy.200en bloc199198THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, I ask the leave of the House to introduce a Bill entitled Industrial Assurance Bill, and to move that it be read a first time.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
206: My Lords, in moving that this House do now
206THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: May I ask the noble Earl whether I am right in thinking that it is proposed to take tomorrow the Committee stage of the Bill which has just been read a second time?THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Yes, if you please.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: It is likely to occupy a full sitting I should think, and I suppose in the event of its not being finished in the afternoon the noble Earl will ask the House to meet on Friday to complete it.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: There are a large number of Amendments, but I understand that my noble friend, Lord Ancaster, has been in communication with a number of your Lordships who are putting down Amendments. It is no use Lord Bledisloe shaking his head. He has.PILE EARL OF CRAWFORD 
: And I believe has agreed with them.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Not all, evidently.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
207: Certainly not all, but all Amendments that will come forward are not necessarily contentious Amendments. I do not know if your
207THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I do not rely upon it. It is a hope, and no more. I move now that the House do adjourn, and, as the Judicial Sittings have come to an end, our normal hour of meeting will be 3.45 p.m.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: No, at a quarter to four.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: He may have selected some.LORD BLEDISLOE
ultra195impasse194193s192191sss190189: My Lords, I am sure you will have welcomed, as I welcomed, the refreshing breeze of optimism which has just come to us from the Norfolk broads, after listening to the speeches—and very earnest speeches they were—of Lord Milner on the one hand, and Lord Clinton on the other. I am sure the speech which Lord Kimberley has just delivered must do much to cheer those of us who are in some doubt as to the future of the agricultural industry. There is one factor which I am sure must have struck all those who have listened to this debate, and that is the expression of an obviously genuine interest on the part of your Lordships' House in the agricultural labourer.ultra195impasse194193s192191sss190189LORD BLEDISLOE
180"There remains at Holmwood an ancient, memorable oak, stretched under which Wilberforce and Pitt resolved on their campaign against the horrors of the slave trade, which gave honour to the one and immortality to the other."179"On the Manor Farm is Runnymede. The Armies of King John and the Confederate Barons encamped here for the signing of Magna Charts, on June 15. 1215."Country Life178consule Planco177: My Lords, the noble Earl, in an able 'and exhaustive speech, has deplored the action of the Government. I cannot agree with him. I rejoice at it. I was never more pleased than when I heard the news. Some of us gave the Bill two years to run; it has been exploded in six months, and I cannot say how much we rejoice. Although Part I of the Bill is scrapped, there is one portion which we regret, and that is that relating to the wages boards. I do not wish to say more about that question, because we can safely leave it to the labourers themselves, who are well organised now and able to take care of themselves at the next General Election, which we understand is not very far distant.180"There remains at Holmwood an ancient, memorable oak, stretched under which Wilberforce and Pitt resolved on their campaign against the horrors of the slave trade, which gave honour to the one and immortality to the other."179"On the Manor Farm is Runnymede. The Armies of King John and the Confederate Barons encamped here for the signing of Magna Charts, on June 15. 1215."Country Life178consule Planco177THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
197d196: My Lords, I hope your Lordships will give this Bill a Second Reading. It repeals Part I of last year's Act and other Acts. I think we wasted a
197d196LORD DYNEVOR
202201: My Lords, I think perhaps I should, at the conclusion of this debate, say one or two words in respect of some of
202201THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: I will come to that. It is perfectly true that this clause, Clause 4, has been largely amended in another place.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
205204203: It has been very considerably altered, but it is not the old wages board, or anything like it. I will not enter upon the question fully now, because we shall be in Committee on the Bill to-morrow. To begin with, there is this one important difference, that the appointed members disappear altogether. The only people who remain are the representatives of the employers and the employed, who will meet together. I will, however, add this fact, which I have no doubt gave rise to the idea. Between the time when this Bill becomes law and October 1, when the Corn Production Act, and consequently the wages boards, come to an end, there is only a very short interval—probably an interval of one month. The Minister felt that that interval afforded a very short time for setting up these conciliation committees all over the country. He therefore put into the Bill the proviso which says that the old members of the wages boards, with the exception of the appointed members, shall be the conciliation committees for two years, or until such time as other conciliation committees are set up. That has, perhaps, given rise to the idea that these new conciliation com-
205204203THE EARL OF ANCASTER
184183182181: My Lords, the noble Marquess has entertained your Lordships with an exceedingly interesting speech, but one cannot help thinking, having seen him standing at the box, or rather in the rostrum, for the last twenty minutes, that he has not been very successful in his new role of auctioneer. He endeavoured for at least twenty minutes to sell your Lordships the whole of the Crown lands, and I do not think he was successful in eliciting a single bid.184183182181LORD CLINTON
: Why were they put in only after the Second Reading of the Bill?LORD STRACHIE
: Entirely altered.LORD STRACHIE
: My Lords, I am going to ask your Lordships to negative the Committee stage of this Bill. But before doing so, I may be allowed, perhaps, to make this one observation. This, I think, is the seventh occasion on which I have had the honour of moving the different stages of the Finance Bill in this House. Before doing so on the first occasion I was informed that it had not been the practice, at all events for many years, to make a formal speech in introducing the Bill. Had I known that the noble Marquess or any other noble Lord opposite wished to raise any question upon it, I would have endeavoured, to the best of my ability, to answer any question.LORD HYLTON
: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time.LORD HYLTON
208: It does not do to assume too confidently that we shall be able to finish it to-morrow, but I share with the noble Earl opposite the most urgent hope that we shall be able to do so. It may be that it would go over, and in that case probably a Friday sitting would be the most convenient course. I want to put in a word of caution about taking the Third Reading and Report stages on the same day (Wednesday), because it is an additional difficulty, in these hurried discussions, that little mistakes are made, and, unless they can be rectified, it ends in great heart-burning afterwards. Your Lordships are well aware that for the purpose of finally checking what is done on Report, there must be
208THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: That is to say, you take Public Business at 4 o'clock.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
176175174173172171170169168: My Lords, at the end of our discussion last night we listened to a very powerful attack by the noble Viscount, Lord Milner, upon the policy of the Government as embodied in this Bill for repealing the Corn Production Act, which was passed by Parliament only a few weeks ago. I wish to associate myself with all that he said in that connection. I cannot think of any more discreditable episode in the life of the Government than to have deliberately asked Parliament to adopt a permanent policy in agriculture in one month;
176175174173172171170169168THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion which stands in my name.THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
: This does not bring the Amendment which has just been made within the Title of the Bill, because the Title says it is an Act to make" consequential amendments in section twelve of the Agriculture Act." This is not Section 12, and the Amendment is therefore quite irrelevant.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
322Daily Telegraph: My Lords, I suppose that this case is the most painful of the long series of horrible tragedies which have occurred in Ireland. The Government of Ireland has very little information on this subject beyond what appears in the322Daily TelegraphTHE EARL OF CRAWFORD
326325:My Lords, the Sukkur barrage scheme to which the noble Lord has referred is an immense undertaking of irrigation development which has been prepared by the Government of Bombay, and which if it can be successfully carried
326325THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
: I beg to thank the noble Earl for his reply. At, the same time I think it is eminently- unsatisfactory. We have never had the names of any of the experts who gave advice which is in flat contradiction of the opinion of the committees appointed by Lord Curzon in 1902–3 and again in 1913. There is nothing to show that the enormous expense which is going to be incurred—LORD LAMINGTON
: Order!THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I regret very ranch that the Secretary of State is so obdurate in this matter and only hope that those responsible may be surcharged any expense.LORD LAMINGTON
: It is not a matter of procedure at all.EARL OF CRAWFORD
: It is true that the noble lord asked me about the Title, but I did not advice him that his Amendment to the Title made it right.LORD CHAIRMAN
: The noble Earl, in moving the Amendment, rightly said that it was a somewhat technical and legal question, but, as I am informed, the Amendment is unnecessary. The paragraphs referred to have for effect the repeal of certain provisions in the Corn Production Act of 1917, and the repeal now proposed of the rest of the provisions of that Act does not alter the position. All notices served or Orders made under the repealed Acts will, as from October 1, cease to operate, except to the very limited extent to which they are preserved by Section 38 of the Interpretation Act, which preserves all existing rights and liabilities in respect of notices pending on that date. I think the Amendment is unnecessary, and I hope the noble Earl will not press it.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: I understand, with reference to what has been said by the noble Earl opposite, that all that this does is to make provision that rights accrued already are protected, and nothing more than that. I think, if that is so, the Amendment is unnecessary.LORD PARMOOR
: Yes, that is the effect.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I do not desire to put the House to the trouble of a Division, but may I ask that between now and the Report stage the noble Earl will look into the matter a little further?THE EARL OF MALMESBURY
: I think I can satisfy the noble Earl between now and the Report stage.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
cwho had on the Paper Amendments in proviso (cLORD SALTOUN,
: The noble Lord does not move his Amendment?THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: No.LORD SALTOUN
216: When the noble Earl answers I hope he will be able to inform the Committee whether this Amendment will have the effect not only of giving the Minister power to destroy noxious weeds on railway banks, etc., but also of giving him the power to go on to land and see
216LORD CLINTON
: May I also ask whether, in the event of the Minister exercising his powers under subsection (10) of Section 4 of the Agriculture Act, his powers will in fact he exercised by delegation through the county agricultural committees?LORD BLEDISLOE
: The two last speeches I think rather show that the acceptance of the Amendment is not so easy as we could desire. I should also, if the noble Lord behind me (Lord Clinton) will excuse me, like to bring to his notice a large area of land under the Forestry Commission, which I think is more covered with thistles than any land that I have seen for some time past. Dealing with the Amendment, I may say at once that I have every sympathy with it, and I should very much like to accept it, but there are difficulties in the way. It is no doubt very important that injurious weeds should be dealt with, but I do not think this is a very convenient way of dealing with the matter. I have gone very carefully into the question, and I find it will be necessary to keep in force, or re-enact, the whole or part of ten Sections of these Acts. I have therefore reluctantly come to the conclusion that this would not be a practical or convenient method of dealing with the question of weeds. I think the best course would be to introduce a Bill dealing with the question next session.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
I hope that this is not really the last word of the Government. I believe I am right in stating that this is the only civilised country in the world where there is no law dealing with the spread of noxious weeds through the neglect of someone or other; and a bird in the hand is worth two in the hush. What is the value of a promise of a small measure next session? We know the good intentions of the Minister of Agriculture, and we also know that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. We have too 'ouch experience to trust to that if we can possibly get the matter dealt with in this Bill. All that the Government have to do is, with the aid of their expert and experienced draftsmen, to find the best place in this Bill to deal with the subject. If they can do that I believe they will have the support of this House and of the other House. I would very strongly press my noble friend to promise to bring up a clause on the Report stage to give effect to this proposal.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: May I enforce the appeal which my noble friend has made? The next session, as we understand, is to be devoted, in the main, to schemes for reforming your Lordships' House, and it appears to me that to complicate that difficult subject with an attempt to deal with agricultural weeds wonted be, in itself, highly unfortunate. I trust, therefore, that the appeal of my noble friend may be acceded to, and that before the Report stage the noble Earl will consider whether it is not possible to include in this absolutely relevant measure some provision dealing with weeds.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
218: I can only repeat that the matter is a difficult one. With a little practical experience of my own on an executive committee I know that when you desire to get weeds cut, very often by the time action is taken the weeds have seeded and blown all over the place. If you are going to deal with this there is no doubt you will throw a certain amount of work on the county land agents. There will be the old story of running about in motor-cars to inspect the different places where the weeds are growing, and all the paraphernalia to be gone through of issuing Orders. I do not recollect at the moment what the powers of an executive committee are, but I think they first of all have to issue an Order,
218THE EARL OF ANCASTER
219de novo: My noble friend does not seem to me to be very enthusiastic on tins subject. The question is not so complicated as he would make out. What we suggest to him is to put a new clause or subsection into the Bill dealing with the matter 219de novoTHE EARL OF SELBORNE
: I shall be very pleased to see whether it is possible before the Report stage to frame a clause dealing with this matter, but I thought it right to point out the difficulties connected with it.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I am put in a little difficulty. My noble friend in charge of the Bill is doubtful whether he can produce before the Report stage a clause which will meet the case. What I would suggest, therefore, is that my Amendment be put in the Bill, and that my noble friend on the Report stage can then delete it if desirable and put in another one in its place.LORD DYNEVOR
221a: I am afraid that I am unable to accept the Amendment. The insertion of these words does not, in fact, add anything to the scope of the clause, but it is quite clear that the purpose for which these moneys may be applied in accordance with Clause 1, subsection (1) (221aTHE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I quite see the force of what the noble Earl has just stated, and therefore I am not in sympathy with the proposal of my noble friend, Lord Strachie, that these scholarships or grants should be earmarked only for the children of those engaged in agriculture. I do not see why the children of other persons living in the country—for instance, the child of a veterinary surgeon living in a village—should not be equally eligible if he or she means to undertake an agricultural career. But I cannot help observing, with reference to what the noble Earl has just said, that it seems a queer piece of drafting to bring in the sons and daughters of agricultural workmen and then to include everybody else. I should have thought it would surely be a great deal simpler to have said merely—" including the establishment of scholarships and maintenance grants." I do not know whether the noble Earl or his Department attach much importance to the retention of those words, but it seems to me, from the Parliamentary point of view, to be rather bad drafting. I do not move anything.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
222On this subject I should like to ask the noble Earl whether, in deciding what particular institutions which provide agricultural education shall receive a part of this grant, the whole of the existing system of agricultural education will be properly explored. If that is not done there seems to be a real danger of certain institutions which may not be regarded as absolutely up-to-date being ruled out altogether when, in fact, there is a real need for those institutions if only they are properly remodelled and brought into line with modern ideas. I refer, very especially, to the oldest and greatest of our agricultural colleges, in fact, the oldest agricultural college in the British Empire—The Royal Agricultural College at Cirencester—which at present is unfortunately closed and which all those who are connected with it are exceedingly anxious to re-open. That depends upon a
222LORD BLEDISLOE
alumnus: I hope I may be allowed to intervene for a moment to support what has been said by my noble friend, Lord Bledisloe, who may be regarded, I think, as the most, distinguished living alumnusTHE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Had I known that I should be questioned as to the way in which this sum of £1,000,000 was to be expended, I could, perhaps, have given your Lordships some better information on the subject. As a matter of fact, I believe nothing has been definitely settled at the present moment, though doubtless suggestions have been made. I think I am quite right in saying, because I have seen a rough draft of the suggestions, though I do not think they have been absolutely confirmed, that the college of which the noble Lord has spoken, the Royal Agricultural College at Cirencester, will be considered and not left out in the cold.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I accept this Amendment. These conciliation committees are to be local in character, and there is therefore no objection to the Amendment.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I have an Amendment down later to accomplish the same object as that which my noble friend desires to achieve by his Amendment. There is reason for this, in view of the present constitution of the existing wages boards. They are in every case, I think, under the Regulations of the Ministry, constituted of representatives of a particular organisation of labour, and of no other persons, and as these conciliation boards will be in many cases the lineal descendants of the boards now existing I think it is advisable that an Amendment to this effect should be put in. So far as I am concerned I have no particular choice whether it is inserted here or later, and I should be willing to accept the view of the Ministry upon the matter, if they are willing, as I hope they are, to accept the principle of the Amendment.LORD CLINTON
: I cannot help thinking that on this question there is a certain amount of misunderstanding among noble Lords. I will try at once to explain the matter, and will commence by saying that later on we intend to accept an Amendment to leave out "woodlands." That will make a good deal of difference. If you put in the words "owners of land," giving owners some right to be on conciliation committees, you may put people on those committees who do not employ a single person in agriculture. I think it was the noble Lord, Lord Bledisloe, who, in the course of his speech yesterday, mentioned the question of occupying owners.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I did not.LORD BLEDISLOE
227: Some noble Lord mentioned the matter of occupying owners. The moment a man is an occupying owner he becomes, of course, an occupier, and therefore has every right to be represented on the conciliation committee. Everyone who occupies land for the purpose of agriculture would and should
227THE EARL OF ANCASTER
228: I think there is a good deal in what the noble Earl has said by way of objection to the Amendment of Lord Bledisloe, which is perhaps too drastic, and does not give any latitude to the Minister. I would draw attention to an Amendment which I have down later on the Paper, and which comes before Lord Clinton's Amendment. It says: in line 19, after "steps, "insert" and shall have regard to the representation of all classes of persons employing workmen in agriculture." That is merely drawing the attention of the Minister to the fact that it is desirable that all classes, including owners, should be considered in this matter. I am ready to admit that the fact of the Government saying they are ready to accept the Amendment to leave out"woodlands"has some effect, but that interpretation is very much larger indeed than that which was included in the previous Act, because
228LORD STRACHIE
230229: I think the real difficulty of this clause arises not from any conflict between the words in the clause and the words as proposed by the noble Lord, but because the clause itself does not seem to have been drafted by anyone who quite knew what he wanted to attain. I draw attention to that because I think it is characteristic of Clause 4 and the whole of its subsections, and if I can get an opportunity at the proper time I am going to try to show your Lordships that the whole of the clause is unworkable.230229LORD SUMNER
231: I should like to say one word in answer to what was said by the noble Earl. The words "persons employing workmen in agriculture," as they stand at present, cover the whole definition; therefore, if the words proposed to be inserted by the noble Lord, Lord Bledisloe, were inserted none of the difficulties would arise to which the noble Earl has called attention.]t would not give any right of representation to an absentee landlord; it would not give any right of representation to a landlord who did not employ workmen in agriculture; and therefore, I must say that I hope that the words will be adopted. I think the objections of the noble Earl would not apply. The words do define, and I think
231LORD PARMOOR
If it is the general wish of the noble Lords that the words should be inserted I have no objection to accepting the Amendment. The only thing is that I must consider, before the Report stage, whether it will let in people who are not employing anybody in agriculture and have no right to representation.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I think Lord Bledisloe's Amendment is open to some objections, and I am under the impression that the proposal in my name is perhaps better suitable to the purpose than the one the noble Lord has set down. I said that I would accept either Amendment, whichever the noble Earl wished, but on the whole to leave out the word "owner" seems to sue of some advantage in this connection.LORD CLINTON
: The effect of this Amendment will be to limit the conciliation committees to questions dealing with wages and hours of labour, though it is difficult to see how any provision in an Act can prevent a conciliation committee, if they thought fit, arriving at an agreement as to conditions of employment. It is obvious that wages and hours of employment are the primary matters likely to be dealt with by these committees, but I am not satisfied that there may not be some question arising as to conditions of employment, perhaps not directly connected with wages and hours of labour. Although it is not very material whether the words "or conditions of employment" are struck out or not, I hope the noble Lord will not press his Amendment. Some questions may arise in which it may be desirable that conciliation committees should be able to deal with conditions of employment, and I hope, therefore, he will not press the Amendment.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Has the noble Earl considered whether the words "conditions of employment" may not bring us into the old difficulty into which the wages boards got on the subject of cottages? The noble Lord, Lord Lee of Fareham, gave us a pledge, when the original Bill was before your Lordships, that the question of cottages should no longer be considered by them. I cannot see how, under the words "or conditions of employment," you can rule out the possibility of their taking cottages into consideration, and proceeding to fix the rent, as sonic of the wages boards have done. I hope the Amendment will be pressed.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
233: The noble Earl has remarked that there is nothing obligatory in the arrangement arrived at
233THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I think that point should be considered again before the Report stage. Unless the hours are fixed by the conciliation committee they will not know at what hour to begin paying the rate for overtime. I am obliged to the noble Marquess for having put that point; it is certainly one which should be considered. On the general question as to conditions of employment," I should still regret if the words were struck out. A case has occurred to me; it may be far-fetched, but it is one which the conciliation committee might have to take into consideration. I know of farms where they are in the habit of bringing some 500 or 600 people from the neighbouring town in motor lorries in order to work a large area cultivated as market gardens. It may be said that the carting of these people would be a question of"conditions of employment," while the question of railway or 'bus fares enters into the subject. I do not wish to oppose the Amendment if noble Lords think it advisable these words should be left out, but at the same time I hope it will not be pressed.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: In the original Act there is not a single word about "conditions of employment." I have react Part II and the clause under which the wages boards were instituted, and there is not a single word about "conditions." I entirely agree with the Marquess of Crewe that wages and hours and overtime go together.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: May I put the point of view of the agricultural labourer? He is tenacious of the local conditions under which he works. If you are to allow conditions of employment to be altered, they may be altered against the wish of the agricultural labourer. I ask that he should be allowed to keep all the conditions of employment and that they should not be interfered with.LORD PARMOOR
235: On the next five or six pages of the Amendment Paper there are a number of Amendments to leave out subsections, followed by Amendments to amend those subsections. I think it would be most convenient if I adopted the form of Question "to leave out the, first word of the subsection" in every case. If that be not accepted, the rights of other
235THE LORD CHAIRMAN
237236: The procedure laid down by the Lord Chairman makes it convenient, I think, that I should speak upon the Amendment which stands in my name. I have not put down this Amendment, and two consequential Amendments which appear later on the Paper, out of any affection that I feel for these conciliation boards or for the agricultural committees. I regard both as set up more or less expressly for the purpose of interfering with the liberty of the subject, and neither of them, therefore, to be encouraged. But it is evident that in the country, as well as in your Lordships' House, there is a preponderance of opinion in favour of constituting these conciliation committees, and it appears to me to be wise, if it be possible so to do, to set up these committees in a business-like manner.237236LORD HASTINGS
: The Amendment before the House is to leave out the subsection. I think that has to be decided before the noble Lord's Amendment can be actually moved.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
238: May I refer to what is really a point of order that I think it is desirable your Lordships should have before you in considering this matter? Of course, the whole of Clause 4 is really the pith of the Bill, so far as discussion is concerned, and, to a very large number—at least I hope it is very large—of members of your Lordships' House, the subsection which makes the decision of the conciliation committee enforceable is the most important part of the clause. But I think I make no mistake in saying that, as the Amendment Paper stands, the Amendment which is now before the House is the only one upon which we can, strictly speaking, discuss and effectually take action upon that part of subsection (5) which makes any rate of wages agreed, confirmed and advertised, an implied term in every contract of employment.238LORD SUMNER
: May I interrupt the noble and learned Lord in order I ask the guidance of the Lord Chairman as to the desire of the House, on a Motion to leave out initial words, that we should discuss the whole clause, and the whole of the Amendments on that clause. If that be done it will be difficult to know what we are actually doing.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
239: I fear I was not successful in making my object plain. It would not be strictly in order, I suppose, on an Amendment to leave out lines 16 to 21 on page 3, to make any extended allusion to the subsection on page 4. But for the purpose of showing that the whole scheme of the clause is unsatisfactory, it is necessary to refer not only to subsection (1) but to other subsections, and therefore I am not suggesting that we should discuss all the Amendments, at once, but that the whole of the clause must necessarily be
239LORD SUMNER
: I should not hesitate to say that there are precedents both ways, and perhaps it is for your Lordships' convenience that a general discussion should take place on the whole clause, on the first important Amendment. I gather, not having been into this very deeply, that the Amendment of Lord Hastings, although not technically before your Lordships' House, will follow on the Amendment to omit the subsection, and that it does raise a very broad question of policy. On the other hand, there is the question at the end, that the clause stand part of the Bill. It rests entirely with your Lordships when a general discussion shall take place. In my view one course is as convenient as the other.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: My object in moving my Amendment was to obtain from the noble Earl an explanation as to the lines which the Government intended to take. If I am satisfied by that, my Amendment can be withdrawn.VISCOUNT GALWAY
240: I think it would perhaps be more convenient if, first of all, I answered the noble Viscount who has moved this Amendment, and then, if he is satisfied with my explanation and withdraws his Amendment, it will be open for me to go into the further question regarding agricultural committees. The object of this subsection—I do not think it is very obscure—is to enable the two Government Departments concerned to do what they can to organise the formation of committees, and to assist, as I have already said, by a small Department consisting mainly of officers who have already had experience in industrial questions. I should
240THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Is there any limit of numbers?VISCOUNT GALWAY
: There is no intention whatever to limit the number of conciliation committees or areas. If any area wishes to set up a conciliation committee all the Ministry shall be satisfied of is that the people who wish to form themselves into conciliation committees are representative of the employers and employed in that district.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
241: With regard to the Amendment of Lord Hastings, its object apparently is to strike out the compulsory power of the Minister to take such steps as he thinks necessary, and makes it compulsory upon the agricultural committee to do so. It goes, of course, a great deal further than the present clause, because he uses the word"maintain," and that, of course, may mean (I do not know whether he intends it) to pay salaries and expenses and otherwise maintain the conciliation committees. But that wording could, of course, very easily be altered. Do your Lordships think it sound, however, that these very great powers should be put into the hands of agricultural committees—many of them, no doubt, most valuable bodies, but many of them such as could not properly be described in that manner? I think it is too strong a
241LORD CLINTON
: Personally, I feel some difficulty in making a choice between the two alternatives, but I am bound to say that, on balance, I think there is an advantage in securing such a measure of uniformity between different areas in the county as the intervention of the Minister would involve. It seems to me that there is a real danger of having in some counties no committee at all, in other counties a committee which is coterminous with the county, and in other counties a committee representing possibly the district of the rural district council, or some similar area. It is obviously to the general advantage of the agricultural community that there should be some uniformity obtaining throughout the whole country, and for that reason I should be rather inclined to favour the Amendment to be moved by the noble Earl, bearing in mind that he, too, desires that there should be a consultation with, or the concurrence of, the county agricultural committee, which, after all, is best able to tell him what are the agricultural conditions prevailing in its area.LORD BLEDISLOE
: I hope that Lord Selborne's Amendment will be the one adopted. There are one or two excellent reasons for that. The noble Earl pointed out, for instance, the voluntary character of subsection (1). I am not inclined myself to alter that into the compulsory form which is in Lord Hastings' Amendment. All that is really necessary as regards the agricultural committee, either in the way of concurrence (I like the word "concurrence" myself) or in any other way proper to protect the local interests, would certainly be achieved and safeguarded under the noble Earl's Amendment.LORD PARMOOR
: Both these Amendments are excellent, but I rather like the Amendment of Lord Hastings, because it does not stereotype everything. My noble friend behind me wants a standard throughout the length and breadth of the country. I have another objection. The noble Earl in charge of the Bill has spoken about the setting up of a Labour Department. We have seen what has happened in that respect in the past. We set up a Department, and it grows and grows. And this Department will grow also. We know how the Ministry of Agriculture has expanded already, and according to the papers, the Minister himself contemplates reducing the expenditure by 36 per cent. But it is not the way to reduce expenditure to set up another Department. I cannot help thinking it is very much better to let each county council adopt its own scheme for each separate locality. I am all in favour of decentralisation, but this is centralisation once more. We shall have a large number of officials going about all over the country, consulting these various county councils at great expense, giving them advice, and saying: "You ought to concur with us in this particular matter." On the ground of expenditure, therefore, I shall certainly support Lord Hastings' Amendment.LORD STRACHIE
243: I do not know whether this is the right time to speak upon my Amendment—I only wish to facilitate things. My proposal is to insert, after "power," the words:"with the concurrence in each case of the agricultural committee of the council of the county concerned as to the constitution and area of jurisdiction of any such joint conciliation committees." The effect of Lord Hastings' Amendment is to transfer the initiative in this matter from the Minister to each county council. I have no objection to that in itself, but I am not quite sure whether it fits in with the scheme of the clause as drafted. I should not be surprised if my noble friend in charge of the Bill pointed out that, if Lord Hastings' Amendment were carried, many subsequent Amendments would be necessary. It was because I thought that was so that I was content to leave the initiative in the hands of the Ministry, and accept the scheme of the drafting of the clause, provided that the Government would accept my Amendment, the intention of which is to make the concurrence of the agricultural committee of the county
243THE EARL OF SELBORNE
244: I should like to ask my noble friend, Lord Selborne, a question on his Amendment. I do riot agree either with the Amendment of Lord Galway or with those of Lord Hastings and Lord Selborne. In his Amendment Lord Selborne leaves it to the agricultural committee to settle the area of jurisdiction, but surely the agricultural committee of a county
244LORD DYNEVOR
: The reply to my noble friend is that I do not think his difficulty is one which absolutely floors me. The Minister of Agriculture will consult the agricultural committee of a county council only in respect of land which is in that county If a joint conciliation committee is to be set up to deal with part of one county and part of another the Minister, of course, will consult the agricultural committees of both the county councils concerned.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: And I have no doubt, in pursuing what my noble friend has said, that that is what will have to be done. My impression is (and in this I differ from my noble friend behind me) that it is a case that very often must arise. I think it will be found that in areas where the system of farming is uniform, conciliation committees may very often overlap county boundaries. I am glad, therefore, that the noble Lord, Lord Dynevor, has raised the question, because it is one of considerable importance.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I should like to raise one point in connection with the Amendment of the noble Lord, Lord Hastings, which I take to be before the House. The noble Earl, Lord Selborne, pointed out with considerable emphasis that under the Amendment he is suggesting the initiative would remain with the Ministry of Agriculture. It is precisely because some of us feel that the definition of the initiative in the Bill as it stands is so vague that we are very much inclined to support Lord Hastings' Amendment which definitely puts upon county agricultural committees the duty of setting up conciliation committees and defining the area over which they shall have jurisdiction. If that Amendment were adopted, I feel that more would be done in the matter than is possible under the Bill as it stands.LORD O'HAGAN
247246245: We have had a general discussion on the question of
247246245THE EARL OF ANCASTER
248: I confess that many of us on this side of the House regret very much the line that the noble Earl has taken upon this Amendment. We do not share with him his opinion of the capacity of the agricultural committees of the county councils. He says that he does not think they are capable of forming a sound opinion upon wages and hours. But in our agricultural counties some of the best authorities on agriculture in the country are members of the county councils, and probably a large majority of the members of the county council to which I belong have a considerable knowledge of agriculture, while some of its members know at least as much about wages and hours, and how they ought to be arranged, as does the Ministry of Agriculture. We have learned in the last few years to distrust the pressure from a central organisation. We have seen each of the Departments in turn—the Ministry of Health, of course, very much so—setting up a central organisation by means of which the Department wields influence upon the localities. Most of us have got to distrust that interference and to dislike it. We would much rather rely upon the knowledge of our localities possessed by those in those localities. Persons in a locality know best the relations which ought to exist among the various classes of the community to which- they belong.248THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
249: The noble Marquess who spoke last referred to the possibility of a conciliation committee being formed and overlapping one county, or possibly more than one county, boundary. It certainly seems to me that in various parts of England this is likely to occur. But the noble Marquess was in error in supposing that I thought a great difficulty would arise on that account. Two or more county agricultural committees could no doubt, so far as they may be introduced into the system, quite easily conic to terms upon the formation of such a committee. I am bound to say that of the two Amendments which have been discussed together, I prefer that moved by the noble Earl, Lord Selborne, for this reason. I see a distinct value in the assistance, of the Ministry of Agriculture at the preliminary stage of the formation of these committees. As has already been said, without prescribing anything like a wooden uniformity, I agree with what was said by the noble Earl who represents the Department that valuable advice can be given by the experienced officials of the Ministry on certain points concerning the formation and work of the committees.249THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I intervene with sonic diffidence only for a moment for the purpose of making a suggestion. I very much prefer the Amendment of the noble Earl, Lord Selborne, to that of Lord Hastings. I mean that I prefer the Government plan, with an Amendment somewhat on the lines suggested. But the noble Earl who is in charge of the Bill made one very serious objection to Lord Selborne's Amendment, and that was that there would be two bodies with a power of veto—the agricultural committee of the county council and the Ministry. I am afraid that this clause, as at present drawn, may not work at all, and I think there is a great deal in what the noble and learned Lord, Lord Sumner, said on that point. But if the noble Earl, Lord Selborne, could modify his Amendment by inserting after "council," "consultation in each case,'' that, it seems to me, would remove some of the difficulties. Otherwise, I do not see how it is going to work, if there are to be two people with a veto, and nobody with real power.LORD EMMOTT
251250: I feel that the Amendment which stands in my name has been attacked by the noble Earl in charge of the Bill for making suggestions which, in fact, it does not make. He says that it would involve the comity council in labour disputes. I think I am correct in attributing those words to him. I do not wish agricultural committees of the council to be engaged in labour disputes, nor to have any control of or anything whatever to do with the conciliation committees other than the duty of setting them up. I endeavoured to make clear that there is, under the Bill, no obligation upon anybody to set up these conciliation committees. These conciliation
251250LORD HASTINGS
252: I am afraid noble Lords are tired of hearing me, but I will try to put one practical case, because I think when we talk about this hoard of officials and this great Department, set up by the Ministry of Agriculture lately, noble Lords are getting a little off the track. I will try to put an actual case which may occur. As you are aware, by this clause it is proposed to continue the existing wages boards without the appointed members, and those people shall act for two years as a conciliation committee until other conciliation committees are set up. During that time any districts which wish to break away from the existing conciliation committee will write to the Minister of Agriculture and ask what steps they are to take, and whether they can be helped to set up a conciliation committee, and we shall give our best advice as to how they can set to work about it. In reply to their request for advice they would probably get an answer a great deal more quickly than they would from the agricultural committee of the county council. They will then proceed to make arrangements for setting up this conciliation committee. When they have done it all the Minister will want to know is that that conciliation committee so set up does represent the employers and employed. This conciliation committee is formed already; they do represent employers and employed; and they may go ahead.252THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I say it respectfully, but the noble Earl does not seem to know the terms of his own Bill. The Bill does not place the initiative on any section of persons within a county. It places the initiative on the Minister, and lain prepared to see it rest with the Minister as long as he obtains that local advice which the council in each county can give him. When the noble Earl says that it is some particular district of a county which has the initiative, that is not the Bill. The Bill says the Minister shall have power, and I think we should make it obligatory on the Minister to take these steps.LORD BLEDISLOE
The Amendment which I now move is a drafting Amendment.LORD BLEDISLOE
: I accept it.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: If it had been only a question of consultation I think perhaps the Minister of Agriculture could have accepted the Amendment, but with the word "concurrence" in I am unable to accept it.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Following the course which I adopted on a previous Amendment, I will put the Question in this form: "That the first word of subsection (2) stand part."THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: The noble Lord has asked why this clause has come into the Bill. It has come into the Bill undoubtedly owing to a compromise. The position was this. Those who represent, or profess to represent, labour in another place, frankly stated that they were determined that the wages boards should continue. Those whom the noble Lord says represent the greater part of the tenant farmers equally declared that the wages boards must come to an end. Undoubtedly, this clause, as it is drawn, is a compromise between the two parties. I will only say this. In the first instance, not only were the Labourers' Union consulted and also the Farmers' Union, but also some of the leading members of the House of Commons on agricultural matters.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Does the noble Earl say that the Farmers' Union accepted this clause?LORD STRACHIE
260: I do not think they care for the clause, but they have accepted it as it stands. It is an agreed clause. They would rather be without it, I admit, but equally the labourers' unions required the wages boards to be kept, and, as I say, this clause does represent an agreement arrived at between the Farmers' Union and the Labourers' Unions concerned. It is on those grounds that it is introduced in its present form. The noble Lord asks why Scotland is not treated in the same way. It is because there the unions representing farmers and labourers take a different view of the matter. The Secretary for Scotland said on this subject that the Farm Servants' Union in Scotland, a powerful homogeneous body, thinks that it can, by collective bargaining, secure better wages for farm servants in Scotland than any wages board can secure for them, and he added:"It is significant to observe that the current rate of wages in Scotland is higher to-day than the minimum wage fixed by the Wages Board in Scotland." We know that that is not the case in England, because, as a matter of fact, the wages fixed by the Wages Board are practically the current rate of wages at this time.260THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I think the noble Earl is a little in error in imagining that the district wages committees at present in existence and still less the appointed members of those committees, had any final power of settling wages in the districts in which they operated. As a matter of fact, all they did was to make a recommendation to the Central Wages Board in London, and the order came from the Central Wages Board, and it was not at their discretion at all.LORD BLEDISLOE
: Were not there appointed members on the Central Wages Board?THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Yes, but the final word did not rest with the appointed members on the district wages committees.LORD BLEDISLOE
: No, but the Central Wages Board, of course, goes. It is not kept in this clause.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
262: I may be in error in interpreting what the noble Earl said just now. If so, I express my regret. But, of course, if in this country the agricultural labourers' unions were as strong as they are in Scotland—and it is very unfortunate that in their opinion, at any rate, they are not—we could scrap once and for all the whole of this Government interference as between master and man in respect of agricultural employment, and very lunch better it would be if we could do so. But, assuming that we cannot do so, and that we cannot absolutely follow the Scottish precedent, surely there are two things that we want to aim at—first of all, at the earliest possible date to discontinue any Government interference with contracts between farmer and workman on our British farms, and, in the second place, to cease at the earliest possible moment the rigid bureaucratic system under which the wages boards and the district wages committees operate at the present time.262LORD BLEDISLOE
265264263: In all the debates in your Lordships' House that I have had the advantage of attending I do not think I have ever heard so remarkable and, may I add, so regrettable an explanation of a Government Bill as that which has been advanced just now by the noble Earl opposite. The residue of this clause proposes that employers and workmen shall not be allowed to make an agreement which suits both of them perfectly well as to employment and remuneration for that employment. None of your Lordships, on however good terms lie may be with any one of his workmen, and however intelligently willing that workman may be to agree, is to be allowed to agree as to employment or wages, nor is the workman to be allowed to agree, except upon terms which are to be fixed over his head, and are to be absolutely compulsory, agreed by voluntary conciliation committees, in the constitution of which the employer may have, and certainly at present has, no fixed share at all.265264263LORD SUMNER
: I have no doubt that those who agree with the noble and learned Lord, that the whole of this scheme is unworkable, are quite justified in attempting to put this clause out of the Bill. In the same way I think those who want to make it unworkable are going the best way about it. On the other hand, I look upon this as part of the whole scheme, and as a somewhat ingenious way of getting out of a very difficult position, and I want to see it worked. You are going to get into a position of really great difficulty if, at the very beginning, you allow the Ministry to possess no power to regulate wages or set up conciliation committees at all. We shall be doing a very bad turn to a scheme which is an attempt to set up conciliation and to create good will in the country districts, unless the methods of the Bill are adopted. If there is no continuity with the present wages boards, it is quite certain that in a large number of districts there can be no conciliation committee at work during the period. What will happen during that time it is exceedingly difficult to say, but it does seem a somewhat simple method that the district wages boards which, on the whole, have worked well in the past, should, until other boards areLORD CLINTON
: I must press the noble Earl to give me a direct answer to my question How can he say that the National Farmers' Union have agreed to this when on July 20 they said that they wished for complete economic freedom in the event of the withdrawal of guarantees? They went on to say: "The council further sees no reason why England and Wales should be excluded from the freedom proposed to be granted to Scotland." That resolution was passed by the National Farmers' Union. How does the noble Earl reconcile that with what he said?LORD STRACHIE
: I can only state now what I said before. I was present at a meeting which was attended by representatives of the National Farmers' Union and of the two chief labourers' unions concerned, and also by several leading members of the House of Commons. I have already said that the Farmers' Union stated they would sooner be without the wages boards. The Labourers' Union— THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: What was the date?LORD STRACH1E
: I forget for the moment, but, after discussion, the compromise which I have stated was arrived at and agreed to in another place. I can only say, in addition, that it is a little curious in these debates that the moment there is any question that tells against the noble Lord he instantly belittles the Farmers' Union, but when he wants to make a case in his favour, and they help him to do so, then there is nobody like the Farmers' Union.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Yes, I accept that.THE EARL OF ANC ASTER
270269: I understand that this Amendment is either inspired by, or at least approved by, the Minister of Agriculture or his Department. For my part I venture to hope that your Lordships will give the most strenuous opposition to this Amendment, because, in effect, it perpetuates the same noxious principle which is embodied in subsection (3). Your Lordships will remember that under subsection (3), which some of us desire to excise altogether, that if any member is really conciliatory and desires to effect some compromise between the views of the two parties represented, he is undoubtedly going to be hounded out at a moment's notice by the machine which appoints him. Anything embodying to a greater extent the tyranny of trades unionism it is difficult to imagine. I have no doubt the noble Earl opposite will say there is sonic distinction between the district wages committee and the voluntary conciliation committee in this connection. It is obvious that in a large majority of the counties of England the district wages committee will be the conciliation committee; in fact, until the Minister takes action to set up some different body, it is provided by the Bill that they shall be the conciliation committee and shall have all the powers which this Clause 4 confers upon them in the matter of fixing wages.270269LORD BLEDISLOE
271interim: I am prepared to accept Lord Dynevor's Amendment. As I understand, it merely limits the replacement by the different organisations to the 271interimTHE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I think the noble Earl takes a somewhat sanguine view as to what is likely to happen when he assumes that these arrangements which have been made for voting, not according to the common sense displayed by individuals but according to the ticket of some organisation, will lead to the establishment of a conciliatory spirit. The whole thing is on a wrong basis. If you are to attempt to establish conciliation committees they ought to be freely appointed and composed of people of various modifications of view. It does not matter very much whether people are extreme or moderate if they have to vote under the orders of a particular party. What they have to do is to vote according to the orders of the organisation which sends them. I entirely dislike the plan of a block vote. I believe it to be thoroughly mischievous, and I am sorry the arrangement which has been arrived at, which I can only describe as a backstairs arrangement, with the presumed representatives of one or two organisations, has brought about the adoption of this particular system. I entirely agree with Lord Bledisloe on this matter and I shall support him if he continues to oppose the proposal.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
272en blocipse dixit: I do not think the noble Earl in charge of the Bill really answered Lord Bledisloe. The real point is this. How can a man act impartially and moderately in these matters if he is liable to be dismissed at any time by the 272en blocipse dixitLORD PARMOOR
: I find it difficult to understand the object of the Amendment or the subsection which it is to replace. I agree with Lord Parmoor that you are putting the members of these boards in a most intolerable situation if, at any moment they vote against orders, they are liable to be dismissed. I can understand that at the commencement of a new system there might be some alteration in members, but that such a plan should continue for two years is perfectly intolerable, and I hope your Lordships will not agree to the Amendment.LORD CLINTON
: There is one point on which perhaps I was not quite clear. As I understand it is a question of once only that a member can be changed; that is my information. It is now suggested, in view of the different functions that these committees will have to carry out, that the organisations, if they wish, may change their representatives; and it is considered that they should be allowed to do so.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
273: I am surprised that Lord Dynevor, with whom I have great pleasure usually in acting, should have made himself responsible for such an Amendment. Let us consider what an extraordinary proposal it is. In another place this clause was quite proper, as originally drawn, to the effect that if a vacancy occurs in one of the present district committees in the normal way, it shall be filled by the appointment of a member by the organisation by whom the vacating member was nominated. That is quite right. This Amendment does not do what the Earl of Ancaster says—namely, that if they like to make one change they may make it. It puts every single member absolutely at the orders of the central organisation of the body which appointed him. If he in any way acts as they disapprove he is instantly dismissed, and if his successor the following week again incurs the displeasure of the central organisation he may be dismissed, too. I cannot conceive how any self-respecting man would sit in such circumstances. I hope the Amendment will not be carried. There is no such provision in regard to the existing wages boards. The members of the existing wages boards, so far as they are not appointed by the Minister to balance
273THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: Speaking with some experience of conciliation boards, may I say that I entirely agree with the noble Earl who has just spoken? It would make it quite impracticable for conciliation to work if an Amendment of this nature was in existence. Instead of making for conciliation it would make for discord.LORD ASKWITH
274"It shall be the duty of the agricultural committee of the council of the county concerned, to invite all organisations representing agricultural employers or workmen within the area for which it is intended to set up a conciliation committee to nominate persons to represent them on the aforesaid committee, and such nominations shall be accepted by the county agricultural committee, provided always that the number of nominations accepted as representative of the employers and workers' organisations respectively shall be equal."had on Amendment to the Paper to leave out subsection (3) and insert the following new subsection—
274"It shall be the duty of the agricultural committee of the council of the county concerned, to invite all organisations representing agricultural employers or workmen within the area for which it is intended to set up a conciliation committee to nominate persons to represent them on the aforesaid committee, and such nominations shall be accepted by the county agricultural committee, provided always that the number of nominations accepted as representative of the employers and workers' organisations respectively shall be equal."LORD HASTINGS
onus275: I hope the noble Lord will not press this Amendment. I think it is not necessary, and that it is brought forward under rather a mistaken idea as to the functions of the Minister in this matter. I have said several times during the evening that it is hoped that these conciliation committees will spring up voluntarily. It is not the intention of the Minister to invite persons or organisations to set them up, nor is it the intention of the Minister to accept nominations. In fact, the whole point is that persons in the district are to get together, if they wish to form a conciliation committee, and the Ministry will be ready to give them assistance in the work before them. The initiative, however, of inviting people to come and join these conciliation committees, and then of accepting nominations, is not intended to be assumed by the Minister. All he wishes to do is to satisfy himself that the persons who have applied to be members and to form a conciliation committee are
onus275THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I think the object of my noble friend in moving this Amendment is a perfectly good one, and that it should facilitate to a very considerable extent the setting up of these committees. The noble Earl said that it is not the intention of the Minister to accept nominations or to initiate these committees. It is laid down, however, that he is to take such steps as he thinks best adapted to securing their voluntary formation. Does not that imply that he is going to meet organisations for the purpose of getting these conciliation committees set up? Is it intended that he should leave the councils entirely alone and merely wait until nominations are sent in? I do not believe for a moment that conciliation committees will be set up if he takes such a very neutral and aloof attitude. I am not certain that I agree entirely with the wording of this Amendment; I should like it altered in one or two particulars. I do not know whether my noble friend would consider it further, and, perhaps, defer it until the Report stage, to see if it could not be drafted in a different form.LORD CLINTON
: I entirely agree with what the noble Earl has said, and I should have thought that the noble Lord who moved this Amendment would also agree. The effect of this Amendment, if it is carried, is to make the Minister the real body instead of the advisory body. It is concentration in a very real form, and it is inconsistent with what the noble Earl pointed out earlier in the evening that this sort of duty is not to be thrown upon the Minister, who was merely to act in an advisory capacity, whenever local bodies might come for assistance. I really think that this is inconsistent with the noble Lord's objection to centralised interference.LORD PARMOOR
: As a matter of fact, it is my intention to place upon somebody the duty of initiating these conciliation committees. I tried to do it in another form in an Amendment which was not approved, and I am now hoping to make the Minister responsible for setting them up, because I entirely agree with my noble friend, Lord Clinton, that these conciliation committees will not spring up of their own volition from the various parts of the counties, and that they will require initiative on the part of somebody to set them going. I was hoping the Ministry would do that. I wished, by my Amendment, to make it obligatory upon the Minister to consult all organisations representing employers and employed, not in any way to the exclusion of individuals, before he allowed these conciliation committees to be constituted. In deference to my noble friend's suggestion, that the drafting is not by any means perfect—I do not pretend for a moment that it is—I am perfectly prepared to withdraw the Amendment on the understanding that it will be brought up again in a proper form on Report.LORD HASTINGS
: If the noble Lord is going to bring this Amendment up in another form, will he be good enough to pay attention to this particular point? The Amendment, as it now stands, makes the Minister invite ever organisation—whatever an organisation may be; I do not know, and it is not defined—to send in nominations, and then it forces the Minister to accept the nominations. Supposing there are a dozen societies all of which send in ten times as many nominations as there are vacancies upon the conciliation committee. The correlative of that is that you force the Minister, in his own name, to turn down 90 per cent. of the nominations he has received. I think that is rather a serious obligation to put upon the Government.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I quite realise that.LORD HASTINGS
: Why should the Minister of Agriculture be compelled to say that nine out of ten of the gentlemen whose names have been sent up are unfit? If the noble Lord tries to avoid that particular difficulty, it will be, from the point of view of the Minister of Agriculture, a very great help.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I do not fully understand even now the purpose of the Amendment. The Minister does not propose to accept any jurisdiction for deciding whether a proposal in relation to a minimum rate of wages, or a standard rate of wages, is reasonable or unreasonable. The whole scope of the clause is that the conciliation committees will be formed for the purpose of dealing by agreement with questions of wages, and, being voluntary associations, they can adopt any procedure they like for this purpose. If they think fit they can apply to the Minister under Clause 4 to make the agreement compulsory on all employers in their district, but there is no obligation on the committees to take this course, and it is quite possible that in many cases it will be found that a voluntary rate agreed to by a committee is so generally observed that there is no necessity to take this course. I hope the noble Lord will not press his Amendment, because we have heard a great deal about compulsion and the re-establishment of wages boards. He will see that the clause says that the committee "may submit the agreement to the Minister." If the conciliation committee reach a decision and find that decision has been generally observed throughout the district, they are not forced to send it to the Minister at all.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I hope the noble Lord will not press the Amendment. It would mean practically that all proposals should be submitted to the Minister and he would be appointed to fix wages. The great thing is to have conciliation to produce agreement, and then, if they think fit, they can refer to the Minister. But this would make it possible for the Minister to have all sorts of proposals referred to him, and we are anxious to get rid of control in all forms.VISCOUNT GALWAY
: I agree with my noble friend that the drafting of this paragraph is peculiar. This might be any committee formed for any other purpose, but which happens to agree on a rate of wages. I should certainly have said, had I been drafting it, "Any such committee may agree on a rate of wages." I hope the Government will consider it before the Report stage.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I should like to ease your Lordships' minds on this subject. I do not really mind in what manner this particular preface to the clause is framed. I do not want to have any drastic interference in this matter. All I want is that it should be made perfectly clear what are the duties—possibly the permissive duties—of these committees. The drafting of the clause is so bad that I want the noble Earl kindly to consult his legal adviser to see if it can be put into more correct legal form on the Report stage.LORD BLEDISLOE
: I shall be very pleased to consult the legal advisers to see whether it can be made clearer.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
"the Minister may confirm the agreement and cause the same and the (late from which and the period for which it shall operate"—280had on the Paper an Amendment, in subsection (4), after "rate of wages," to insert "for a specified period." The noble Lord said: I placed this Amendment on the Paper to raise an important point which was only brought to my notice yesterday. I am not absolutely wedded to the wording of the Amendment, because I had to draft it in a hurry. if your Lordships will look at page 4 of the Bill you will see that it now says in line 2,"the joint conciliation committee "—those are the words that have just been inserted—"which has agreed upon a rate of wages for any class
"the Minister may confirm the agreement and cause the same and the (late from which and the period for which it shall operate"—280LORD DYNEVOR
281: I think my noble friend has done a great service in bringing this matter forward, but I venture to submit to him and to the House that even he has not given a complete account of the difficulty in which we are landed. I understand why the Government put this clause as vaguely as possible, and to a great extent I think the whole House is in agreement with them. The Government do not want the Minister to be responsible for rates of wages; nor do your Lordships' House wish him to be responsible for them. The Government want the submission of a rate to come as a purely voluntary action of a suitably representative conciliation committee.281THE. EARL OF SELBORNE
: I think the point raised by both noble Lords is a perfectly' proper one The wording does require alteration, but it is difficult for me to say, on the spur of the moment, what exactly the Amendment should be. Let me say, first of all, that I think an amendment is necessary to remove doubt on this subject. It is, of course, the custom in every industry to agree on a rate of wages either for a specified period or for the rate of wages continuing in operation until either party to the agreement gives notice to determine it. There would not, in the latter case, therefore, be an agreement for a specified period. My suggestion would be that we should not accept this Amendment, but should insert the word "agreed" before "period" in line 10 when we come to that. That would, I think, make it quite clear that the period for which a rate shall operate must be a period agreed by the committee and not fixed by the Minister. When we get to line 10 I would move to insert, after the third "the," the word "agreed." If that would satisfy noble Lords I think it would be the best way to make it clear.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: You would have to make it apply to the word "date" as well as to the word "period."THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: That would practically be what I have moved, but it does not meet the objection raised by the noble Earl, Lord Selborne, as to not specifying the period. It says "the agreed period," and therefore the conciliation committee will have to come to an agreement for a certain period. I do not know if they can re-open the question again until that period is ended, and my noble friend's suggestion will, therefore, be open to the same objection as mine, because it will not meet the objection raised by my noble friend, Lord Selborne.LORD DYNEVOR
: May I venture to hope that this matter will be left over till the Report stage in order that it may be carefully considered? I am bound to say that to substitute the word suggested by the noble. Earl would make the reading cumbrous and less convincing than would the insertion of words which my noble friend, Lord Dynevor, suggests. In any case what he suggests is, I understand, that the proposal of the conciliation committee shall include not merely the rate of wages, hut the date from which and the period for which it shall operate. It is an agreement including all these three items. All would have to be provided for. It is those three points as part of one agreement upon which the Minister would be asked to confer. That sounds the simplest method, but in any case I would venture to ask your Lordships, if the noble Earl assents, to allow this matter to stand over to Report to be properly considered.LORD BLEDISLOE
: On the understanding that the Government will put down an Amendment.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: I do not wish to make a decision on this. I only ask whether it would not be for the convenience of your Lordships if the Amendment, which I am informed is the best way to treat this question, to insert the word "agreed" in front of the word "period" in line 10, should not be agreed to now in Committee, and then, if that is found cumbrous or not to carry out what is desired, the question could again be discussed on Report. I am afraid that at this moment it is not very easy for me to decide the best line of drafting, but I think that would be the best course to pursue it is only the insertion of one word, and it is not very cumbrous.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: The only objection I can raise to the suggestion of my noble friend to put the word "agreed" in front of the word "period" in line 10 is that he is assuming that the conciliation committee will have an agreed period. What will happen if the conciliation committee set up a rate of wages without an agreed period? My Amendment compels the conciliation committee to decide on a period.LORD DYNEVOR
: It would not until further notice be an agreed period legally.EARL GREY
: I am entirely in your Lordships' hands. If you like to leave the whole question over till the Report stage for further consideration, be it so.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: It is much sounder to leave it over.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I have a good deal of doubt in following the advice of my noble friend, Lord Salisbury, because if this is left to the Report stage and my noble friend the Earl of Ancaster brings up an Amendment, we may not have very much time to consider it, and it is always rather difficult to alter an Amendment on Report. May I suggest to him that he accepts my Amendment, subject to the right of alteration when it comes to Report.LORD DYNEVOR
: I am informed that the Amendment as proposed by the noble Lord is not proposed at the right place, and it is really a question of drafting. I am afraid I cannot accept it. Of course, if he presses the matter, we shall have to divide about it, but I think it would be more convenient if he would withdraw it now and consider the question on Report. Of course, if he is in favour of pressing it we shall have to settle it by a Division.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: If your Lordships prefer to have it put off to the Report stage and will not go to a Division —LORD DYNEVOR
284: I am afraid that, by a rather disorderly interruption, I am responsible for the suggestion. I can only say this. We are none of us very clear what is the effect of the
284THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Yes.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: May I say that we have an understanding with the Government that the clause will be amended to some extent upon Report.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I admit that it is not clear upon this point and that we shall have an amendment on it.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: From that I think my noble friend may be quite sure that the matter will not be overlooked altogether.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I shall be pleased to accept this Amendment with one slight alteration—namely, that "committee" should be "committees."THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: of course, accept that alteration, and will move accordingly.VISCOUNT GALWAY
286: I am afraid I cannot accept this Amendment. As it is, the Minister has to satisfy himself that the conciliation committee, who have arrived at an agreement, fairly represent employers and employed. Subject to this he will then confirm the agreement and advertise it. I do not see what is to be gained by asking him to consult the agricultural committee before he confirms that order. It may possibly be very disastrous. When the conciliation committee has arrived at terms and asked the Minister to confirm it, some time may elapse before the agricultural committee
286THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Is the case really quite as simple as my, noble friend would make out? He will pardon me if I say that he argued as if the Ministry of Agriculture knew intimately all the circumstances and the varying conditions of every county in England. That is not the case. I have been at the Ministry and I speak with knowledge. They have a good general knowledge, but they have not an intimate knowledge. In my own county, so far as I know, the general feeling is that there should be only one county joint conciliation committee, and therefore the case to which I am going to refer cannot occur there. But some of my friends have told me that they hope there will be several conciliation committees in their counties. If there is no reference to the agricultural committee of a county council in a county like that, you may have one conciliation committee out of half-a-dozen propounding a rate of wages, which the Minister may affirm, with the result of upsetting all the other districts of the county altogether. The strike, which my noble friend fears, will have been caused by the hasty and ignorant (if I may use that word without offence) affirmation of the Minister; whereas if he will go there and have a consultation—and I ask him to remember that this is not a concurrent consultation—the Minister could be assured that they were running no such risk. It seems to me to be a very reasonable Amendment which does not institute any concurrent authority with the Minister but merely takes the precaution that the Ministry knows the facts of the case before it gives its decision.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: I cannot accept the Amendment of the noble Lord, because I am of opinion that it goes too far. I can give a case. Supposing that an employer engaged a man at 40s. a week on a three or six months' engagement, and subsequently the conciliation committee fixed the wage at 42s., I hardly think that that should stand; and I do not think it can be quite justified that the employer should be in the position of getting off paying the extra two shillings agreed upon. There is a point in connection with this, however, where a hardship arises, and I will look into it to see whether we can introduce an Amendment on Report which would deal with the cases of exceptional circumstances. The case I contemplate is that of a fanner who bad entered into an agreement with a workman to pay a certain low wage because the man is lame or otherwise not fit. He has agreed to pay the man, we will say, 35s. for a term. The conciliation committee fix a wage of 40s. and, the farmer having explained the circumstances, the conciliation committee refuse to give an exemption, and insist on the full rate being paid. In such circumstances, I think the employer certainly ought to be able to get out of the bargain, or make some other arrangement.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I put forward this Amendment only for the purpose of ascertaining how far these long engagements were affected by the subsequent decisions of the conciliation committee. What I understand is that they are not affected in any way, and the agreements still stand.LORD CLINTON
289: I take it that the arrangement which exists at the present time will continue, and that it
289THE EARL OF PORTSMOUTH
: Whatever the conciliation committee fixed as the new rate would be the implied rate of the contract When the conciliation committee settled 42s. instead of 40s. the 42s. would be a term of the contract, and that amount would have to be paid.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Although the agreement had been entered into before?LORD CLINTON
: Yes; or, at any rate, he would have to give notice.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I wish my noble friend would make this perfectly clear. The ease I understand Lord Clinton to raise is that of an agreement of three or six months, or a year. Does that agreement hold good, or does it not hold good, if the rate of wages is fixed afterwards? Supposing the rate is fixed afterwards and the rate is then lower than the contract, is the contract altered to the disadvantage of the workmen? And suppose the rate is fixed higher than the contract, is it to remain to the disadvantage of the employer?THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: Yes.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: That is the ease.THE EARL, OF SELBORNE
: Yes.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: In answer to my noble friend behind me, the case of the infirm man is dealt with in the next subsection; that is not the point we are considering now.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: No.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I understand that the answer is, and that we have it clearly now, that if a new rate of wages is fixed, and that new rate is to the advantage of the employee, he gets the advantage of it.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: Yes.TI1E EARL OF ANCASTER
: If it is not to the advantage of the employee it does not affect King?THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: That is the case.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Is not that an extraordinary position? Surely there ought to be one rule for both parties. I should prefer that the arrangement should stand, because it is a definite contract equally affecting both. I do not think it ought to be in favour of the one and against the other.LORD CLINTON
"it shall be an implied term of every contract for the employment after the specified date of a workman of any class to which the agreement applies"—: I am sorry to pursue this subject, but if you look at the wording of the clause, it says—
"it shall be an implied term of every contract for the employment after the specified date of a workman of any class to which the agreement applies"—THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Yes.THE EARL, OF ANCASTER
: But assuming the wages to be lowered, the contract for a considerable period would still hold good?THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Yes.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I should very much like to know how the noble Earl defends that proposition as a reasonable bargain between employer and employed.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Is it not a fact that no such contract as that referred to by Lord Clinton could have been entered into unless a certificate of exemption was granted by the wages boardLORD HASTINGS
: Before this Act was passed—last month.LORD CLINTON
291de novo: Precisely; before this Act was passed. With the dissolution of the wages board and the power which they now possess to establish a certain rate of wages for any part of England, do not their exemption certificates also come to an end and do we not start 291de novoLORD HASTINGS
: I think the noble Lord has missed the point. This may refer to future as much as to existing things. In my own county of Northumberland men are engaged by the year and I hope we shall go on doing it in the future, but in future years there may be a variation at any time; a drop in wages may be agreed to by a conciliation committee in the course of the year. It is the noble Lord's defence on that subject—how he defends the workmen having the advantage of a rise and not the disadvantage of a fall—that we wish to hear.EARL GREY
: I think the answer to the point raised is that the employers would have to agree to that on the conciliation committee before occasion arose. If there is a conciliation committee they would have to agree to the fall unanimously.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I think that would meet the case in Northumberland, because all our men are taken on by the year in a county where they are not all taken on, but only a small proportion, I do not think that would meet the case at all. It would not meet the case of a landowner who took on certain men by the year when the normal practice of the farmers was not to do so.EARL GREY
292Surely that is a case which these conciliation committees would consider. Take a case like that of Lincolnshire, where it is not the usual thing to engage men for the half-year or the year. There is a. hiring for servants every six months, but there are a large number who are only taken on for the week. I should think that state of things exists also in a good many other counties, and I cannot help thinking that a conciliation committee, on which there would be employers perfectly aware of these circumstances, would consider the case of these men engaged for six months, and would be aware that if they lowered
292THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: What does the noble Earl suggest that the conciliation committee would do? There would be an employer who had agreed to pay a certain rate of wages for a period; before that period has elapsed the wages are lowered; does the noble Earl suggest that the wages conciliation committee would make an exemption in favour of a particular employer, because he was placed in a difficult positionTHE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: No, I do not think they would make an exception in an individual case, but I think they might except a certain class of people who had been engaged for six months or for it year.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I agree with the noble Lord that there must be some limit to the time during which a possible claim may be made against the employer. I think my noble friend's argument is correct in that respect. If you lay too great a risk on the employer lie is not likely to engage any number of necessitous cases, but I think six months is too long a period. We are presuming that the parties have agreed, and that for some reason or other the man breaks his agreement because he has found that his wages are too low. But if they are too low, surely he must have found that out long before the period of six months has elapsed. I have an Amendment later which deals with a. somewhat similar subject, and I do not want to go into the full argument now. But I merely state that I think the period of six months would 'really be better reduced to three months, because that is quite sufficient time for a man to know whether he has been badly taken in by an employer or not.LORD CLINTON
: I would like to point out to your Lordships that while six months may sound rather a long time, if a farmer employs an old man and the rate of wages he pays is or below what the conciliation committee settle, 5s. for sir months would only really mean £5 or £6.LORD DYNEVOR
: We will accept the Amendment, if the noble Lord will accept three months instead of six months.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I will agree to that.LORD DYNEVOR
: The Amendment is in the form as printed, subject; to the alteration of"six months"to"three months."THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: I agree that there should be some limitation and if the noble Lord will accept the same period as Lord Dynevor, and make it three months, instead of six weeks, I shall be pleased to accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
296: One feels reluctant, in discussing a matter of this kind, to have the appearance of arguing against a workman having a reasonable right to recover where he has been over-persuaded, perhaps by his employer, to accept a lower rate than the rate of wages prescribed by the conciliation committee. I should be the last man to desire to have the appearance of being in any way against the agricultural working class. But what is in my mind is really the interests of the agricultural class. I know of a large number of men, perhaps abnormal is not the right phrase to use, less efficient workmen who have worked for me, and I have no doubt for many of your Lordships. It does not matter so much to the fairly rich man.
296THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: At the high rate?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
297: No doubt; the noble Earl is very fair in his comments. But he will recognise that the mischief will exist, though in a lesser form, under the provision as the Government have proposed to agree to it. I would plead for these less efficient workmen. They are in a pitiful case up and down the country. W by should they not have a fair chance of being employed They really earn a less rate of wages, without that' risk hanging over the employer's
297THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: It is very difficult to resist this appeal, but, there are two points which I should like noble Lords to consider. We have conceded that three months should be the period for suing, and I think that the period for recovering wages should be the same. The noble Marquess makes out a great case for the enfeebled or the incapacitated man, who will be thrown out of employment because people will be afraid of employing him at a lesser wage. I should like noble Lords to understand that the employer who is afraid that he might be sued later on, and have to pay this considerable amount, can always get out of the difficulty by sending the agreement to the conciliation board and asking them to consider the case. I think that will meet the case to a very large extent. It is very hard to resist the Amendment, but, in view of those two facts, I should much prefer three months instead of six weeks.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I hope the noble Earl will depart from his present attitude. He talks as if every small farmer and small holder is going to know every detail of this Act when it has passed both Houses of Parliament. They are going do nothing of the sort. Noble Lords have been talking gaily of 40s. a week and 35s. a week. The country, in the next few months, is possibly going to be faced not only with the great agricultural crisis to which Lord Clinton referred, but also, very likely, owing to the rate of taxation, with absolute disaster. I beg the noble Earl to reconsider the question of these old men, who are very likely enittlop7d by the poorer farmers, to whom £3 or; £4, or £.5 is a very great consideration. It is not a question to my mind of whether a man is going to be employed at the rate of 30s., or 40s., or 50s. a week, but of whether he is going to be employed at all.LORD HINDLIP
298: I hope the Government will not give way to this
298THE EARL OF PORTSMOUTH
: Of course there is no difficulty in getting a permit if the farmer applies for it. But the difficulty is that the farmers in the majority of cases do not take the trouble. The noble Earl in charge of the Bill says it is quite easy to apply to the conciliation committee, but that is not going to be. in permanent session. Very likely it will not meet more than once a month, and if an old man comes along the day after a. meeting it will be impossible to get a permit for allot her month. I hope the. Amendment will be accepted.EARL GREY
: May I also plead with the noble Earl to give way on this Amendment.? In villages in the neighbourhood in which I live I know of not a few but a dozen old men who have been discharged because the farmers are unable to pay them a rate of wage which they are not worth. In every one of those cases a permit could be obtained, but that would involve trouble and expense, and the farmers will not go to that trouble and expense, quite apart from the odium which these applications bring upon them from the local Labourers' Union. They prefer to take the least line of resistance, which is to dispense with the services of these old men. The result is pitiable, and I plead with the Government on behalf of these old men, who are invaluable on the farms and who must live, and who deserve to live, on the farms. Anything which your Lordships can do to make it easy for these men to be employed is well worth doing, and from that point of view I beg the noble Earl to give way.LORD HASTINGS
: The next is a drafting Amendment.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I do not think that this Amendment is necessary. These committees are purely voluntary bodies, and, if they agree, they may appoint a chairman. If they know of no suitable man, and yet require someone to bring them together and prevent a strike, they "may agree to such an appointment being made by any Government Department or other body." They have got to agree to it; it is no question of a Government Department trying to force their nominee on these committees. it is a question for the committee alone.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
300: I agree, if the case were as the noble Earl points out. But I do not
300EARL GREY
: Surely my noble friend is misreading, the clause. The object of these words is to give complete liberty and flexibility to these committees ill relation to the selection of chairman. The subsection at first says that they may appoint, if they please, an independent person to act as chairman. If they do not do that, they may agree to ask the Government to appoint a chairman.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: No.SEVERAL NOBLE LORDS
"or may agree to such an appointment being made by any Government Department or other body.": The subsection says.—
"or may agree to such an appointment being made by any Government Department or other body."THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: It is hard to apprehend the purpose of these words. One may assume that if any Department is applied to for nomination of a chairman it will be the Ministry of Agriculture. It is hardly to be supposed that the Admiralty or the Royal Mint would be applied to for this purpose. I do not understand why the noble Earl cannot agree to omit the words altogether, as I cannot think that the conciliation committees would require this degree of guidance.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: It reduces their liberty of action. But if the noble Marquess wants to do that the words can come out.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Will these words do— or may apply for such appointment to be made"?EARL GREY
It would seem that those who sit on the front bench opposite are not arguing from the same stand-point as those who sit on this side of the House. The noble Earl in charge of the Bill said that this actual process might arise when the members of the conciliation committee failed to agree—meaning thereby, not upon the chairman, but on the matter under discussion by the committee —and feared that a strike or something of the sort might occur.LORD BLEDISLOE
: Hear, hear.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
ad hocad hoc: That is a totally different condition to that which would arise when they came to appoint a permanent chairman who would sit continuously with theist as their chairman. It looks to me as though both conditions ought to be provided for. It is quite possible that they nine at the outset select a chairman to sit continuously with them, to use his moderating influence and to enable them to come to an agreement on questions of wages. On the, other hand, some committees may not agree to appoint a chairman and may sit without one. But they may fail on occasion to agree on a matter of substance in relation to wages, and in order to avoid a strike may call in some outside personad hocad hocLORD BLEDISLOE
: If the noble Lord is anxious to have those words, I will accept them.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I am afraid I cannot accept this Amendment. One of the objects of the Bill is this. If the committee wish to appoint a chairman they shall be allowed to appoint a chairman and to do so under what conditions they please. It is quite obvious, I should think, that there will be occasions on which the representatives of the employers alai of the employed will not agree and will reach a deadlock. They will then say: "Let us have a chairman in. Let us appoint a chairman to try to bring us together." It may be the opinion of the committee that the chairman should act only as a kind of go between, to keep order and to try to bring them together. Again, the committee may consider that it would be better to have a chairman who could vote. If such a chairman was appointed he would practically act as an arbitrator.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: He would.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: We do not want to stop that. We wish to encourage it. If these two parties cannot come together or come to terms, it is quite possible and reasonable that they would say: "We cannot agree amongst ourselves; let us call somebody in to act between us." You may call him a chairman, but he would act as an arbitrator-chairman with a vote. He would be in the position of an arbitrator, of course, and I think it would be a thousand pities to prevent such a thing taking place.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Does not the noble Earl think that if the committee find it difficult to agree on the point at issue, they will find difficult to agree on the chairmanTHE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I am not very well acquainted with councils and trade disputes in the past, but I know it is not an unusual thing in trade disputes to call in someone to act as chairman and as conciliator. I do not know exactly what power he has. I believe there was a case in the county in which I live where a dispute took place between certain manufacturers and their workpeople, and an independent chairman was called in. It was in the town of Perth, and I think I am right in saying that they went outside themselves and called in a member of your Lordships' House to act as arbitrator between them. The noble Lord who was thus called in had practically no interest or knowledge of the trade, or of that particular dispute. They looked upon him as an impartial person. I do not think that is an unreasonable way sometimes of bringing people together. In this case, the committees need not adopt it unless both parties agree.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: If you once allow the chairman to have a vote, it will seldom happen that the two parties will agree. The chairman, when they do not agree, will be the person who has to fix the rate of wages. That seems to me to be a very dangerous thing to allow. If it is to be a conciliation board, it would be much better that the wages should be agreed to by the respective parties. If you allow the chairman to come in and have a casting vote, it will be the worst form of settling a wage dispute that you could have. The chairman would either be a partisan of one side or the other, or he would draw a middle line between the parties, and give a decision which would give satisfaction to no one.VISCOUNT GALWAY
304: I cannot too strongly support what my noble friend, Lord Galway, has said, and I implore the Government to believe that in this matter we want exactly the same thing as they do. We want these conciliation committees to be a great success. Of what are the Government running the risk if you appoint a chairman without a casting vote? You have in that case an element of permanent
304THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: The noble Earl does not mind an arbitrator so long as he is not called chairman?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I am talking of the standing chairman of the committee.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: These committees are complete masters of I their own procedure.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: You are giving them a lead here.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: Not a lead, but an option. The whole object is to make these committees as flexible and as autonomous as possible. The whole object of noble Lords during the last twenty minutes has been to limit, curtail, and impair the freedom of these committees. I think that is a great pity. Just now we excluded words entitling these committees, if they thought fit, to appeal to the Government or to their county council to find a chairman for them.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: They can do it if they choose. You have given them leave.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: Having stated in the Bill that they shall have leave to do it, and than having cut out those words from the Bill, I assume your Lordships do not mean them to have or to exercise that power. That is curtailing their power.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: It is a chairman with a vote.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: If they want to have a chairman with a vote, why should they not?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I think it is very dangerous.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: May I give an experience? This is not a new problem. Lord Crewe very well remembers the crisis of 1893, when Lord Rosebery came in as chairman not with an official vote but technically with voting power. Having settled the great coal strike, conciliation committees were set up all over the country covering the Federated Area, with possibly a. small exception in Scotland. For twenty years we had exactly the same procedure laid down there. Both parties met with an independent chairman —Lord St. Aldwyn was a chairman for years—with complete power to vote. Lord Selborne says each party puts forward its extreme claim. Of course it does. Each party is equally going to put forward its extreme claim if the chairman has not a vote.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I do not think so.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
306: Nobody diminishes his claims just because the chairman has or has not a vote. People in commerce put forward their maximum claims, and they do not diminish their claims on a point of etiquette. If we allow these committees to do what they please they will do the right thing. In some cases they will give their chairman a vote; in other cases they will refuse it; but they will have the responsibility. What we want is to make these people have that full sense of responsibility of authority not to make the county council a court of appeal as was suggested just
306THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
307: I cannot help thinking that the analogy which the noble Earl has just mentioned, although an interesting one, fails if it is applied to this particular matter. In order to find what would be called an impartial person in this matter of agriculture, it would have to mean that some person altogether unconnected with the land in every relation had to be brought in as chairman in the sort of case which the noble Earl mentions. That is not, I take it, contemplated by His Majesty's Government or by those who considered this matter of agricultural committees. It would be assumed, I think, that a person who was called in to give advice or to make a decision upon the rate of wages would be a person who, from one standpoint or another, was skilled in agricultural matters. if he is not, I confess I am rather, sorry for him if he should attempt to come to a conclusion on the rate of wages.307THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: It seems to me that the whole question of conciliation in agriculture is being lost sight of. It does not matter a brass farthing whether coal is dug in June or July. But in agriculture the object of these committees is to avoid strikes. If there is to be delay in the appointment of the chairman, the cows have still to be milked and the harvest gathered. These things cannot wait. I do not see how in an emergency the chairman is going to do very much good at all.LORD HINDLIP
: I think it would be much better for the chairman not to have a vote. Many cases will occur which will have to be referred to the chairman. If the committee had power to call in an arbitrator they would generally settle the questions themselves before they did so. It would be much better that the chairman should be independent without a vote; otherwise, everything will be referred to.LORD ORAWSHAW
: Let me emphasise in one sentence the point that the Earl of Crawford appears to have missed. There is all the difference in the world between an organisation which consists of two, and an organisation which consists of three. That is the real difference. Employers have one consolidated vote, and the employees have one consolidated vote. That is, there are two votes. If the chairman has a vote, that will make three votes. In the two-vote system you must have agreement. Otherwise there will be a deadlock. That is the whole theory of conciliation, that you should get them to agree. Then there is the impartial chairman, who says:"You must come to some arrangement. I suggest this and that." That is conciliation. When you have three votes it is a question of a majority, and you will not get conciliation at all.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I agree to this.THE EARL OF ANCASTEB
: I ant afraid I cannot: accept this Amendment. This is not the practice in all the Whitley Councils; and the practice laid in the Bill appears to be absolutely consistent with the principles of collective bargaining. To have a go-as-you-phrase' vote on these questions would not, I think, be satisfactory. I hope the noble Lord will not press his Amendment, which is quite contrary to all the practice of 'Whitley Councils of a similar nature.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
310en bloc: I can appreciate the position of the noble Earl, lint at the same time I cannot help regretting that His Majesty's Government are not able to give more of a hearing to this proposal. It is, of course, a well understood system in the workmen's organisations that every man comes as a delegate, and with the absolute necessity laid upon him of supporting a certain line of action. It has it been the practice with regard to other organisations. It would be difficult, for instance—I mention it casually—for the Central Landowners' Association, supposing they were represented on the committees by three or four members, to expect every member to say absolutely "ditto'' to the others. It would be contrary even to our Party practice. Those who are most obedient to the Party whips from time to time feel entitled at any rate to make an exhibition of independence, even if they do not carry it very far, and it is, I think, very unfortunate that in this matter tile practice of voting 310en blocTHE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I have made my protest against the system and I do not press my Amendment.LORD BLEDISLOE
: I hardly think that the noble Earl is making a reasonable suggestion. He wants us now late in the day, to make inquiries.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: It is not our fault that we have got such little time.EARL GREY
: This Matter has hen before the consideration of the country for a considerable period.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: The whole principle of compulsion was put in on the last. clay in the House. of Commons.EARL GREY
: It had been given a good deal of consideration by the Farmers' Union and the workers' unions for some time, and we had not received any information that Northumberland wished to be left out. While the noble Earl himself confesses that he knows nothing about the throe other counties. I really do not know why the partition of England should begin at this Period. It would be perfectly easy for a noble Lord to rise and move that the county of Kent, or Lincoln, or Lancashire should be left out. We have had no information that the situation in these four counties is the same as it is in Scotland. Therefore, we do not see that there is any special case for making an exception. There is, of course, the case that in these northern counties it is more customary for men to be engaged for longer periods—for a half-year or a. year.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: They are all engaged for the whole year.EARL GREY
: Is there no la Lour employed at all.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Very little; no noire than thee is in Scotland.EARL GREY
: I am not wishing to make a difference in regard to Scotland. I am only asking whether t here is any casual labour in the northern counties. If, as the noble Lord says every body is engaged by the year, the conciliation committees set up in those counties will be well aware of the fact and will make terms as to wages and so on in conformity with the understanding that most of the men there are engaged for long periods. It is hardly fair to ask the Government at this time to except certain counties, and fear we cannot accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
313bona fideahad on the Paper an Amendment in subsection (10) (313bona fideaVISCOUNT GALWAY
: I understand that the Government accept the words"or woodland," and I suggest to the noble Viscount that he should move the deletion of"or orchard or osier-land "first, and I will call en him afterwards in regard to the others.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: I beg to do that.VISCOUNT GALWAY
314: As I have already stated, I ant prepared to omit "woodland," but as to the next I am afraid I cannot accept the Amendment. The definition of agriculture is the same as in the Act of 1917. It is not an innovation to put in these words. I should say that there are a large number of people employed regularly in orchards, osier-land and market gardens, and it is almost impossible to differentiate them from agricultural workers. Take, for instance, a large seed merchant who grows his seed. Why should he be allowed to employ people at a lower rate of wages than the farmers around him? The same applies to market gardens. I cannot conceive why, if a rate of wages is to be made in a district, the Market gardener should riot pay the same rate of wages in that district as the farmers have to pay.314THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I take it that "nursery grounds" means any private nursery on an estate. On a large estate a number of the foresters will put in a day or two in the nursery. Would they come under this beading? Take the case of what happens in unemployed insurance. Woodcutters and foresters are not supposed to come.under the unemployed insurance, but the Department tries to contend that if a. forester puts in a day or two, or even a few hours, in a saw mill, he must come under the insurance. Though it would be useful to have woodlands excluded, that would not quite meet the case.THE DUKE OF BUCCLEUCH
: I think I can give the noble Lord that assurance. I am informed that nursery grounds do not mean places in which you are growing young trees, but it moans places where seed merchants and people of that description follow their calling. I think in those circumstances they come under the same heading as market gardeners, and I think it would be a pity to leave them out.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: May I suggest, that on the Report stage the noble Earl should put in some such words as "other than woodland nurseries," which would make it quite clear that it does not include the nurseries to which Lord Clinton referred?LORD BLEDISLOE
: I am not quite certain how the subsection will read. I will promise the noble Lord to put in words on the Report stage excepting woodlands.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I want to pre-vent such a case being taken to the Courts to decide whether woodlands are agriculture or not. I am informed that these words will make it quite certain.LORD DYNEVOR
: I will accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
316: Before we leave Clause 4 I should like to ask how the
316LORD BLEDISLOE
: Their expenses will be met by their organisations.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
318: I think the description of my noble friend of Section 15 is quite a fair one. When the Act of 1920 was before the House, these Regulations were
318LORD CLINTON
: I imagine my noble friend only wishes to repeal subsections (1) and (2). The latter part of this section deals with the Evesham Custom, which is a different matter altogether, and none of us want to interfere with it.LORD BLEDISLOE
319: In reply to the last speaker, I think the Amendment does touch the subsection dealing with the Evesham Custom, but I will deal mainly with the Amendment as it relates to Orders to move these improvements from one schedule to another. I may say at once that it is utterly impossible fur the Government to accept the Amendment. It is entirely outside the scope of the Bill, and the noble Lord fully recognises that, because he has put down a consequential Amendment to alter the Title of the Bill. I would really suggest to the noble Lord 'that if he has such a great grievance his proper course is to bring in a Bill, or get other people interested in this matter to bring in a Bill, amending Part II of the Act. I do not know whether he wishes me to enter into the whole question of the rights
319THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I beg to move the Amendment standing in my name.LORD STRACHIE
: I was not referring to the noble Earl. I desire to press my Amendment.LORD STRACHIE
: I do not know why the noble Earl says that. I took the ordinary means of finding out what the procedure of the House was in the matter and I was advised to do as I have done.LORD STRACHIE
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion which appears on the Paper in reference to this Bill. The Bill contains several Amendments which have all been settled by agreement.LORD SOMERLEYTON
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion standing in my name.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DON OUGHMORE)
: My Lords, in moving that the Committee stage be negatived, I should like to say that this Bill has been before a joint Committee of both Houses of Parliament.EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motion which stands on the Paper with reference to this Bill.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: I beg to move that the Commons Amendments he now considered.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I beg to move that the Commons Amendments be agreed to. They are all of a drafting character.
Moved accordingly, and, on Question, Motion agreed to.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, I desire to call attention to one part of the Bill. Possibly the noble Viscount may say that it is more a matter for Committee than for Second Reading, but I submit, very respect-fully, that it is a fundamental point. I am referring to the composition of the tribunals.LORD HARRIS
335: Yes, They are statutory bodies, I understand, and they have hitherto been composed of a representative of the Services— that is an ex-Service titan—a member of the medical profession, and a member of the legal profession. That seems to be a very fair distribution of the points of view which might be directed towards an inquiry as to whether a man was deserving of an increase of pension, or of a pension at all, or of a final pension. Now, as I read the Bill, it is proposed to alter the composition of that tribunal, and to do away with the member of it who has had a legal training. Hitherto, that has been the chairman, and it is proposed to substitute for that member with a legal training a second member of the medical profession. We who have had experience of Private? Bill legislation in this House know how very easy it is to find experts who differ, and it is doubtful whether it is quite wise, where a man's future is concerned, to have two members of the same profession, with a chance of their differing and leaving the unfortunate ex-Service man in the position of having to decide between them. If he decides in favour of the man, it will inevitably be said that he is partial. It is open to question whether that proposal is wise.335LORD HARRIS
347346: My Lords, it is a matter of common agreement, no doubt, with the whole House, that there could be no question of opposing the Second Reading of this Bill, and I am one of the last people who would be likely to offer it opposition, because since I have had an opportunity of watching from the outside the work of the Control Board I have reached the conclusion that, for some time to come, the better line of advance for
347346THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
348: My Lords, I should like to make one observation, not so much about the Bill itself, but as regards tine very loose phraseology which is used about the Bill in the public Press and elsewhere. It is constantly referred to as a"closing movement." It is not a"closing movement." The Bill does not give any power to close a public house; it simply limits the hours during which intoxicating liquors may be sold. The experience of Justices during the war was, no doubt, the sane as mine—namely, that the publican assumed that he had the right, to close his house. Perhaps it did not matter very much during the war. The traffic on the roads was very much reduced, so far as the ordinary public was concerned. But now that the roads are in constant use I must deprecate the idea which is getting about that it is the right of the publican to close his house at all hours of the day. All that this Bill does is to limit his right to sell intoxicating liquors, and his licence
348LORD HARRIS
344343"I trust that the Christian Churches will not be satisfied merely that you bring pressure to bear upon the Government, but that they will exercise all the necessary pressure upon Parliament to carry through the measure, to see that it is not emasculated in the course of its progress through Committee, and, if it is capable of improvements, that those improvements will be effected."" Beneficent results have been accomplished by the restrictions imposed during the war. The very remarkable book which has been published by Mr. Carter is in itself a testimony to the admirable work done by the Board, of which he is such an able associate. I think it is very important that the work of the Board should be perpetuated, and the first step, I think, before we come to legislation of a more far-reaching character, is to prevent this work from lapsing. Unless legislation is passed to perpetuate the powers of the Board, they would lapse, I think, within twelve months after the war. It is, therefore, proposed to introduce legislation in order to deal with that matter … I am glad to be able to say that a great measure of agree-meat has been already achieved. Commissions will be set up eider this Bill, if Parliament approves, and I an, very sanguine of being able to seen the assent of parliament for the setting up of these Commissions. The Bill is ready and will be introduced before Christmas—342341bona fide340: My Lords. I hope the Bill will receive a Second Reading without question, and I imagine that its prospects of becoming law are fairly secure. The time has come when some Bill on this subject must be introduced and passed into law, even if it is a measure of a temporary character only. It was necessary within a few months that something new Should be placed on the Statute Book if we were to avert the calamity either that the Licensing Laws would be in a condition of chaos, or that we should have reverted to the
344343"I trust that the Christian Churches will not be satisfied merely that you bring pressure to bear upon the Government, but that they will exercise all the necessary pressure upon Parliament to carry through the measure, to see that it is not emasculated in the course of its progress through Committee, and, if it is capable of improvements, that those improvements will be effected."" Beneficent results have been accomplished by the restrictions imposed during the war. The very remarkable book which has been published by Mr. Carter is in itself a testimony to the admirable work done by the Board, of which he is such an able associate. I think it is very important that the work of the Board should be perpetuated, and the first step, I think, before we come to legislation of a more far-reaching character, is to prevent this work from lapsing. Unless legislation is passed to perpetuate the powers of the Board, they would lapse, I think, within twelve months after the war. It is, therefore, proposed to introduce legislation in order to deal with that matter … I am glad to be able to say that a great measure of agree-meat has been already achieved. Commissions will be set up eider this Bill, if Parliament approves, and I an, very sanguine of being able to seen the assent of parliament for the setting up of these Commissions. The Bill is ready and will be introduced before Christmas—342341bona fide340THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
: Perhaps I may be allowed to say one word in reply to what my noble friend, Lord Harris, has said. These appeal tribunals, as regards making permanent these assessments for pensions—of course, they did not deal with permanent cases before—were composed of a doctor, a lawyer, and an ex-Service man. I believe in many cases the questions brought before them were of a. semi-medical and a semi-legal nature, so that they required the assistance of these gentlemen. But now I understand the case will be rather different. They will really have nothing to do but to settle the permanent disability of these ex-Service men. The questions will be purely medical ones, and I think your Lordships will see that, if the questions are purely medical, the lawyer, however valuable he may be on most occasions, will be of no value whatever, because he will not be able to set up his medical opinion against the doctor's. It is much better that it should be predominantly a medical tribunal. I do not know whether that statement will meet what my noble friend has suggested.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I will consider the matter as the noble Marquess presses it, but I understand that these questions will really hardly arise. It will not be so much whether this case falls within one department or another of the Act or of a rule, but as to what, is the actual medical condition of the man himself. But I will confer further with the Minister of Pensions, as the noble Lord has raised the question.VISCOUNT PEEL
339bone fidebona-fide338337: My Lords, this Bill, called the Licensing (No. 2) Bill, arose as the result. of a suggestion made by the Attorney-General in another place, that it would be as well if persons of varying opinions upon licensing questions should meet together and try to agree upon sonic common basis for a Bill. I understand that this Committee did meet. It was composed of extremists on both sides and a. certain number of other persons, and this Bill is really the result of the Committee's deliberations and it is in the nature, so far as any Bill can be, of an agreed Bill. It really embodies the sifting of all the experience which has been gained by the Control Board so far as that experience may apply to a post-war period. But I should like to say this to your Lordships. The Bill is a very nice equipoise, which may be very easily disturbed. I hope, therefore, that your Lordships will not apply to this Bill quite that severity of logic which you are accustomed to use, but will consider that the Bill is a compromise and has to be treated with that peculiar logic which is applicable to compromises.339bone fidebona-fide338337VISCOUNT PEEL
: The appeal tribunals?VISCOUNT PEEL
332331: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be now read a second time. I have had the pleasure of introducing into this House many Bills, and I think I can recommend this one as being a really useful and good Bill, which will tend to administrative simplicity and to economy. It is based, mainly, on the recommendations of a very representative Committee, which was presided over by the Under-Secretary for Pensions, and which unanimously recommended, I believe, the proposals that are embodied in the Bill.332331THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
345: My Lords, before this Bill is read a second time I should like to refer to a point in the measure which is of
345LORD CLWYD
en bloc349: My Lords, with regard to the Motion standing in my name with respect to this Order, perhaps ought to say one word as there are several Amendments which it is necessary to submit for the approval of Parliament.en bloc349LORD SOMERLEYTON
336: think if my noble friend will look at the clause he will see that in the first subsection the Minister has a very wide power, which may be open to question in Committee, of prescribing the principles upon which any such awards are to be made. That clearly goes very far beyond the actual medical condition of the particular
336THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
334: My Lords, I do not rise with the intention of opposing this Bill, but for another specific object. I have no doubt the Bill is very much wanted, and will remove many of the difficulties under which we have suffered. Each succeeding Minister has endeavoured to settle questions that have occasioned a great deal of difficulty, and I hope this Bill will prove a satisfactory solution. There is one protest that I should like to make. The noble Viscount talked of the evaporation of interest by local committees. My experience is that so far from the interest of local committees evaporating their interest has increased as time goes I cannot speak too highly of the support that the Minister has always received from local committees and local sub-committees in the county with which I am connected.334THE EARL OF DARTMOUTH
: The noble and learned Viscount will forgive me. I put a Very simple Question to the Lord Chancellor, and in accordance with the Orders of your Lordships' House, I did not make any speech in connection with it; and I did not submit any arguments. I do not complain of the Lord Chancellor taking Otis opportunity to make a statement on the Government's because I think such a statement has been much too long delayed, but I should have preferred to have stated my own arguments myself rather than to have heard them stated by the Lord Chancellor.THE MARQUESS OF SALSBURY
367366apologia: My Lords, I do not wish to engage in any long discussion, but as I find myself a Warm supporter of His Majesty's Government in their present attitude towards 'Ireland, I think.I ought perhaps, to say a word before this informal discussion closes. To go back for a moment to the speech to which the noble and learned Viscount alluded, the speech that, he made from the Woolsack a week ago, and for he made, not an apology, but an367366apologiaTHE MARQUESS OF CREWE
a407"This repeal shall not prejudice or affect the power to take any proceedings in relation to payments in respect of the wheat and oats of the year nineteen hundred and twenty-one—"a: Before the noble Earl moves his Amendment to Clause 1 there is a question I desire to put to him, of which I have given him private notice, with regard to proviso (a407"This repeal shall not prejudice or affect the power to take any proceedings in relation to payments in respect of the wheat and oats of the year nineteen hundred and twenty-one—"aLORD CLINTON
ba: My Lords, I think I had better make a short statement in reply as to the effect of the clause. The Acts of 1917 and 1920 enable the person who is the occupier on September 1 to make a claim for the guarantee and the repeal does not take effect until October 1. It is clear that by the date of the repeal the claim will have accrued. Under the Interpretation Act, 1889, such right is preserved, notwithstanding the repeal. The power to take any proceedings in respect of a claim is further dealt with in paragraph (baTHE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY of THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: I am much obliged to my noble friend for his reply. One can only wish that it were rather more clearly stated in the language of this Bill.LORD CLINTON
: My Lords, I, for my part, welcome the noble Earl's Amendment, but I should like to draw attention to the fact that it does riot go nearly so far in this respect—LORD BLEDISLOE
: You have an Amendment on that subject later on, have you not?THE EARL OF ANCASTER
410sonchus: I want, if I may, to explain it. I shall only take two minutes, and then I shall not give any trouble hereafter. I should like to point out that the Amendment of the noble Lord, Lord Dynevor, went further, because it enabled the Minister of Agriculture to schedule from time to time lists of injurious weeds, by Order which should lie on the Table of both Houses. As it is, this Amendment anticipates a schedule which contains weeds of five descriptions, only. There are two varieties of thistle, two of dock, and the large variety of groundsel which is generally known as ragwort.410sonchusLORD BLEDISLOE
: My Lords, I was responsible for the words in the Bill which my noble friend wishes to be substituted for other words. The noble Earl does not think that my words would quite meet the case. I am not quite sure that they would not have done so, but I notice that the noble Earl is later on going to move a most Herculean schedule. I do not wish to deprive him of the pleasure of moving that schedule, and I therefore agree to his proposal.LORD DYNEVOR
: My Lords, I am one of those who think that it is a great pity that this matter has been put into the Bill. I think several of us believed that my noble friend opposite intended to divide the House on it. He did not seem to think, however, that he would obtain sufficient support. From the two speakers whom we have heard, I gather that this goes considerably further than was originally intended. My noble friend opposite said that this would involve a large number of officials going all over the country. Primarily, as I understand this Bill, it is intended to repeal the control of agriculture, whereas the Amendment proposed seems to me to continue the control. Again, if it is going to be at all effective, it means a very large number of officials. I think your Lordships will agree that all these weeds are most undesirable, but it is a very great pity that this has been introduced in the Bill.THE DUKE OF BUCCLEUCH
412411: My Lords, I rather thought, when this Amendment was before the Committee, that it was one which was absolutely forced upon the Government without very much consideration. Of course, I am merely a young member of this House, but I have seen certain noble Lords opposite perpetually criticising the Government, and they very often do so on the score of expenditure. The whole reason why this Bill is before the House at all, or is under amendment, is entirely a question of expense. The Government, as I understand it, entered into a contract with the farmers, the condition precedent of which was that the Government were to pay certain guarantees, and in return for
412411LORD ABINGER
413: My Lords, the noble Lord who has just spoken has quoted me, but he has quoted me incorrectly. I never said that county councils would do the work through inspectors, but through the agricultural members of the county councils, who, in their own districts, would know of the flagrant cases which had to be dealt with. If the duty is entrusted to the agricultural committees of the county councils, a very great reform will be effected at very small expense. It is very seldom that I differ on anything from the noble Duke, who first of all opposed this proposal. I ask your Lordships to consider what the state of affairs really is at the present moment. This is the only civilised country in the world in which a slovenly farmer may flood his neighbour's land with every kind of hideous weed, the seed of which is wind-borne. There is not only the slovenly farmer, but there are the railway embankments, of which perhaps the noble Duke knows something, and the wide borders of the roads, for which the local authorities are responsible. At the present moment, you may have a first-rate farm on one side of the hedge, and, on the other, yards and yards of thistles on land belonging to the local authority. And this is the only country in the world in which such a state of things could exist. After all, because some of your Lordships object to control in one form, it is not necessary that you should object to control in another form. You do not object to control which prevents your neighbour from infecting you with some horrible disease, and why
413THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: My Lords, I think that the noble Earl is correct. I do not see where the great expense comes in. It is very well known in the district where the slovenly farmers are, and all you have to do is to write to the authority and they send -down, and then I believe the expense of pulling up the noxious weeds falls upon the slovenly farmer himself.THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
: Yes, on the delinquent.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: The Government are prepared to accept the Amendment in its present form, and I will convey to my right hon. friend the message of thanks from the noble Lord.LORD STANMORE
: The next Amendment is consequential.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
interim: My Lords, in view of what the noble Lord has said I do not think it necessary to argue this Amendment. The Minister does intend to take whatever steps he thinks best adapted to get conciliation committees established, and, with that object in view, he has already bad a meeting of the secretaries of the existing district wages boards in order to consult with them and in order to get these conciliation committees started all over the country. He has made a special point that it is most important that theinterimTHE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I do not wish to press the Amendment.LORD BLEDISLOE
421interiminterim420: My Lords, I have listened with much interest to the arguments which the noble Lord brought forward in support of his Amendment, which he also moved during the Committee stage. I am afraid I can only repeat to a large extent what I said on that occasion and state, first of all, that the Ministry are unable to take the same view as he does
421interiminterim420THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: My Lords, I do not altogether follow the noble Earl opposite when he says that the Minister would have nothing to do with the formation of these conciliation committees. I think the noble Earl can scarcely have remembered the terms of the Bill when he said that, because the Minister is to "take such steps—"THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Quite so.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Taking steps mast have, some meaning. What is he going to do?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: He is taking steps now.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
interim: I am sure he is. He is also to take steps at the end of two years, because he is to take steps for the formation of these voluntary bodies after theinterimTHE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: He will consult the organised bodies.THE EARL of ANGASTER
423ex cathedra422: Certainly he will consult the organised bodies.423ex cathedra422THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: In the County of Durham I believe they are all Labour members.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I do not despise Labour members quite in the way members of the Government do. I am speaking not of the County of Durham, to which I have not the honour to belong, but of the County of Hertfordshire, to which I have the honour to belong, and I say that these agricultural committees have in many respects done a great deal of good, and they do represent the local feeling. They will prevent this bureaucratic influence from the centre acting beyond measure, and going in wrong directions. Whatever power is conferred upon the Minister by this clause—and, although the words are carefully chosen, it is considerable power—that power will be much more safely exercised after consultation with, and, if necessary, the concurrence of, the agricultural committee, than if the Minister were left to act alone.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
424: My Lords, I think the noble Marquess who has just sat down hit the right nail on the head, although he did not attack it in precisely the way that I should have done myself. I am not specially anxious to see the county agricultural committees included in this business. But I am prepared to support the suggestion of my noble friend, Lord Selborne, that they should be included, for the reasons given by the noble Marquess who has just spoken. If subsection (1) could be omitted altogether, and if the Minister was not introduced into the picture at all until the committees have been formed and entrusted with the power shown in the latter part of subsection (3), I should be quite content, and should not attempt to introduce the agricultural committees. But I think that they will in most cases—certainly in the agricultural counties—act as a necessary corrective to the over-centralisation which appears also to be encouraged in this subsection (1).424THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, I think Lord Crewe concedes that somebody must take the initiative, and probably it is wise that the Ministry of Agriculture, which is in permanent session, so to speak, with its own skilled staff, should bear that responsibility. I do not know if Lord Crewe meant to sugggest that the initiative should rest with the county councils.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: No. Perhaps I might explain, if I did not make myself clear. As proposed by the Bill, persons who are members of the district committee are to remain for two years, or until a committee is formed. I should assume that, in the great majority of counties, within those two years committees would be formed. The committees no doubt, in the first instance, will be very largely composed, as I think His Majesty's Government admit, of the same persons who now form the district wages board, and I should be prepared to leave that to the counties.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
425: I will not press that too far. It is clear that someone must take the initial responsibility. There must be some experienced person, or body, to bring the parties together, and to arrange the hundred and one details which will arise about, for instance, overlapping borders, the amalgamation of different parts of counties, the water-sheds, and many other things. These things will never be done if left to voluntary bodies. There are lots of people who would like to drop these things altogether, and would do so unless there is somebody
425THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
426: My Lords, I am bound to say that my great fear in this connection is that the Ministry may now or
426LORD BLEDISLOE
427: My Lords, I sincerely hope that this Amendment
427THE EARL OF KIMBERLEY
428: My Lords, I hope you will grant me your indulgence. This is a matter in which I have been personally interested because I have been a member of the wages committee of Devonshire, and also a member of the agricultural committee. I sincerely hope that this Amendment will be defeated, because, in the first place, it will press very hardly on the agricultural labourer. I have in my hand a list of the members of the agricultural committee of which I am a member, which shows that twenty-eight are nominated by the county council, two are agricultural labourers, two are ladies, and there are sixteen additional members. Only two out of forty-eight are agricultural labourers, and represent the interests of the agricultural labouring class. If this Amendment is carried, therefore, it will press very hardly on the agricultural labourers of a big agricultural county like Devonshire.428THE EARL OF PORTSMOUTH
: My Lords, I very much regret I am not able to support my noble friend, Lord Selborne. I think he is aware that on this question I did not support hint in Committee. I sincerely hope your Lordships will not let this Amendment pass, because it will undermine the whole principle of the conciliation committees and the freedom and latitude which is given them by the Bill which I am most anxious to retain.LORD DYNEVOR
: My Lords, one reason given for the Amendment is the difficulty as to what would happen under the Bill if the Labour Party came into power. I am not qualified to speak for Labour, but I fancy if a Labour Party did come into power the first thing they would do would be to set up an agricultural wages board, and in that I think they would have the sympathy of a very large and influential section of the population.THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
: My Lords, the next Amendment in my name is drafting.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: My Lords, as I was responsible for moving out the obnoxious subsection may I say that I see no objection to the present modification. As the district wages committees have been in existence for some time it will be necessary to allow them to make these alterations if they so desire.LORD BLEDISLOE
: The next Amendment is drafting.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: The next Amendment is consequential.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: The next Amendment is drafting.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: My Lords, perhaps this will be a convenient moment for me to put a question to the noble Earl as to what is included in the term "wages"; whether anything more is meant than a money wage. Whether legally or not, the wages hoards did deal with something else. They dealt with cottage rents, and I want to be clear whether any power is given under this Bill to these committees to deal with the matter of cottage rents. There is no mention of it in the Bill. What are mentioned are wages and hours, and I want to be clear as to whether these conciliation committees are to have legal power to deal with cottage rents.LORD HARRIS
432: The conciliation committees will have power to take into consideration cottage rents in dealing with the subject of wages. When their two representatives meet, the employers and employed, they will decide on the rate of wages, and where a cottage is included in the rate they will settle what
432THE EARL of ANCASTER
: My Lords, this is really an important matter. I assume that the conciliation committees will take over all the duties that the agricultural wages boards have undertaken in regard to privileges, such as, for instance, the rent of a cottage valued at 3s. per week as a substitute for a cash wage. I presume that potato grounds and other privileges which are recognised will continue under the conciliation committees. I hope the noble Earl will forgive me if I ask him to make that point quite clear.THE EARL OF PORTSMOUTH
: These conciliation committees will be composed of farmers and workmen who will know something, probably a good deal, about the conditions of labour in their part of the country, and I think it is certain that when they come to make any rate of wages they will have under consideration the whole customs and habits of the district. It will be for the two parties to come to an agreement. If they do not these may be a strike or lock-out, but it is for the conciliation committees to agree upon all these matters. The noble Earl, Lord Grey, I think, moved an Amendment the other night to leave out certain Northern counties, where it was the custom—I am giving this only as an instance—to hire a man for some months, or perhaps a year at a time. That will be taken into consideration by the conciliation committee. They would have to draw up a rate of wages, and if it were the custom to give a man meal or a free cottage or something of that kind, that would be taken into consideration by the farmers and labourers when they met. I do not think I can explain the matter further than that.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
433: My Lords, surely there is one difficulty to which the noble Earl has not alluded. Nobody is better aware than he that the people who will be representing the employers on the conciliation boards will not, as a rule, be the people to whom the cottages belong, or who are in any way concerned with their rents. It is understood that the representatives of employers and labourers on the conciliation committees will be, in the main, and in some cases, I imagine, solely, tenant farmers. On the other hand,
433THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, I hesitate to offer a legal opinion on a Bill which it is my business to endeavour to construe only when it becomes an Act. I think this discussion has gone a long way beyond the words of the Bill. These joint conciliation committees may agree to anything they like, without any result except, of course, that each side may act upon what it is prepared to do without compulsion. Taking the words in subsections (4) and (5), "where a rate of wages has been agreed, confirmed and. advertised" and so forth, and then the words "shall be an implied term of every contract" to pay wages, and putting these two things together, the only thing that these conciliation committees can do, so far as I can see, is to agree upon a rate of wages, whereupon, after some mechanical processes, that rate of wages will become a contract which can be sued on. A rate of wages has nothing to do with a cottage, and particularly has it nothing to do with a particular cottage.LORD SUMNER
ultra vires434: My Lords, I venture to hope that the noble Earl opposite will consider this matter before the Third Reading, because I think the
ultra vires434LORD BLEDISLOE
: I shall be very pleased to look into the matter before the Third Reading.THE EARL, OF ANCASTER
: My Lords, as I was responsible for the Amendment carriedLORD BLEDISLOE
ad hocad hoc: To save time, may I reply to that at once? If the committee wish to bring in an arbitrator ad hocad hocTHE EARL OF ANCASTER
: They can have the chairman as an outside arbitrator if they think fit, but many of us feel very strongly that the chairman should not be regarded in any way as a partisan. Once he has acted on an arbitration and given a vote on that particular question, he is bound to be regarded as a partisan. We think he should act from the start, being chairman of this committee, as an independent person who gives no vote at all. He would have to hold the balance between conflicting claims, and guide them along the path of conciliation.LORD BLEDISLOE
: The next Amendment is drafting, and is put in to satisfy a noble Lord.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
"There is also a very dangerous clause in this Bill, and one which, I believe, has never occurred in any system of nationalisation before. What does it say I It says the owner of a property is not to be the judge of what are suitable repairs to his building or laud; ho is not to be the judge of improvements to his property. A third party, a Government agent, is to be the judge of what repairs are necessary and what improvements are to be carried out, not at the nation's expense, but at the man's expense whose land is nationalised.": My Lords, I will not follow the noble Earl into the question of procedure, because it is quite clear that the Title of a Bill has often been altered in another place. I am rather surprised at the noble Earl saying it is an inconvenient thing to repeal part of a Bill when what is being clone by this very Bill is to repeal part of a Bill which was only passed six months ago. His argument is a double-edged one, and applies more to himself than to me. I will content myself with a quotation from the speech of the noble Earl in the Second Reading debate on the Bill of 1920, when he said:—
"There is also a very dangerous clause in this Bill, and one which, I believe, has never occurred in any system of nationalisation before. What does it say I It says the owner of a property is not to be the judge of what are suitable repairs to his building or laud; ho is not to be the judge of improvements to his property. A third party, a Government agent, is to be the judge of what repairs are necessary and what improvements are to be carried out, not at the nation's expense, but at the man's expense whose land is nationalised."LORD STRACHIE
: That was on Second Reading, but it was all altered in Committee.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: It was altered only in this sense, that power was given to the Government to make Regulations, and, if the Government was supported by Parliament, those Regulations would conic into effect. But the noble Lord voted against the Third Reading of the Bill, although there were very few who did so. I did not, although I disliked it very much. That shows he was not satisfied with these Regulations, and I do not see how he can pretend to disagree with the view that the landlord ought to be the judge of what improvements should be made, and not the tenant. It does seem very unfair, especially in these days, with the enormous expense of labour and of material, to put it into the power of any tenant to insist on certain improvements if the Government are successful in carrying these Regulations. The Minister of Agriculture has himself told me that he means to bring this in again and to carry it next session. That is a very fair challenge to me. I see no reason, therefore, why I should not persist now, and try once for all to stop these Regulations being made. It was a much sounder principle which the noble Earl enunciated on the Second Reading, that the landlord, and not the Government, or even Parliament, should be the judge of what improvements ought to be made.LORD STRACHIE
: Really the point is not whether Section 15 of the Act of last year is good or had. There may be other good or bad parts in the unrepealed portions of the Act. My contention is that it is irrelevant to this Bill. The sole object of this Bill is to deal with the wages boards and prices, which are contingent on wages boards. Section 15 deals with the amendment of the law as to improvements. I dare say there is great justice in what Lord Strachie says, and I dare say a great many of your Lordships share his view. But at this juncture of the Bill, which does not deal with this matter at all—and, in point of fact, Lord Strachie's Amendment is outside the Title of the Bill—I do not think it is fair for those who criticise the improvements clause to do so without giving a similar chance to the other people, who may have different views on that subject from ourselves. We are taking advantage, without notice, of the tenant farmer. People think that this Section 15 requires amendment—I am quite ready to concede that it does—but the proper time to amend it is by a separate Bill, dealing with the whole question of improvements, and on an occasion when everybody can state his case. That we should choose one clause that we dislike, and cut it out, without allowing the matter to be fully discussed, would lay us open to very serious animadversion.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: When the noble Earl complains that those who are entitled to speak for the tenant farmers have not had au opportunity of considering this matter, that is entirely due to the manner in which His Majesty's Government press their legislation forward. Nobody asked that this matter should be considered in a great hurry, at the forced close of the session. There is no reason why it should not have come up to us very much earlier, with the possibility of this matter, among other matters, being fully considered.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I only meant that, so far as I was concerned, T never dreamt that there was even going to be a Division upon it.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
440: I most respectfully protest against the suggestion made by the noble Earl in charge of the Bill that there is anything irregular in the present proceedings before your
440THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
441: My Lords, it is a pity that the noble Earl has not reminded himself of some of the speeches which were made by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture before the introduction of the Agriculture Bill into Parliament, because, if there was one thing which was emphasised more than another, it was that this great Agriculture Bill, which was going to provide a national agricultural policy for all time, was a well-balanced structure, which would provide advantages for every section of the agricultural community—landowners, tenant farmers, and workmen—and would also impose upon them certain responsibilities and duties of an onerous character.441LORD BLEDISLOE
: Then the landowners pay no compensation.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I now beg to move the insertion of the new schedule which appears in my name on the Marshalled List of Amendments.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: My Lords, I do not wish to say anything upon the merits of this question. I rise for one moment only upon a question of order, because one must be careful that doctrines are not laid down which may be a little misleading hereafter. There are questions upon which your Lordships have inadvertently reached conclusions which have made it debatable afterwards whether the result was harmonious with your Lordships' practice. When attention has been thereafter directed to those points your Lordships have reconsidered them. Whether this is such a case I do not stop to inquire. But the noble Earl has said that the position which has been taken is practically on the verge.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: Your Lordships will see that I propose to amend the suggested new Schedule. My first Amendment, which is purely drafting, is to leave out in line I of paragraph (8) the word "applies" and to insert"shall apply." Then I add subsequently, in line 5 of the same paragraph, "and such other injurious weeds as the Minister may, from time to time, by regulation prescribe." I wish to remind the noble Earl that under the Agriculture Act there is a provision for the making of Regulations prescribing the injurious weeds to which this subsection applies. As matters stand, your Lordships are asked to stereotype in this Bill five weeds only, to the exclusion of all other weeds which every expert admits ought eventually to be dealt with in the same manner. May I also remind your Lordships that there are several Acts now being administered by the Ministry of Agriculture—notably, the Injurious Insects and Pests Act—under which it is possible for the Ministry to make lists of pests which are injuring agriculture and which ought to be dealt with in a similar manner to noxious weeds? I hope, as I am simply attempting to make this provision more workable and more effective in the hands of the Minister of Agriculture for the time being, that the noble Earl will accept the Amendment.LORD BLEDISLOE
445: I am unable to accept this Amendment. I should like to say at the outset that it would mean Orders lying on the Table, and after my past experience of Orders lying on the Table of this House, I do not think it is a desirable way of treating the matter. But that is not really the serious objection. The serious objection is this. You are going to allow any future Minister to
445THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: That is not a wind-sown seed.LORD BLEDISLOE
: I admit it is a nasty weed. But what is the use of saving that you are to abolish control of cultivation, and then make it possible for agricultural committees to conic down and order farmers to get rid of all sorts of weeds. The committee may order farmers to furrow their fields two years running, and they may order them to employ labour in pulling out weeds. I can assure the noble Lord that no farmer would accept this Amendment for a minute.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: It is already the law of the land that farmers can be ordered to get rid of weeds.LORD BLEDISLOE
: It is not the law of the land that agricultural committees can give an order such as they would be able to give if this Amendment were carried. This simply means that you would restore control of cultivation, and for that reason I cannot accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
446: My Lords, I am rather surprised at the attitude of the noble Earl opposite, because he, for the first time, has shown alarm at what the Office which he now adorns may do in the future. He is so afraid that some future Minister of Agriculture may make Regulations which would eat se a recrudescence of complete control of agricultural cultivation. I cannot see that that fear is in any sense well-grounded. I think that the analogy which Lord Bledisloe mentioned is a very sound one. Just as it is possible, with more knowledge, to add certain noxious insects to those that can be dealt with by Regulation, so the same power may be conferred upon the Minister of
446THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
"Preserve the liberty of the bad farmer to ruin the good farmer by weeds."447: My Lords, I think the attitude of the Government is most extraordinary. I say with some confidence that it dies not represent the view of any important agricultural organisation in the country. I am quite convinced that the.Royal Agricultural Society would not take the view that the noble Earl has expressed, nor do I believe the National Agricultural Council would take it. At the present moment the law is that the Minister of Agriculture has power to schedule these noxious weeds, and thereupon there is authority to deal with them. Why every weed except the five mentioned in the schedule should henceforth be protected under the special blessing of the Under-Secretary for Agriculture is beyond my power of understanding."Preserve the liberty of the bad farmer to ruin the good farmer by weeds."447THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: The noble Earl the Deputy Leader of the House has been good enough to tell me that he can give us some information about the arrangement of business which, I am sure, will interest your Lordships.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, the information does not go very far. Last week I expressed the hope that we might conclude all stages of the Corn Production Acts (Repeal) Bill to-night. The importance of the Amendments inserted during the Committee stage, however, and the scale and range of the Amendments which are to be discussed to-day, obviously make any expectation of that kind impossible of fulfilment. I would, therefore, suggest that after the Committee stage of the Licensing Bill on Friday next we proceed with the concluding stage of the Corn Production Acts (Repeal) Bill. My noble friend, Lord Peel, tells me that he does not anticipate the Committee stage of the Licensing Bill will take very long, and I should be glad of an opportunity of consulting your Lordships later on to-day as to whether you would desire the House to meet earlier on Friday or at our normal time in the afternoon.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: May I ask whether that means that the noble Earl does not propose to enter on the Corn Production Acts (Repeal) Bill at all to-day?THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Oh, yes; the Report stage to-day, and the Third Reading on Friday.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Yes.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: A number of Peers whom I consulted, and who are interested in the Bill, are axon; to have it on Monday.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Hear, hear.SEVERAL NOBLE LORDS
: There is a division of opinion; your Lordships must not think that, everybody wants it postponed after Monday. A number of Peers have asked me to put down the Committee stage for that day; but I think probably the best thing is to watch the course of the debate to-morrow and we shall then see whether Monday is an acceptable day to your Lordships as a whole. I would renew the expression of a hope that we may begin the Committee stage on Monday, though I will not press it unless your Lordships agree.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
370: I cannot help thinking that Monday is rather soon, considering the extreme complexity of the Bill, and I hope that the noble Earl perhaps without coming to a. decision at this moment will bear in mind that there is a strong feeling, which my noble friend. Lord Salisbury, tells me hats been pressed
370THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
en reranche: I hope to-morrow to be able to express a view about that point. I will, of course, bear in mind Mint Lord Crewe says, buten rerancheTHE EARL OF CARWFORD
: We certainly propose to ask your Lordships to give a Second Reading to the Bill to-morrow. The Bill is in the House already. I should very much regret if we had to put off the Committee stage until Wednesday. I had hoped we might begin it on Monday.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
399: My Lords, I can, of course, give a reply only to the specific Question which my noble friend has put upon the Paper, and it is an unqualified affirmative. His Majesty's Government do certainly accept the principle advocated both by the Government of India and the Joint Select Committee, that members of the public Service in India should, in certain circumstances, be permitted to retire on proportional pension. The Secretary of State has already announced, in the House of Commons, his agreement with that principle.399THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
403402401: My Lords, your Lordships will remember that shortly before Easter the noble Lord on the cross-benches (Lord Sydenham) raised this question, and asked me whether the Government intended to take any action in the matter. I replied that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill during the present session, and this measure is the fulfilment of the undertaking I gave on that occasion. Your Lordships will readily understand that at this late period of the session it is impossible to carry the Bill through all its stages, either in your Lordships' House or in another place. The matter is an exceedingly complicated one, and the object of introducing the Bill to-day to your Lordships is to enable all those persons concerned to know what the proposals of the Government are for meeting the strong demand which has been made for legislation on this subject. It also affords the Government an opportunity of knowing upon what points criticism is to be chiefly directed. By this means the legislation, which it is proposed to undertake in the next session, will be greatly facilitated, because the Government will then have the advantage of being able to consider carefully the criticism that may have been levelled at this Bill.403402401THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: May I ask whether it is the fact that the Southern Parliament is meeting shortly for the express purpose of considering these proposals and that therefore a number of- members of that Parliament are being released for the express purpose of taking part in the discussion of these proposals; and whether the proposals will be divulged to the members of that Parliament, but will not be divulged to this Parliament?LORD KILLANIN
: I did not say that. I did not talk about the prejudices of the Militia officers.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I said it had received consideration by those competent to speak of Militia forces. I was only objecting to the word prejudice "being attributed to me.VISCOUNT PEEL
374373372"We propose that the British Army in future shall be organised in two main branches—the Regular Army and the Territorial Army. Both these branches will be completely self-contained. The Regular Army will have associated with it the Special Reserve battalions necessary to provide it with its own drafts in time of war. We contemplate for these battalions providing them with their old name—the Militia—which has the merit of being honourable, well-understood, and short.": My Lords, the Title of the Bill of which I now move the Second Reading describes it as an Act to provide for the application of new designations to the Territorial Force and to the Special Reserve." The whole object of this Bill, in fact, is to give statutory effect to decisions which have been already arrived at, affecting the titles of the Territorial Force and the Special Reserve. Those titles are to be altered to "Territorial Army" and "Militia."374373372"We propose that the British Army in future shall be organised in two main branches—the Regular Army and the Territorial Army. Both these branches will be completely self-contained. The Regular Army will have associated with it the Special Reserve battalions necessary to provide it with its own drafts in time of war. We contemplate for these battalions providing them with their old name—the Militia—which has the merit of being honourable, well-understood, and short."THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
: My Lords, I can only say in a few words that the object of this Bill is to enable Boards of Conservators and river authorities to increase the licence duties. It is impossible at the present moment to look after and protect the rivers unless such a Bill as this is passed. I beg to move.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
381: My Lords, I speak on behalf of a great number of Militia and Special Reserve officers who are organised for the purpose of preserving the traditions and safeguarding the interests of the old Constitutional Force. I have for some time had a Motion on the Paper in regard to the constitution of the Special Reserve or the Militia, and the only reason why I have not asked His Majesty's Government to be good enough to fix a day for discussing that Motion was because my noble friend who speaks for the War Office told me from time to time that the Army Council were not yet in a position to give me a definite answer. There was, therefore, no point in troubling him. That is why I have seized this opportunity of saying what I have to say.381LORD AMPTHILL
382: Nevertheless, they were Armies. The noble and learned Viscount seemed to apprehend that the change of name would bring about a reversion to a state of things which he described as one of disorder and confusion. I fail to see how the mere change of name can have that effect. It is said "Give a dog a bad name and hang him," and the noble and learned Viscount, when he named the Special Reserve, Witch was once the old Constitutional Force of this country, did more harm than it is possible to describe. He also quoted from Lord Lansdowne that "The Militia was plundered at one end and pillaged at the other". The noble and learned Viscount's reforms did not alter that state of things. The same condition of affairs, plundering at one end and pillaging at the other, went on all through the country in spite of his wonderful reforms.382LORD AMPTHILL
386385The power to raise and maintain a force or a Yeomanry force under any of the enactments set out in the Second Schedule of this Act shall cease, and those enactments shall be repealed to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.384ad hoc383: The noble and learned Viscount is wrong again. But I will leave him and will come to the Bill. I welcome the Bill as a reiteration and confirmation of the announcement made by tile Government eighteen months ago that the Special Reserve would be retained and reconstituted. At that time there was very grave and general alarm amongst those who knew lest the old Constitutional Force should be abolished. I also welcome the change of name for reasons which I will explain. First of all, I want to say how deplorable it seems to me, and to all those for whom I speak—and it has been admitted by the noble and learned Viscount—that all this tithe should have been allowed to pass. It is again a case of "Too late," as it has so often been with the Government. Eighteen months ago you could have reconstituted your Militia with ease and, as events have proved, with immense advantage. It is a question how far von will be able to do so now you have postponed it for so long. The delay has lost you officers and men who would have made the force invaluable to pm at the present time.386385The power to raise and maintain a force or a Yeomanry force under any of the enactments set out in the Second Schedule of this Act shall cease, and those enactments shall be repealed to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.384ad hoc383LORD AMPTHILL
390389388: Yes, sixty-one battalions of Militia, six batteries of Artillery, and four companies of Royal Engineers Militia went to South Africa, and at the head of them were members of your Lordships' House; while nine battalions served in Egypt and elsewhere. The noble Viscount has got into his head the notion that the Militia has never been anything else but a drafting machine, and a pastime for the country gentleman. Such is the history of a force of which the Under-Secretary spoke as if it has never been raised for anything except home defence. Such were the traditions which were swept into oblivion, as far as the public were concerned, by the unfortunate change of name in 1908. Can your Lordships doubt that all old Militiamen and Special Reservists who know anything at all about the past, desire the restoration of the time-honoured name of Militia, which was in use as far back as 1558? Of the present units, 47 were raised and have been in continual existence since 1660, and some of them are still older. The name of Special Reserve has never caught on. It conveys nothing to the general public. At the time when that name was inaugurated, there were nine different forms of Reserve in existence, and educated people very often mistook the Militiaman, who was compelled to call himself a Special Reservist, for a member of the National Reserve; that is to say, the gentlemen over sixty who used to turn out once a year in bowlers or top-hats and umbrellas in order to show what very large numbers were available for the defence of the country.390389388LORD AMPTHILL
Raj395Toutes les vérités ne sont pas bonnes à dire394393" If there are members of the Service whose doubts as to the changes to be made are so deeply rooted that they feel they cannot usefully endeavour to take part in them, then the Committee think it would be only fair to those officers that they should be offered an equivalent career elsewhere, or, in the last resort, that they should be allowed to retire on such pension as the Secretary of State in Council may consider suitable to their period of service."régime" Mr. E. S. Montagu has stated in the House that he has had but one application to resign on account of the new régime" I am sending you this so that you may be able to refute by a concrete example the self-satisfied folk at home who say all is well in India."" Personally,I feel that service under a Government which has definitely given up all pretence of governing is impossible. As a bachelor one might take the risk; but it is hateful to be forced to take it with one's hands tied. As a married man, however, it is obviously out of the question."" To those who are fully acquainted with the working of the Oriental mind it will be obvious that the general trend of high officials' speeches and announcements will very seriously undermine the moral influence which alone enables the solitary British official to carry on his work in the district."392" The real unrest to-day is among the English officials."391had given Notice to ask the Under-Secretary of State for India whether His Majesty's Government have accepted the principle advocated both by
Raj395Toutes les vérités ne sont pas bonnes à dire394393" If there are members of the Service whose doubts as to the changes to be made are so deeply rooted that they feel they cannot usefully endeavour to take part in them, then the Committee think it would be only fair to those officers that they should be offered an equivalent career elsewhere, or, in the last resort, that they should be allowed to retire on such pension as the Secretary of State in Council may consider suitable to their period of service."régime" Mr. E. S. Montagu has stated in the House that he has had but one application to resign on account of the new régime" I am sending you this so that you may be able to refute by a concrete example the self-satisfied folk at home who say all is well in India."" Personally,I feel that service under a Government which has definitely given up all pretence of governing is impossible. As a bachelor one might take the risk; but it is hateful to be forced to take it with one's hands tied. As a married man, however, it is obviously out of the question."" To those who are fully acquainted with the working of the Oriental mind it will be obvious that the general trend of high officials' speeches and announcements will very seriously undermine the moral influence which alone enables the solitary British official to carry on his work in the district."392" The real unrest to-day is among the English officials."391LORD AMPTHILL
368: It is difficult for me to answer the noble Lord, for the reason anticipated by Lord Crewe. Certainly, I myself am very imperfectly in the confidence of those who are representing Ireland as to what precisely their intentions are, as to whether the meeting on Tuesday will come to a decision, whether their discussion will be in public or not, and whether there will be an understanding or not. If matters are discussed in public with the result that these proposals become known, of course they must be divulged at, once, and there is no reason which would induce the Government to hold them back
368THE LORD CHANCELLOR
364: The noble Marquess will recall that when I was last questioned upon this matter, I attempted to make it plain that we had put forward to the representatives of Southern Ireland proposals which, in our judgment, were a suitable basis for negotiations, and, it Wright be, for settlement. The Government who had put forward those proposals was naturally completely cognisant, both of their tenour and of their scope. No one who was representing Southern Ireland, with the exception of the almost solitary
364THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I should think it extremely improbable, Further than that I cannot go. It is improbable, not, because, if the Irish representatives return a reply, favourable or unfavourable, there will be one moment's delay. I assure Lord Salisbury that if the Government are informed, either that the representatives of Ireland consider these proposals suitable as a basis for discussion or that they consider them unsuitable, not only that fact, but these proposals, will be at once communicated to Parliament. If, on the other hand, in a matter which is entirely beyond the control of the Government, these proposals should not have been so submitted, it will, of course, if there is an assent to the proposals, and if the later discussions which were always contemplated prove fruitful, lie utterly impossible to give effect to them until both Houses of Parliament have had the full power of exercising their indisputable and undisputed right of veto.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
362: The statement to which the noble Marquess took exception was that he had made a criticism of the Government. To that I venture to reply that it is a verbal point and nothing more. Every one in your Lordships House knows, and the noble Marquess knows perfectly well, that in asking this Question as to why members of the Irish Assembly have been released, he meant to convey the noble Marquess will not deny it that his attitude is a critical What other reason could there be for asking a Question, unless it meant to indicate a criticism on the part of the noble Marquess? The point taken by him is a verbal one entirely.362THE LORD CHANCELLOR
363: Undoubtedly the release took place in order to facilitate the discussion of these matters, in order that. If there be ultimately an overwhelming Sanction on the part of the Irish for the proposals which have boon addressed to them by the British Government the authority of those who spoke on behalf of Ireland might not be challenged. I myself do not know of any other means by which it would have been possible to have put forward upon an unimpeachably representative ground the conclusion reached by Southern Ireland. Lord Salisbury said that a statement of Government policy was overdue and that although he was glad that a short general statement had been attempted by too, it was not- precisely invited by his Question. I take a different view. It is quite impossible for ally member of this House, or for Ito country generally, to judge of the wisdom prudence and defensibility of that which the Government have done without going back to the moment at which the first and critical decision was taken—the decision that there should be discussions at. all. If it be decided as I am sure it will hereafter be decided, that we were right in reaching that conclusion at that time, I find it: impossible to believe that it can be disputed that, the only measures by which such discussions might be made.authoritative should have been taken.363THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I do not think that interruption is entirely worthy of the noble Marquess.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
361360359358: I was under the impression that it had been withdrawn. It has not, however, at any rate so far, been moved, and I think that no definite day has been appointed by the noble Marquess for its discussion. In the view of the Government, Lord Salisbury rendered a public service by not moving that Motion on the date on which it stood for discussion, because whether the course adopted by the Government be Fight, as we believe, or whether it be wrong and disastrous, as the noble Marquess believes, ibis at least is evident: that it is a course to which we are committed, and the discussion at on.' time invited by Lord Salisbury would have involved, in my judgment, disadvantages on both sides. I, for one, am extremely glad that it has not so far arisen for discussion.361360359358THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, Lord Salisbury was good enough, when lie gave me private notice of his intention to ask this Question, to inform me, as he has informed your Lordships, that he was asking it on his own behalf. The noble Marquess had on the Paper two clays ago Notice of a Resolution which would have challenged the whole of the policy of the Government upon a matter which he has rightly described as extremely difficult.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: I rise, net to continue the discussion, but because I wish to make it most plain by every means in my power if Lord Salisbury deems in Ins understanding of the matter that the public interest warrants old justifies such a discussion, he will find the Government most ready to meet him in reply to that charge.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
"The policy of the Government is to give the cold shoulder to their supporters, and to do anything to win the good will of their antagonists."398397396; My Lords, my I, as a member of the Joint Select Committee, add a few words to what has been said by my noble friend? The Committee was, I believe, perfectly unanimous as
"The policy of the Government is to give the cold shoulder to their supporters, and to do anything to win the good will of their antagonists."398397396LORD SYDENHAM
405"As a consequence of what they told me I have paid nine instalments, or £9 altogether. I now find that I have been grossly misled, and that instead of War Stock I have an industrial assurance policy with conditions attached that I knew nothing about. Had I been told the truth I most certainly should not have paid any money to these men or to the company on such a contract, and I suggest it is more than time the public were protected against such fraudulent transactions, and I further consider that the £9 paid should be returned to me with interest thereon.""I, William Robinson, sincerely and solemnly declare that in the month of August, 1920, two men representing the Prudential Assurance Company, Ltd., called upon me and induced me to pay to them the sum of £1 as a first instalment, on what I was led to believe was the purchase of £100 of War Stock, which I was given to understand would be payable to me with interest thereon at the end of eight years; and which amount would by that time amount to between £130 and £140.404: My Lords, I should like to express my gratitude to the Government and the noble Earl for bringing forward this Bill and giving us time for it next session. I have twice attempted to draw the attention of your Lordships' House to the very grave revelations which were made by Lord Parmoor's Committee, to which evils this Bill is intended to put to an end. In framing the Bill, the Government, doubtless, have taken opinions from a very large number of quarters, but they could not ascertain. I am afraid, the opinions of the vast number of persons who have suffered total loss from the operations of this system of industrial assurance. The Committee stated that five million of these policies lapsed in one year, and it was maintained in evidence that this large number of lapses was really disadvantageous to the companies, but the Committee was able to prove that these enormous losses to the very poor people were compatible with large gains to a few great corporations. I believe in the case of some of these lapses the provisions of the Courts (Emergency Powers) Act, 1914, have been violated. In one case, of which I know, a father and three sons served in the Army, having taken out an industrial policy. When they came back after demobilisation, they offered their arrears, but those arrears were refused, and now, in these had times, those poor men cannot, of course, pay up all that they owe, and they have lost every farthing that was collected from them.405"As a consequence of what they told me I have paid nine instalments, or £9 altogether. I now find that I have been grossly misled, and that instead of War Stock I have an industrial assurance policy with conditions attached that I knew nothing about. Had I been told the truth I most certainly should not have paid any money to these men or to the company on such a contract, and I suggest it is more than time the public were protected against such fraudulent transactions, and I further consider that the £9 paid should be returned to me with interest thereon.""I, William Robinson, sincerely and solemnly declare that in the month of August, 1920, two men representing the Prudential Assurance Company, Ltd., called upon me and induced me to pay to them the sum of £1 as a first instalment, on what I was led to believe was the purchase of £100 of War Stock, which I was given to understand would be payable to me with interest thereon at the end of eight years; and which amount would by that time amount to between £130 and £140.404LORD SYDENHAM
: This Bill is intended to confirm a scheme, which is identical with similar schemes which have been confirmed by Parliament within the last few years. I beg to move that the Bill be read a second time.LORD STANMORE
: My Lords, as one who has taken part in previous debates and who holds the same view as Lord Sydenham, I wish to say a few words with regard to this Bill. It is absolutely essential that a measure of this kind should be passed into law, in the interests of policy holders and also of insurance companies. The course which has been adopted is, I very convenient. I have compared most carefully the Bill with the Report and I find that the suggestions, the moderate suggestions, made by the Committee have been carried out. Small Amendments may be required, but, on the whole, the Bill is well thought out, carefully constructed, and carries into effect the main suggestions of the Committee.LORD SHANDON
: The noble Lord has totally misunderstood me. I did not say that the Special Reserve did not do splendid service. They did splendid service in furnishing drafts for the Regular battalions. Not one of them could have gone out independently.VISCOUNT HALDANE
: It was a war organisation.VISCOUNT HALDANE
380379: Who are those competent to speak? Does the noble Viscount suggest that men like Lord Haig, or any of the generals who distinguished themselves in the war, made representations to the War Office about going back to the name of Militia? I should be astounded if he told me that across the Table. The people to whom he listened wore not those I persons. The persons
380379VICOUNT HALDANE
: I understood the noble Lord to say that there haul been a. great deal of representation made to the Government, about the desirability of going back to the old name.VICOUNT HALDANE
378377376375: My Lords, this Bill proposes to make three main changes. One is the repeal of the existing Militia Acts. With that I entirely agree. The existing Militia Acts are, theoretically at any rate, substantial Acts which could come into operation and be enforced by a Militia Ballot to-morrow, were it not for the Militia Ballot Act which we pass every year. It is obvious that that. is a matter of substance which cannot be dealt with by a mere Statute Law revision provision, although, no doubt, it is true that morally, as distinguished from legally, those Acts are inert, and could not without a commotion be put into operation.378377376375VISCOUNT HALDANE
: My Lords, I should like to ask what the noble Marquess means by known and canvassed in all parts of Ireland ''? That is a very serious statement to make.THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
: I think, perhaps, that was rather an inaccurate statement. I should have said "known and canvassed by the elected representatives in every part of Ireland"; that is, by those who correspond to the British House of Commons amid House of Lords.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: It is still down.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
357: My Lords, I rise to put a Question to the noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack of which I have given hint private notice—namely, whether the Government will inform the House of the reasons which have led them to order the release of the members of the Southern Irish Parliament who have been in prison in connection with crime and rebellion in Ireland. Let me say, in the first place, that on the last occasion on which I put a Question to the noble and learned Viscount he asked me who "we" were, when I addressed your Lordships. Tit this case, there is no question of "we" I speak entirely for myself. Beyond that, I have hardly anything to say in putting the Question. It is possible that the noble and learned Viscount may be glad to have the opportunity of giving some account to your Lordships of the reasons which have led the Government to this decision, because it is a grave decision.357THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I have advanced no criticism.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, I have no desire whatever, as I said in (I am afraid) my too frequent interruptions, to quarrel in ally sense with the course which the noble and learned Viscount has taken. He always treats me with very great courtesy, and I have no desire to offer any criticism of his taking this course. I shall weigh very carefully what he said at the beginning of his remarks, before I put the Motion which still stands in my name upon the Paper or rather before I advance it to a definite date. I should like to say this, in putting a further question to the noble and learned Viscount. He replied to me, in effect, that the terms which the Government have offered to Mr. de Valera will be submitted to the representatives of the Southern Irish people, including these gentlemen who have been released; that is to say, they will be submitted to the Irish House of Commons. When will the same terms he submitted to the British Parliament? Is it to be said that the Irish House of Commons is to know the terms while the British House of Commons and the British House of Lords are not to know the terms?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: What I want to ask is whether the release took place in order tot facilitate the discussion of the terms: whether the terms are going to be submitted to I la sc gentlemen?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
365: My Lords, it is a very grave statement which has been made by the noble and learned Viscount. In the opinion of the Government, it is not likely that these terms, which are to be known and canvassed in all parts of Ireland are to be submitted to the British Parliament before the Prorogation. I do not say what course I shall pursue, but the noble Viscount must not
365THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Will it be before the Prorogation?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: That is impossible.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: With regard to the Committee stage friends have intimated to me that there ought to hp an interva1 of several days between the two. It is a very complicated matter. I do not want to raise any difficulty about taking the Second Reading to-morrow although that is a very strong step, considering the importance of the Bill but there might lie matters.—not polemical matters, but matters of importance—to be raised in Committee. The suggestion has been made to me that the Bill ought not to be lint down, ale any rate, before Wednc6day of next week.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My noble friend did not mention the Railways Bill. I understand it is in contemplation to take the Second Reading to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, I wish to say a word on one or two points before the Bill is read a second time. As a very old Militiaman, and one who is very proud of the fact, I thank my noble friend for the fervid and eloquent defence which he has made of the old Militia. I agree with him that the title of the Bill is wrong. It is an obvious slip of somebody in the War Office, and it ought to be the Militia and Territorial Army Bill. That, however, does not affect the question of precedence, because the Militia will always come before the Territorial Army.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: A lot of battalions went to South Africa.THE EARL OF SELBORNE 
: My Amendments on this Clause are drafting AmendmentsVISCOUNT PEEL
: My Lords, my noble friend, Lord Dartmouth, seems to have been labouring under some error as to the meaning of the word "request." I understood that when the word "request was used by a Minister it was usually equivalent to the word"require," although it was possibly an act of courtesy to express it in that way. It shows the danger of being too polite. I will not go into the full merits of the Amendment which he has put on the Paper, because it raises really a rather wide question as to whether a matter of that kind is really a matter for legislation and not one of administration, and whether it would not be rather unwise to give statutory rights of re-hearing to officials of a public authority.THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
460: I believe sonic of the local committees will be con-
460THE EARL OF DARTMOUTH
: Not with executive powers.VISCOUNT PEEL
: All their executive powers disappear?THE EARL OF DARTMOUTH
: They disappear.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Then all their officials disappear at the same time?THE EARL OF DARTMOUTH
: Yes.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I do not wish to press the Amendment.THE EARL OF DARTMOUTH
: The small Amendments on Clause 2 are all drafting amendments.VISCOUNT PEEL
: The Amendments to Clause 3 are also drafting.VISCOUNT PEEL
: The next Amendments are also drafting.VISCOUNT PEEL
464463b, on behalf of LORD HABRIS, moved to omit all words in subsection (3) proviso (464463bTHE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I thought I was familiar with most of the views of the noble Marquess, but I did not know what a strong passion he was going to develop for lawyers, or how certain he was that the presence of a lawyer—of any lawyer, apparently—on a committee—VISCOUNT PEEL
: On a Tribunal.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
:—gave such confidence o the public.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Not on a committee but a Tribunal, which is a different thing.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I am going to say a word as to whether it is a Tribunal in the ordinary sense or not.VISCOUNT PEEL
: It is called a Tribunal.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
466465: First of all I had better say a word as to how the new proposal arose to eliminate a lawyer and substitute a second doctor. It arose out of the investigations and Report of a Select Committee of the House of Commons that sat during 1919–20, looked into the whole question of pensions awards and examined the question of the right of appeal on the assessments. In their view, which was strongly stated, I understand, in their Report, there should be a majority of medical men on the committee as well as an ex-Service representative. Clearly, if the medical men are to have a majority in accordance with the recommendation of the Select Committee, it would be necessary to increase the number of medical
466465VISCOUNT PEEL
: The Amendment to this Clause which stands in my name is of a purely drafting character.VISCOUNT PEEL
"Before any order or regulation is made under this Act a draft thereof shall be laid before each House of Parliament, and if a resolution is passed by either House within the next subsequent twenty-one clays on which that House has sat next after any such draft is laid before it against the draft no further proceedings shall be taken thereon.": I hope the noble Marquess will not press so drastic a proposal as he has made. His words are—
"Before any order or regulation is made under this Act a draft thereof shall be laid before each House of Parliament, and if a resolution is passed by either House within the next subsequent twenty-one clays on which that House has sat next after any such draft is laid before it against the draft no further proceedings shall be taken thereon."VISCOUNT PEEL
: Perhaps the noble Viscount will address himself to the point which I submitted.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I was addressing myself to the proposal as put on the Paper by the noble Marquess. May I not do that?VISCOUNT PEEL
: I am perfectly willing, if the noble Viscount thinks the form too drastic., to alter it, provided the Government will say that they will consent to a form of words which shall make the annulment positive instead of permissive whenever it is done by either House of Parliament. I will not say another word, but will bring up the proper form in co-operation with the Government on Report.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I will consult with the Minister of Pensions before the Report stage.VISCOUNT PEEL
: In that case I will not press it.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
452451: My Lords, I should also have to call upon noble Lords opposite to justify the possibility of taking the Committee stage on Monday if the noble Marquess is going to call upon Lord Emmott to support him. However, I think I can meet him. As regards to-morrow, we propose to take the Committee stage of the Licensing Bill and the final stage of the Corn Production Acts (Repeal) Bill. I suggest that the House should meet at 2 o'clock tomorrow. It was proposed that your Lordships should meet at twelve, but in that case there must be an adjournment for luncheon and perhaps it would be as expeditious to meet at 2 o'clock. I propose, subject to the approval of your Lordships, to move the adjournment to-day until 2 o'clock to-morrow.452451THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: Two Standing Committees.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
454: My Lords, I am sorry that I was not in my place in the to hear the noble Earl opposite make he whole of his statement, but I have been able to gather the purport of that statement from what has fallen from the noble Marquess behind me. I cannot help thinking that His Majesty's Government are trying to have it both ways. When I made the suggestion that it would )e wiser, while dealing fully with the Railways Bill at present, to defer until later in the autumn consideration of the other important measures before your Lordships' House, I understood that the choice was this—that either we should teal with the Railways Bill, and then be able to rise at a date convenient both to ourselves and to another place; or, if my Motion were defeated, that we should give full consideration both to the Rail-rays Bill and to the other measures, with he probability of sitting well into the month of September. Now, apparently, he theory of His Majesty's Government 3 that it is possible to do what we on this side considered as possible only if there were a postponement of important measures until the autumn session, and at the same time to do without an autumn session.454THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: With your Lordships' permission, I should like to say one word, and one word only. The noble Marquess missed only two moments of what I had to say, but during those two moments I pointed out a feature which he must not ignore, and that is, that I am strongly pressed by noble Lords sitting on both sides of your Lordships' House, by noble Lords of influence, to take this Bill very early. In consenting, therefore, as I now do, to postponing the Committee stage until Tuesday, I know that I am doing what well qualified Peers desire me not to do. But I must ask your Lordships at least to begin, if you do not consent to conclude, the Second Reading of the Safeguarding of Industries Bill on Monday. I cannot force your Lordships to come to a decision, but I must beg your Lordships to be so good as at least to begin the Second Reading of that Bill on that day. If, as Lord Crewe says, it is found that the measures are of such importance as to preclude their being properly discussed by your Lordships, of course the remedy lies in your Lordships' hands, and the timetable will have to be protracted.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I will give an undertaking that nothing shall be put in front of Lord Salisbury's Motion except such business as may be mutually agreed upon.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
478plus477476475474473472471: My Lords, in asking your Lordships to give a Second Reading to this important Bill, I think it desirable that I should begin by making a brief survey of the conditions which led up to its introduction, and explain to your Lordships, if I can, how it happens that a Bill of this magnitude, which ought to come into operation on August 15, or, at any rate, as near that date as possible, is presented to your Lordships for the first time on August 11. I would ask your Lordships to carry your minds back to the debates which took place on the Ministry of Transport Bill in this House at the end of the session of 1919. Your Lordships will remember that I commended that Bill to your acceptance on two grounds. By an agreement made between the Government and the railway companies in 1911, the railway companies were guaranteed their net revenue of 1913 for the period of the war and for two years after the declaration of Peace, and the Government held that, as the State had guaranteed the cost of the railways for the next two years, it was necessary that the State should also possess the power of effecting economies and exercising control over administration.478plus477476475474473472471THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
: I am obliged to the noble and learned Lord. I understand, therefore, that he proposes that Parts I, IV and V should be passed now, and that Parts II.and III should be deferred and included in a separate Bill in the future?THE EARL OF LYTTON
482481480479: I think the noble Lord does not, perhaps, quite realise the extent to which this Bill is, as I have said, a nicely balanced agreement between a number of persons and organisations which have considerably divergent interests. There is, first of all, the State which is mainly interested in Part I of the Bill, and the settlement with the railway companies which is referred to in Clauses 11 and 12. There are also the railway companies, who are interested, indeed, in Part I, which secures the amalgamations and the payment of the £60,000,000, but who are also vitally interested in Part III, and who would never have agreed to take back their railways on August 15, or to accept any
482481480479THE EARL OF LYTTON
: My Lords, I should like to ask the noble Earl in charge of the Bill one question—and may I most sincerely congratulate him on the able way in which he explained the Bill? He mentioned that responsible authorities could go before the Railway and Canal Commission if they had any complaints with regard to the railways.THE EARL OF MAYO
: Is the noble Earl speaking of Clause 15, in Part II?THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I am speaking of Part II generally. The noble Earl went on to say that Part II was the charter of the traders. I want to know what is the charter of the passengers, because I do not know what body of passengers with a grievance has any chance of getting that grievance dealt with under this Bill. Lord Parmoor dealt very clearly with monopolies. Let me give the noble Earl in charge of the Bill a clear conception of what a real monopoly is. Let us take the London and North Western Railway from Chester to Holyhead, and from Holyhead to Kings town. That is absolutely a monopoly, with which nobody can interfere, unless by making a line to run alongside it in competition, which is impossible. Now that that railway has got a monopoly, they can do exactly what they like for the convenience or the inconvenience of the passengers. I do not complain very much about it, but there are certain inconveniences which might be put right, and I should like to ask the noble Earl how passengers can possibly be heard in this matter. I should be very glad if he could, tell me that, because this particular monopoly has existed for a long time.THE EARL OF MAYO
501: My Lords, I have no reason to complain of the reception which your Lordships have given to this Bill. Indeed, the only critical speech was made by Lord Parmoor, and, as I see he is not in his place, I do not think it is necessary for me to reply in any detail to his criticisms have, however, been asked one or two questions to which I think it right I should reply before the Motion is put. My noble friend, Lord Farrer, asked a question about the Somerset and Dorset Railway, and he was afraid, I think, that because this was a small railway it had somehow or other been overlooked by the Government, and was not provided for. The facts about that railway are these: The railway is a joint railway now between two companies, and it will remain under the Bill a joint railway between two groups. It is not the only railway in that position. All railways which are joint railways between two companies that will in future be amalgamated into one group will, of course, be absorbed, and are mentioned in a schedule of the Bill, but all lines which will continue to be joint lines between two groups are not absorbed into either one or the other, but will continue in the future, as in the past, to be joint lines, and for that reason are not mentioned in a schedule of the Bill.501THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I eludes England, does it not?THE EARL OF MAYO
: does not apply to Ireland.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Can any body of persons in Ireland make representations with regard to the monopoly between Holyhead and Chester?THE EARL OF MAYO
: Any body of persons may make representations with regard to the manner in which their interests may be affected by the railway administration, and call upon the companies concerned to provide facilities, and, the Minister giving the Order, the application will then be heard in the case of passengers exactly in the same way as in the case of any body of traders. It is in those two clauses that the interests of passengers are provided for.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: May I ask this: The noble Earl said that in parts of England there would be monopolies and that provision was made for competition.I do not see what provision possibly can be made for competition against the London and North Western railway between Chester and Holyhead. We are entirely in their hands from that station to the harbour of Kingstown at present.THE EARL OF MAYO
: I was pointing out to the noble Earl that the existence of monopoly, and the absence of competition, exist not only in the case of Holyhead but on a number of routes from London to many parts of the country, and therefore it is not a new thing to find parts of the country where there is no competition between different railway companies. There will, in future, under this Bill, when all the amalgamations have taken place; be competition in places where there is competition to-day. For instance, the noble Lord can travel to Scotland by the East Coast or the West Coast group, and that competition will exist in the future under the Bill. Therefore, it is not true to say, as Lord Parmoor said, that all competition was being swept away by this Bill, and it was only in consequence of that remark that I have given this explanation.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: England is an island; we have to get across the Irish Sea, and there is a monopoly there now.THE EARL OF MAYO
: These are points which would be better raised in Committee, and I will deal with them then if they are raised. I can only thank your Lordships for the reception that you have given to this Bill.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: My Lords, this is an interesting matter, and there is, of course, a considerable question of policy involved, upon which it would not be fair to press the noble Earl at this moment. But I think that on some occasion or other it would be interesting to learn what the general policy of His Majesty's Government is on this question of Crown Lands. It is not, I think, quite reasonable to put the whole matter on the shoulders of the Minister of Agriculture; it is a question of Government policy, and I take it that anything like the general sale of agricultural Crown Lands would be a matter riot to be decided by one Minister, but by the Government as a whole. I have no doubt that there are arguments which could be used both ways, particularly with regard to what has fallen from my noble friend who asked the Questions.THE MAHQUESS OF CREWE
512511personnel510509508: My Lords, for a good many months during last year and this I was engaged in presiding over a Committee of Inquiry into the conditions of Russia. That brought me into touch with Russians in this country, with sonic of whom I have communicated quite recently with reference to this question of famine. If your Lordships will allow me I should like to make one or two observations in regard to one point raised by my noble friend, Lord Askwith—namely, the efforts to assist the people in the famine-stricken areas. After the discussion, reported in today's paper, which took place at the Supreme Council yesterday, there is no need for me to emphasise the urgency of the question. The Prime Minister of this country stated that it was important to consider measures of relief on the largest possible scale, not only for the sake of Russia, but for the sake of the world. I think everybody must agree with that proposition. Russia undoubtedly is face to face with a terrible catastrophe, and there must be reactions on Europe and on the world from the condition of things which exists in Russia to-day.512511personnel510509508LORD EMMOTT
514513: My Lords, at this late hour I hesitate to detain you, but as I have been referred to by name, perhaps you will allow me to say a few words. I do not think there is any Government in the world which is capable of coping with the calamity which threatens Eastern Europe, but if any Government or if any system is capable of coping with it, that system is the one which was elaborated in India during the years that I was there. The main object of the system is to preserve intact the framework of rural society so that when nature resumes her activities the people may be there to play their part.514513LORD MAC DONNELL
516515datadata: My Lords, I have listened with great attention and interest to what has fallen from the three Peers who have spoken. I am afraid that the official information at the disposal of the Government is rather meagre, but it is clear that Russia, which in a single year before the war was able not only to feed herself but also to export no less than 14,000,000 tons of cereals, is now in a position of the utmost danger.516515datadataTHE EARL OF CRAWFORD
470de minimis non carat lex: My Lords, this is a measure which, I think, is entirely non-contentious, and, indeed, is so small that it must be the exception which proves the rule—470de minimis non carat lexTHE FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY (LORD LEE OF FAREHAM)
5036. Is it proposed to offer for sale any land in the occupation of ex-Service men?5. How much of the Crown Lands have been let to ex-officers, non-commissioned officers and soldiers who have fought in the Great War?4. How much agricultural land still remains the property of the Crown after the completion of the contemplated sales?3. What is the estimated value of the land to be offered for sale?2. How much has been realised by such sales, and how has this money been invested?1. What is the area of the agricultural land of the Crown already sold or to be offered for sale?
6. Is it proposed to offer for sale any land in the occupation of ex-Service men?5. How much of the Crown Lands have been let to ex-officers, non-commissioned officers and soldiers who have fought in the Great War?4. How much agricultural land still remains the property of the Crown after the completion of the contemplated sales?3. What is the estimated value of the land to be offered for sale?2. How much has been realised by such sales, and how has this money been invested?1. What is the area of the agricultural land of the Crown already sold or to be offered for sale?: My Lords, I desire to ask the Questions which stand in my name on the Paper, namely:—
5036. Is it proposed to offer for sale any land in the occupation of ex-Service men?5. How much of the Crown Lands have been let to ex-officers, non-commissioned officers and soldiers who have fought in the Great War?4. How much agricultural land still remains the property of the Crown after the completion of the contemplated sales?3. What is the estimated value of the land to be offered for sale?2. How much has been realised by such sales, and how has this money been invested?1. What is the area of the agricultural land of the Crown already sold or to be offered for sale?
6. Is it proposed to offer for sale any land in the occupation of ex-Service men?5. How much of the Crown Lands have been let to ex-officers, non-commissioned officers and soldiers who have fought in the Great War?4. How much agricultural land still remains the property of the Crown after the completion of the contemplated sales?3. What is the estimated value of the land to be offered for sale?2. How much has been realised by such sales, and how has this money been invested?1. What is the area of the agricultural land of the Crown already sold or to be offered for sale?THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
493: My Lords, I should like to say a few words in support of what Lord Parmoor has said on the monopoly side of this Bill. Before doing so, I must say I hesitate to speak in the presence of so many railway directors, because I cannot help thinking that the railway directors, or the railway managers, and the Government have made a very good bargain for themselves in this matter, and that the public has been left out, especially the traders. Take the case of the Hull and Barnsley Railway, which has been mentioned by my noble friend, Lord Parmoor. Why have they been put into a monopoly group? The people of Hull do not want that railway put in that group. It is true that the Hull Chamber of Commerce and the Hull Corporation have done what they could to oppose this Bill. The people of Hull are universally opposed to it with the exception, perhaps, of one or two railway directors who happen
493LORD NUNBURNHOLME
(6) In the case of the comparatively small acreage of the scheduled land occupied by ex-Service men as small holdings, particulars of sale are sent to the county councils, the statutory authority for land settlement purposes, with an intimation that any of the land would be sold on the basis of a perpetual annuity, and it is hoped that by that means none of the ex-Service men will be dispossessed.(5) Upwards of 9,000 acres have been let either directly or indirectly to ex-Service men who served their country in the Great War.(4) About 70,000 acres of agricultural land in England and Wales will remain the property of the Crown when the above sales have been completed.(3) A further 10,109 acres have been scheduled for sale this year, the estimated value of which is £202,200.(2) £95,665 was realised by such sales, and the money has been invested in the name of the Treasury in long-dated Government securities by, and on the advice of, the National Debt Commissioners. Contracts have been entered into during the current financial year for the sale of 470 acres for £49,675, and a farm of 264 acres has been sold to the Cheshire County Council under Section 9 of the Land Settlement (Facilities) Act, 1919, for a perpetual annuity of £720.504ex-officio(1) The Commissioners of Woods are empowered by an Act in the reign of George IV to sell any part of the land revenues in their charge except Royal forests, parks, or chases, and, under Section 60 of that Act, no sale of a property of a value in excess of £100 shall be made without the previous authority of the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury for the time being, signified by Warrant. Since that Act was passed in 1829 many sales of Crown Lands have taken place. The area of the agricultural land, under the charge of the Minister of Agriculture as504ex-officio
(6) In the case of the comparatively small acreage of the scheduled land occupied by ex-Service men as small holdings, particulars of sale are sent to the county councils, the statutory authority for land settlement purposes, with an intimation that any of the land would be sold on the basis of a perpetual annuity, and it is hoped that by that means none of the ex-Service men will be dispossessed.(5) Upwards of 9,000 acres have been let either directly or indirectly to ex-Service men who served their country in the Great War.(4) About 70,000 acres of agricultural land in England and Wales will remain the property of the Crown when the above sales have been completed.(3) A further 10,109 acres have been scheduled for sale this year, the estimated value of which is £202,200.(2) £95,665 was realised by such sales, and the money has been invested in the name of the Treasury in long-dated Government securities by, and on the advice of, the National Debt Commissioners. Contracts have been entered into during the current financial year for the sale of 470 acres for £49,675, and a farm of 264 acres has been sold to the Cheshire County Council under Section 9 of the Land Settlement (Facilities) Act, 1919, for a perpetual annuity of £720.504ex-officio(1) The Commissioners of Woods are empowered by an Act in the reign of George IV to sell any part of the land revenues in their charge except Royal forests, parks, or chases, and, under Section 60 of that Act, no sale of a property of a value in excess of £100 shall be made without the previous authority of the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury for the time being, signified by Warrant. Since that Act was passed in 1829 many sales of Crown Lands have taken place. The area of the agricultural land, under the charge of the Minister of Agriculture as504ex-officio: My Lords, the answers to the noble Marquess's Questions are as follows:—
(6) In the case of the comparatively small acreage of the scheduled land occupied by ex-Service men as small holdings, particulars of sale are sent to the county councils, the statutory authority for land settlement purposes, with an intimation that any of the land would be sold on the basis of a perpetual annuity, and it is hoped that by that means none of the ex-Service men will be dispossessed.(5) Upwards of 9,000 acres have been let either directly or indirectly to ex-Service men who served their country in the Great War.(4) About 70,000 acres of agricultural land in England and Wales will remain the property of the Crown when the above sales have been completed.(3) A further 10,109 acres have been scheduled for sale this year, the estimated value of which is £202,200.(2) £95,665 was realised by such sales, and the money has been invested in the name of the Treasury in long-dated Government securities by, and on the advice of, the National Debt Commissioners. Contracts have been entered into during the current financial year for the sale of 470 acres for £49,675, and a farm of 264 acres has been sold to the Cheshire County Council under Section 9 of the Land Settlement (Facilities) Act, 1919, for a perpetual annuity of £720.504ex-officio(1) The Commissioners of Woods are empowered by an Act in the reign of George IV to sell any part of the land revenues in their charge except Royal forests, parks, or chases, and, under Section 60 of that Act, no sale of a property of a value in excess of £100 shall be made without the previous authority of the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury for the time being, signified by Warrant. Since that Act was passed in 1829 many sales of Crown Lands have taken place. The area of the agricultural land, under the charge of the Minister of Agriculture as504ex-officio
(6) In the case of the comparatively small acreage of the scheduled land occupied by ex-Service men as small holdings, particulars of sale are sent to the county councils, the statutory authority for land settlement purposes, with an intimation that any of the land would be sold on the basis of a perpetual annuity, and it is hoped that by that means none of the ex-Service men will be dispossessed.(5) Upwards of 9,000 acres have been let either directly or indirectly to ex-Service men who served their country in the Great War.(4) About 70,000 acres of agricultural land in England and Wales will remain the property of the Crown when the above sales have been completed.(3) A further 10,109 acres have been scheduled for sale this year, the estimated value of which is £202,200.(2) £95,665 was realised by such sales, and the money has been invested in the name of the Treasury in long-dated Government securities by, and on the advice of, the National Debt Commissioners. Contracts have been entered into during the current financial year for the sale of 470 acres for £49,675, and a farm of 264 acres has been sold to the Cheshire County Council under Section 9 of the Land Settlement (Facilities) Act, 1919, for a perpetual annuity of £720.504ex-officio(1) The Commissioners of Woods are empowered by an Act in the reign of George IV to sell any part of the land revenues in their charge except Royal forests, parks, or chases, and, under Section 60 of that Act, no sale of a property of a value in excess of £100 shall be made without the previous authority of the Commissioners of His Majesty's Treasury for the time being, signified by Warrant. Since that Act was passed in 1829 many sales of Crown Lands have taken place. The area of the agricultural land, under the charge of the Minister of Agriculture as504ex-officioTHE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OFANCASTER)
: My Lords, since I addressed your Lordships yesterday on the subject of Ireland a development has taken place of which it is proper you should be apprised. After I had spoken yesterday, Mr. Barton, Mr. McGrath and Mr. O'Brien reached London conveying to the Prime Minister a message from Mr. de Valera in relation to the offer of which I had previously- spoken to your Lordships. As the House is aware, the Prime Minister is at the present moment in Paris. The communication has been sent on to him by aeroplane, and, so far as one may conjecture, has been received at the moment I am now addressing the House. In those circumstances, though I am not in a position to say more as to the tenour of the reply, I ought to modify what I said yesterday by making plain that in my view, having regard to what has happened, a statement will necessarily be made both in this House and elsewhere on Tuesday next.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: My Lords, I do not know whether the noble and learned Lord, Lord Parmoor, is going to press his Motion, but if so, I should fail to agree with him on that point.LORD ASKWITH
: Then it will not come up at all?LORD ASKWITH
499: I should have opposed it for this reason: if this Bill goes through, it might just as well go through in a short time as he postponed to some later date. Lord Parmoor has pointed out very clearly that the principle of competition practically disappears under this Bill. That is the principle upon which our railway legislation has been based. Competition is mentioned only in one clause of the whole Bill—namely, in Clause 52, where, upon new circuitous routes, if the Minister considers that the proposal involves unreasonable competition, he may refer the matter to the Rates Tribunal. Further, the control of the railways by Parliament largely goes by the board. The control of Parliament appears only in Clause 31, dealing with the standard charges and also with the limit beyond which an increase in those charges shall not be levied without reference to Parliament. Lord Parmoor mentioned that the maxima had gone, but, as I read the Bill, it rather retains the maxima, which have to be brought before Parliament in a Report which the Minister has to submit to both Houses of Parliament, and which then have to be based upon Resolutions of both Houses.499LORD ASKWITH
versus494: My Lords, I wish very briefly to ask one question on the arrangement of the railways. The main point of the Bill is Part I; that is to say, the re-arrangement of the railways of England into great groups. But there is one railway, of which I was a director for a good many years, the Somerset and Dorset Railway, which does not appear in the schedule. I know from the figures of the noble Earl and of the Government generally, that they always think in millions and Empires, but after all in the case of a railway line that runs from Bristol to Bournemouth, and where it is really a
versus494LORD FARRER
con amore496495: My Lords, I think it possibly may be of advantage to your Lordships if, as chairman of the Railway Companies' Association and claiming to speak for a very large majority of the railways of the country, I make now the very few remarks which I wish to make to your Lordships. If I may respectfully say so, I cannot help thinking that the points raised by the two noble Lords who spoke last are points essentially for Committee rather than for Second Reading. However that may be, I have no doubt that when we get to that stage they will be considered.con amore496495VISCOUNT CHURCHILL
: I am told that, in form, my Amendment is out of order, and therefore I could not press it.LORD PARMOOR
492ad infinitum491"If the Minister is of opinion that any company has granted exceptional fares in such a manner
491"As from the appointed day all statutory provisions, and the provisions of all agreements with respect to classification of merchandise and with respect to charges for or in connection with the carriage of merchandise or passengers by any railway which becomes a railway of an amalgamated company, or of a railway company to which any schedule of standard charges is applied, shall to the extent to which these provisions relate to the matters aforesaid he repealed and cease to be operative."490489488"Of the permanent members of the rates tribunal one shall be a person of experience in com-
488"without the consent of the Minister to enter into agreements with any constituent or subsidiary company in another group or with any other amalgamated company, as the case may be, for the allocation of traffic""it shall not be lawful for any…"487486485484483 had given Notice, on the Motion for the Second Reading, to move, "That Parts II, III, IV, and V be postponed and included in a separate Bill." The noble and learned Lord said:492ad infinitum491"If the Minister is of opinion that any company has granted exceptional fares in such a manner
491"As from the appointed day all statutory provisions, and the provisions of all agreements with respect to classification of merchandise and with respect to charges for or in connection with the carriage of merchandise or passengers by any railway which becomes a railway of an amalgamated company, or of a railway company to which any schedule of standard charges is applied, shall to the extent to which these provisions relate to the matters aforesaid he repealed and cease to be operative."490489488"Of the permanent members of the rates tribunal one shall be a person of experience in com-
488"without the consent of the Minister to enter into agreements with any constituent or subsidiary company in another group or with any other amalgamated company, as the case may be, for the allocation of traffic""it shall not be lawful for any…"487486485484483LORD PARMOOR
: Yes, that is so.LORD PARMOOR
: Perhaps I may say to the noble Earl that I propose to move that Motion only as regards Parts II and III.LORD PARMOOR
: I do not think soLORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, I did not intend to say anything on the Second Reading. but as two noble Lords have thought fit to attack the North Eastern Railway Company, of which I happen to be chairman, I think it is necessary for me to indicate that we shall have plenty to say, but this is not the proper time to say it. The noble Lord, Lord Nunburnholme, has told us that he intends to put down an Amendment to carry out his views with regard to the Hull and Barnsley Railway. If I were to go into that question now it would mean inflicting two speeches on that subject, and I shall be consulting the general convenience of your Lordships if I say that the observations we have to make on that particular subject will be reserved until the Amendment is brought forward in Committee.LORD KNARESBOROUGH
: I am very much obliged to the noble Earl.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
455: May I be permitted to say one other word upon a different point? The noble Earl was
455THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: By two Standing Committees. I must say that if the noble Marquess, the Leader of the Opposition, required a justification for his Motion, which was unfortunately unsuccessful, he is abundantly avenged by the account which the noble Earl gives of how business is to be transacted in the ensuing days of the session. As I have said, we were in a minority, and it is no business of ours to do more than enter a respectful protest. But as to the revising power of your Lordships' House, it is gone.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
453: My Lords, I do not want to take up the time of your Lordships, especially as the Leader of the Opposition is now in his place, but perhaps you will allow me to recite the situation as regards the Railways Bill. This Bill was urged upon us by the Government, and we were told that it was essential that it should be passed before the adjournment, although many of us were reluctant to take that course. We asked certain noble colleagues of ours, sitting in all parts of your Lordships' House, to meet the experts of the Government, and they were convinced that it was necessary that this Bill should be passed before the holidays. But it was agreed on all hands that the House had shown, if I may say so, great self-restraint in not vindicating its power of postponing the Bill. Having regard to the public interests, we all thought it was our duty to give way. Then came the debate upon the Motion of my noble friend, the Leader of the Opposition, who is now in his place. Your Lordships decided that there was no reason why all the business which has to be transacted in the present session should not be transacted before the adjournment. We took a different view, and urged it very strongly upon your Lordships, but we accept, of course, the decision of the House. We were overborne by the majority of your Lordships.453THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, may I ask the noble Earl the First Commissioner of Works a question as to business. There was sonic doubt at the adjournment yesterday as to what day would be fixed for the Committee stage of the Railways Bill which we shall probably read a second time this afternoon. I have not been able to get in touch with many of those upon whom I greatly rely, but I think that Monday will be unduly soon for the Committee stage. I do not desire for a moment to stand in the way of the convenience of noble Lords, if it is the general opinion that Monday is a convenient date, but I would remind the noble Earl that the Leader of the House, when we were discussing business on the Motion of the Leader of the Opposition, entered into what I think was an engagement—certainly an assurance—that there would be the fullest time granted for the discussion of the Railways Bill. That was one of his points, and I do not think anything in the nature of an undue hurrying of the Bill—a great deal, of course, depends upon the adjective—would be reasonable or right, having regard to the previous history of this question. I speak merely in the interests of your Lordships. I do not pretend to know the Bill, though, of course, I have read it, but I see Lord Emmott in his place and his advice as to whether the Committee stage should be taken on Monday or at a later date will be very valuable.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: The Amendment in my name is drafting.THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
521: I formally move the Amendment (to leave out"and Monmouthshire"in the proviso to subsection (1) ) standing in the name of the noble Lord, Lord Clifford of Chudleigh, in order to hear from the Government what their defence is for including Monmouthshire in the Sunday closing clause. I will only say that, though I have no personal knowledge of the subject, I understand that almost all the authorities in Monmouthshire are opposed to this inclusion. I speak in the presence of noble Lords from Wales who will, of course, be able to inform your Lordships very much more accurately than I can, but I believe I am on sure ground when I say that all the Members for Monmouthshire in another place were opposed to its inclusion, and there is a very large body of opinion which resist it. I believe rumour has it that a petition, a mile and a half long, against the inclusion of Monmouth in the Sunday closing clause has been presented. However, I only move the Amendment formally. Of course, it depends upon the reply of the noble Vis-
521THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I do not think the noble Marquess is very accurately informed as to the state of opinion, so far as it has been expressed, in Monmouthshire. He says all the Monmouthshire Members of Parliament are against, its inclusion. Four out of six are in favour of it, and so voted. Again, the matter was brought up about a week ago before the Monmouth County Council, and, with one dissentient, the whole council voted for inclusion. I do not know about the petition of a mile in length, or how far it affects the mind of the noble Marquess, but so far as the authorities have been able to express themselves, they have been the other way. As the noble Marquess knows, in most modern legislation Monmouthshire is included in Wales. Moreover, the relative position of such towns as Newport and Cardiff would make it obviously a rather convenient thing to place Monmouth and Wales under the smite law. I could elaborate the matter at greater length, but I think the expression of opinion by the authorities is sufficient.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I want to support this Amendment very strongly. I have been pretty closely into this matter in the last few days, and, for the life of me, I cannot make out that any case has really been established for the inclusion of Monmouth, which is against, I believe, public feeling generally in that county. I think it is a very unfortunate method of forcibly including Monmouth in the Sunday closing clause, and so far as my information goes the great majority of the people there do not want it at all. I want to be as short as I can in this matter, but I wish to point out one or two things which I think ought to guide your Lordships. We hear a good deal now about compromises and agreed Bills. I should like to ask who has agreed to this particular inclusion of Monmouth in the Sunday closing clause.THE EARL OF PLYMOUTH
: The Monmouth County Council.VISCOUNT PEEL
522: But the Monmouth County Council were not elected for the specific purpose of giving a vote
522THE EARL OF PLYMOUTH
: Who did vote.VISCOUNT PEEL
524523" say they would welcome it as they say they have a majority. It is impossible for anybody to show where the majority lies, and for that reason it should be loft to the people of Monmouth to decide for themselves."" Monmouth is in a roost difficult position. There are border counties between England and Scotland, and between England and Wales. But there is no county fixed exactly like Monmouth. For that reason my opinion is that a plebiscite of the people of Monmouth ought to be taken to settle this point of principle, and it should not be left to three or four members. The licensed victuallers believe they have a majority and have offered to pay half the cost of a referendum The temperance and Church people—": Yes; who did vote. He says this:—
524523" say they would welcome it as they say they have a majority. It is impossible for anybody to show where the majority lies, and for that reason it should be loft to the people of Monmouth to decide for themselves."" Monmouth is in a roost difficult position. There are border counties between England and Scotland, and between England and Wales. But there is no county fixed exactly like Monmouth. For that reason my opinion is that a plebiscite of the people of Monmouth ought to be taken to settle this point of principle, and it should not be left to three or four members. The licensed victuallers believe they have a majority and have offered to pay half the cost of a referendum The temperance and Church people—"THE EARL OF PLYMOUTH
525: I always feel it difficult to oppose anything said by the noble Earl who has just sat down, but the House will allow me very briefly to lay before it the grounds on which I think that the decision already arrived at with regard to the inclusion of Monmouthshire in Wales for Sunday closing purposes should be adhered to. A reference has been made to the petition presented to this House from those who have expressed the view in Monmouthshire contrary to the policy of this Bill. I do not think it is necessary for us at this stage to go into the question of the degree of weight to be attached to evidence of this kind. Before we could come to any decision on that point the petition would have to be scrutinized. But I think I shall carry most of the House with me when I say that the real evidence about local opinion upon a matter of this kind is not a
525LORD CLWYD
: For all Legislative purposes?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: For all legislative purposes, including this legislation which is now before the House.LORD CLWYD
: Had it special reference to Sunday closing?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
526: The: debate took place on Sunday closing. It was admitted and recognised that the point of the discussion was to obtain an expression of opinion at the present time as to the view of the County Council of Monmouth upon the question. The House might also like to be reminded of the opinion of Labour leaders in South Wales upon the point. Within the last fortnight, Mr. Hartshorn, a Labour leader of admitted weight in South Wales, as the noble Marquess knows, expressed his deep conviction that if the vote of the electorate of Monmouthshire were taken to-morrow, there would be an overwhelming majority in favour of closing public houses on Sunday there.526LORD CLWYD
: In reference to the Amendment which stands on the Paper in my name, I have been requested to lay before the House a petition signed by 78,102 persons. Those signatures have all been obtained since Sunday last. The petition runs in this way—LORD CLIFFORD OF CHUDLEIGH
530: The discussion to which this Amendment has given rise, has, I think, revealed that the case is riot so complete in favour of Sunday closing as my noble friend in charge of the Bill seemed to have imagined. We have had a very remarkable speech from the noble Earl, Lord Plymouth, who is a great authority on Welsh matters, and who has made a special study of public opinion in Monmouthshire in reference to this very point. He has told your Lordships that he is by no means satisfied that public opinion is in favour of Sunday closing in Monmouthshire. I recognise, of course, that he has not carried with him the whole of Welsh opinion in your Lordships' House. We have also heard the speech of the noble Lord, Lord Clwyd, who told us that in his judgment the balance of evidence is on the other side. I do not gather that he knew more than the actual vote of the Monmouthshire County Council. He was, of course, absolutely correct in what he stated, but I gather that he did not know more than the actual vote of the Monmouthshire County Council, and had not studied in any detail
530THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
had an Amendment on the Paper to move, in subsection (1) after"which"[" to which this section applies "] to insert"if and so long as." The noble. Lord said: This is practically drafting.LORD CLIFFORD OF CHUDLEIGH
: Would the noble Lord consider whether he will move it, because.I should have to oppose it on the ground that it does not mean anything? The sentence will not run if the words are inserted. Would the noble Lord be good enough to consider whether he wishes to move this Amendment? If, on further advice, he wishes to move it, he might do so at a later stage.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I would be quite prepared to do that. I have another Amendment on line 20; perhaps I could refer to the two together. If that Amendment on line 20 were inserted it would do away with that on line 6, which I might withdraw.LORD CLIFFORD OF CHUDLEIGH
: I have not seen the suggested Amendment on line 20 (which is not, on the Paper) until this moment, but, so far as I see, the later words are quite unnecessary, and the first words, I submit, do not mean anything.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I would suggest that the noble Lord should not press Amendments of a kind which are either drafting, or which are really matters for the Government themselves to decide as to the exact form of the Bill.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
532: Perhaps I have not expressed my meaning very well, but there is a real point in question as line 20 stands at present. I understand that as it reads now without the insertion of my words in line 20, it would be possible for clubs to be placed in the same position as an ordinary licensed house with
532LORD CLIFFORD OF CHUDLEIGH
: Yes.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I understand the Amendment is not moved.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
" (4) Where the licensing justices are satisfied that the licensed premises are structurally adapted and used in a bona fide manner as in this section provided, such premises shall be held to be premises to which section forty-five of the Finance (1909–1910) Act, 1910, applies."had an Amendment on the Paper, at the end of Clause 3, to add the following new sub-section—
" (4) Where the licensing justices are satisfied that the licensed premises are structurally adapted and used in a bona fide manner as in this section provided, such premises shall be held to be premises to which section forty-five of the Finance (1909–1910) Act, 1910, applies."LORD CLIFFORD OF CHUDLEIGH
: I do not know whether it would save the noble Lord's time if I pointed out that this Amendment is outside the scope of the Bill.VISCOUNT PEEL
533: In the absence of my noble friend, Lord Laming-ton, I was going to move a much longer Amendment (dealing with improved public houses) which is on the Paper. It will be seen that the Amendment of the noble Lord opposite introduces one of the clauses in Lord Lamington's Notice. I want to be perfectly reasonable in this matter, and I am sure my noble friend, Lord Laming-ton, is also desirous of being reasonable. I do not think it is reasonable to ask the Government at this stage to insert in this Bill a lot of new matter which is not part of the agreement that was arrived at with those with whom he discussed it. The
533THE EARL OF PLYMOUTH
534: I am afraid I am quite irregular in replying to the noble Earl, but perhaps the House will allow me to do so as it will save time. He has referred to an Amendment in the name of Lord Lamington after Clause 19 relating to the improvement of public houses. We are now discussing an Amendment which, I
534VISCOUNT PEEL
: What agreement?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: The agreement reached by the Committee and on which the Bill is based. Unfortunately, the words "improved public house"seems to raise a feeling amongst a certain section of the community, and if the Amendment was pressed and embodied in the Bill it would upset the whole delicate equipoise of the measure. I should be very glad to fall in with his desire and indicate to the Government the great advantages which may be obtained in some future Bill by some such words.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I am much obliged to the noble Lord for leaving it to the Government, because I am afraid I shall have to oppose the Amendment on the ground that it is quite inconsistent with the general scheme of the Bill.VISCOUNT PEEL
e: The Amendment in my name to leave out the word"registered"in paragraph (eVISCOUNT PEEL
: I will accept it.VISCOUNT PEEL
: The noble Duke tells us that. he is entirely unaware of the reason which has caused this restriction to be applied to Scotland and not to England, or why, in fact, we in this favoured country should have this"theatre-supper clause"and the people of Scotland should not. The main reason that I have heard is that Scotland is so full of admirably conducted persons who go to bed early that they have never developed the noxious supper habit that we have contracted in this country, and that there is apparently no demand—I say it with all respect to the noble Duke because I do not know what the demands are in Scotland—for this extension. At any rate, none was shown in another place, because this Amendment was not moved or even put down on the Committee stage there.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I think it was put down.THE DUKE OF BUCCLEUCH
: Not on the Committee stage. It was put down on the Report stage, but it was not moved.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Probably it was"guillotined,"THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I do not think so. This shows, I think, that there was not a very strong desire to restore the"theatresupper clause"to Scotland. I should like just to give the noble Duke one or two facts as regards the position as it was during the war and before the war. The existing law in Scotland is that licensed premises must close at 11 p.m., Licensing Courts having the power to fix the closing hour at 10 p.m. instead of 11 p.m. The power to substitute 10 p.m. for 11 p.m. was exercised by all the Licensing Courts, and for many years before the war all licensed premises in Scotland closed at 10 p.m. The noble Duke will see, therefore, that we are only reverting to the practice which existed in Scotland before the war. During the war the closing hour was 9 p.m.; the proposed closing hour is, therefore, an extension from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m.VISCOUNT PEEL
541: I have been asked by the Licensed Victuallers' Trade Defence Association to bring this matter forward, and I gave notice privately to my noble friend that I was going to do so, but I found an Amendment already put down in the name of the Duke of Buccleuch. What he has said is perfectly right, and I think something more should be said in reply than has been said by the noble Viscount. It is quite true that the arrangements for supper in Scotland are not organised in the same way as they are in London, but at the same time, a great many people coming from theatres have to go and get supper, and they cannot get a glass of beer or a glass of whisky with their food. Again, if you go into a town like Edinburgh late at night, or, shall we
541LORD SALTOUN
: I desire to add only one word in support of this Amendment. In spite of what Lord Peel said on behalf of the Government, I do desire to say that, whereas the Bill meets a real grievance now borne by restaurants and clubs in England and in Wales, by extending the hours during which alcoholic refreshment can be legally sold with meals beyond the hour of ten in the evening, yet, as the Bill stands, if toy reading of it is correct, 10 o'clock, or at latest 11 o'clock, will still remain the latest hour for this purpose in Scotland. If that be so, Scotland will surely have good ground for serious complaint. cannot think that it is equitable or right or fair, that in places such as Edinburgh., Glasgow and elsewhere, late at night, people should be debarred from obtaining that which, in London, they will be able to obtain until midnight, Nor can I believe that the Government desire to shackle this disparity upon my countrymen in Scotland. Therefore, I hope that my noble friend in charge of the Bill will consider whether, at a later stage, he can accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF KINTORE
: As an Englishman I sympathise with the views of noble Lords who have advocated this Amendment, and if they go to a Division I shall have pleasure in supporting them.LORD SOUTHWARK
542prima facie: hope that the Government will give way upon this Amendment. Here we have a case in which there is a lack of similarity between England and Scotland which 542prima facieTHE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: May I point out that on the Third Reading in another place, Sir John Hope said:"I withdrew my Amendment, which would have removed an injustice in another direction." That was this Amendment, and it was withdrawn for the purpose of getting something else.LORD SALTOUN
543: I am not at all insensible to the arguments used by noble Lords on the other side as to the results of
543VISCOUNT PEEL
: With regard to the observation of the noble Viscount I may say that opinion was strongly in favour of continuing licensed premises.THE DUKE OF BUCCLEUCH
: I have to move a drafting Amendment.VISCOUNT PEEL
: My Lords, this Bill is postponed until Monday.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: May I ask if this Bill applies to Ireland?THE EARL OF MAYO
: Can repeal it?THE EARL OF MAYO
548: A
548THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: My Lords, this is a very small measure which passed through the House of Commons without amendment, and is technically a Money Bill. It simply seeks to confer upon the Admiralty the powers which are at present enjoyed by the War Office, the Air Ministry, and the Ministry of Pensions, to commute pensions of the rank and file. This power has been recommended by Committees which have sat to consider the subject, and the Bill will merely have the effect of bringing the powers of the Admiralty into line with those of other Departments. The Bill also empowers the Admiralty to restore a pension which has been forfeited under the Forfeiture Act, 1870, and to pay or apply any part of the pension which has been restored to the pensioners for the benefit of wife, children, or other dependants whilst the pensioner himself is undergoing imprisonment. Clause 3 is necessitated by the conversion of the coastguards into a pensionable force. So far as I am aware the Bill is entirely non-contentious, and I hope your Lordships will give it a Second Reading.THE FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY (LORD LEE OF FAREHAM)
: This is a drafting Amendment.VISCOUNT PEEL
: These also are drafting Amendments.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Yes.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: Yes it does, but under the Government of Ireland Act the Irish Parliament can afterwards deal with the matter.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: My Lords, this is the annual Bill dealing with Customs in the Isle of Man. I beg to move that the Bill be read a second time.LORD HYLTON
: I beg to move that this House accepts this Amendment.THE LORD BISHOP OF NORWICH
571"Eight years ago the Home Secretary then very properly refused to consider any Amendment in this direction. It was not even brought before the House; it was turned down."570569568: My Lords, I am extremely sorry to raise a
571"Eight years ago the Home Secretary then very properly refused to consider any Amendment in this direction. It was not even brought before the House; it was turned down."570569568THE EARL OF MALMESBURY
574573572: My Lords, I desire to give my earnest support to the Motion of the noble Earl. I was rather startled that the right rev. Prelate should suggest that a matter of this kind, a new clause involving a serious alteration in the Criminal Law and creating a new offence —a course open to the greatest objection and of a very controversial character—should be accepted by this House, because the House of Commons would not have time to consider and deal with it and send it back here at this period of the session. I think if the noble Marquess, Lord Crewe, sought for any justification of the Motion he made the other night he could have no better illustration than the suggestion of the right rev. Prelate.574573572THE EARL OF DESART
in camera583: My Lords, I do not want to say more than two words upon this matter, because I think the noble and learned Viscount upon the Woolsack has really said everything that can be said. But I should like to express my agreement with him and to say, in addition, that apart
in camera583THE EARL OF DESART
"Licensing Bill. Tredegar Free Church Council 20 Churches representing 8,000 members and adherents solidly in favour of Sunday closing in Monmouthshire."590589588: My Lords, I understand that this Amendment of the noble Earl arises out of a debate on Friday, at which I was not present, on an Amendment of the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury, who consented not to press that Amendment in order that the Question might receive further discussion to-day. I think that the noble Earl would not question my right to speak with some authority on the feeling of Monmouthshire, but if, in any part of the House, there should be any doubt on that subject, I would like to point out the budget of evidence which I found here on my arrival this afternoon consisting of upwards of fifty telegrams and letters, in addition to a similar number which I
"Licensing Bill. Tredegar Free Church Council 20 Churches representing 8,000 members and adherents solidly in favour of Sunday closing in Monmouthshire."590589588LORD TREOWEN
: My Lords, your Lordships will have heard with interest. the divergent views of the two Border Lords on the question of the position in Glamorganshire and Monmouthshire. I gather that Lord Plymouth wants to have the best of both worlds for his supporters in Glamorganshire. He wants them to enjoy all the privileges and blessings of Sunday closing and also to have the right to go across the border into Monmouthshire in order to have all the other blessings of the consumption of liquors on Sunday in another county. We have had, however, a strong opinion from Lord Treowen on the general feeling which prevails on this subject in Monmouthshire. I do not know whether I ought to go into the general question as to whether Monmouthshire should be included or not in the Sunday closing portion of this Bill, as we discussed this fully on the Committee stage and your Lordships then decided to include Monmouthshire.THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
: There was no decision. It was withdrawn.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
592: I am much obliged. I must, however, address myself to the Amendment before the House, because the noble Earl has put forward what he no doubt, considers a practical proposal. I assure him I am not going to oppose him on some of the grounds he has put forward. I do not wish to oppose him on the ground that, whatever the feelings of the people in Monmouthshire are, this Act being a good Act, should, therefore, be imposed upon them. With pious and parental feelings of that kind I have not much sympathy. But he will see that really his Amendment is no more than a sketch and cannot carry out what he desires. The effect of the Amendment would be to exclude Monmouthshire altogether from the provisions of this Bill as regards Sunday hours, and until the referendum took place there would be no provision whatever as regards hours of opening or anything of the kind.592VISCOUNT PEEL
594prima facie593: My Lords, I admit that at this very late date it is difficult to legislate. That is an observation which I have had occasion to make very often during the last few days, and the reason we are driven to these expedients is the extraordinary way in which the business of Parliament is managed by His Majesty's present advisers. I have never adopted a very decided line upon the subject of Sunday closing. I admit most frankly that it stands upon a quite different footing from a great deal of other so-called temperance legislation which comes before Parliament. There is a great deal to be said for Sunday closing. I have never denied it, and I frankly admit it now.594prima facie593THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Four voted for this inclusion; but one expressed a. pious opinion in favour of a referendum.VISCOUNT PEEL
: A pious opinion, but none the worse for being pious! An opinion, shall we say, without an adjective—THE MARQUESS OE SALISBURY
: Academic.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Why academic? After all, we are discussing a point of opinion—THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: No, of voting.VISCOUNT PEEL
: The noble Lord behind me said that all the members for Monmouthshire were, in effect, of opinion.—THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: No.VISCOUNT PEEL
: My Lords, this is a short Bill designed to help certain small companies, and other water undertakings, who are in financial difficulties, by enabling them to increase the charges authorised under their statutory provisions. The Bill provides a cheap method by which these companies can increase their charges to such an extent as will enable them to meet any increase in the cost of carrying on their undertakings, attributable to circumstances arising since August 4, 1914, and which are beyond their control. The principle is not a new one, since the old Local Government Board, now the Ministry of Health, were empowered under the Public Health Act to alter the rates charged by public authorities, and this Bill merely gives the same power to undertakings authorised to provide water under Acts of Parliament other than the Public Health Act.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
576in camera: My Lords, the noble Earl, Lord Desart, was good enough to say that the proposal which I made the other day was reinforced by what has happened in relation to this Bill, and I cannot help thinking that it is a rather humiliating spectacle to see your Lordships given the choice between adopting an addition to this Bill, which has so far been defended by nobody in debate, on the one hand, and, on the other, incurring the possibility of losing the Bill altogether. How far that danger may be likely I am in no position to say. Probably there are one or two other provisions in the Bill which the House might have desired to amend. It seemed to me that the first of the Commons Amendments, making the consenting child guilty of a misdemeanour, is one open to a great deal of criticism, and I should certainly have refused to agree if I believed it to be possible. The noble Viscount on the Woolsack has also mentioned a further Commons Amendment, relating to the hearing of incest cases 576in cameraTHE MARQUESS OF CREWE
577casus belli: My Lords, as the noble Marquess has just said, we are placed on the horns of a dilemma in this matter, and I own, for myself, that I should find it, after the argument we have heard to-night, practically impossible to give any cordial support to the Amendment introduced in the House of Commons; but I hope your Lordships will realise how grave is the responsibility we take if we decide not to accept that Amendment, notwithstanding the risk that the Bill may perish in consequence. I should not, I think, if I were in the position of my right rev. brother, press his proposal against what is obviously the feeling of the House with regard to this particular matter, and if he should feel it to be right not to press it, and the House therefore accepts the position that we reject the Commons Amendment, I hope that the grave words addressed to the House and to the public from the Woolsack, as regards the effect of the rejection of this Bill, will be brought to the notice of those who choose this particular matter as a 577casus belliTHE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
: My Lords, I think that after the debate which has taken place it is only proper that I should ask leave to withdraw my Motion. I wish, however, to add one word, and it is this, that I am entirely in agreement with the arguments which have been directed against this clause. There is not one of them which has not my sympathy, but I had to balance between one thing and another, and on the whole I came to the conclusion that the merits of the Bill were great enough to allow to pass it even in a form which included so many demerits. I should be sorry, however, for anyone to suppose that I was in favour of the clause as it stands, and I repeat what I have said before, that this particular clause appears to me to be utterly irrelevant and undesirable. The reason why I commended it to your acceptance was that, on the balance, it was better to have the Bill than to run the risk of losing it. However, after what I have heard, I am glad to come down on the side of the arguments against the clause, with all of which I am in agreement, and all of which I had anticipated.THE LORD BISHOP OF NORWICH
: On this Amendment I put down a Motion to leave out"the court shall on conviction recommend such person"and to insert"he may on conviction be recommended," but I do not desire to press it to a Division. I really put it down as somehow I feel that, where a clause is made permissive rather than obligatory, there is a greater chance of conviction, because, if deportation follows conviction in every case, it appears to me that possibly the Court might be less ready to convict. If, however, the noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack is satisfied that the same result would be attained by leaving the words as they stand in the Commons Amendment, I will not move to disagree.THE EARL OF MALMESBURY
579: My Lords, I move that the House accept this Amendment. I still think that probably the rejection of the one Amendment with which we have disagreed has killed the Bill for the session. However, I suppose that any little hope there is of saving the Bill would be strengthened by our accepting as much as we possibly can, In regard to this particular Amendment, I think it might not work so very badly, after all. Anyhow, it appears to me to be a matter that might be dealt with in separate and particular legislation. If ever there was a subject that had to be handled piecemeal by the Legislature it is the subject before us now. If you look at the Schedule at the end you will see how many Acts have been already passed dealing with this subject. One Act, if I remember rightly, is an Act of a single clause. The subject is an exceedingly important one, but it appears to me to be part of a larger question, and I believe it needs to be carefully investigated, both as it concerns the points raised in this Bill, and in regard to divorce, and in regard to other unsavoury subjects, involving the relation of the public and the Press, the character of the crime, and the apparently conflicting rights of the many people concerned.579THE LORD BISHOP OF NORWICH
: Your Lordships will remember that, last week, the noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack intimated that he would make a statement upon Ireland on Tuesday, but since then, of course, a very important correspondence has been published in the newspapers, and I think it would be for the convenience of your Lordships' House if I were to ask the noble and learned Viscount what his intentions are with respect to making a statement to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, as the noble and learned Marquess has very justly stated, the situation has largely altered since I made that announcement, and the object of the statement at that time contemplated was to apprise the House of that which has since been published. If the noble Marquess will not think it inconvenient, I should be glad if he would address a Question to me a little later in the day, because I wish to get information from the House of Commons.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
552: Of course I will pursue that course, but I should like to put a question to the Leader of the House. He has upon the Order Paper a Motion to suspend certain Standing Orders for the remainder of the session. That seems to be a proper Motion to make at this period, but I think it is highly probable that your Lordships would wish to have a discussion upon Ireland before the Prorogation, and I imagine, having regard to the momentous character of the news in to-day's newspaper, that if a request were put forward, the Government would make every endeavour to enable it to be carried into effect. There is a Question standing in my name for next Friday, to which the Government have promised to give precedence. That has become entirely out of date now, because in it I ask the Government to do the very thing which they have now done—namely, reveal the correspondence between themselves and Mr. de Valera. It does not, however, make it less important, probably, that there should be a discussion on the Irish situation before the Prorogation. Before, therefore, the noble Earl moves his Motion, or, if he wishes, when he does move it, your Lordships would wish to know what the attitude of the Government would be with regard to such a discussion, because I am
552THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
555: My Lords, I have certainly no desire to oppose the Motion, but I must make one or two observations on what has just fallen from the noble Marquess. His arrangement is not only provisional, but it is a very closely packed arrangement. In the first place, I had better say la once that, in my opinion, unless the discussion on the Safeguarding of Industries Bill is to be curtailed to a very undue extent—that is to say, by making it impossible for some noble Lords who intended to take part in the debate to do so—I do not see how we can conclude.the debate on the Second Reading to-night. The speeches on a measure of that kind cannot be very short. It must be obvious, I think, to the noble Marquess that both the noble Viscount who is going to move the Second Reading of the Bill and my noble friend opposite (Lord Emmott), who is going to move its rejection, cannot develop their arguments in a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. There are a good many noble Lords who will desire to take some part in the debate, and it may not be altogether easy for them to make their speeches matters of minutes.555THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, with regard to the Amendments to the Corn Production Bill, if they come back with any alterations from the House of Commons, may on behalf of those who are interested in that Bill, ask the noble Marquess whether he could say why the understanding which was arrived at through the ordinary channels in this House, that they would be taken on Wednesday, is to be departed from, and why they are now being taken on Thursday?LORD STRACHIE
: My Lords, might I suggest to the noble Marquess that, in view of the very considerable congestion of business this week, your Lordships might be invited to sit at an earlier hour in the day, certainly not later than three o'clock. I anticipate that every effort is being made to terminate the business on Friday, and possibly on that day we might sit at an earlier hour, because undoubtedly the difficulty does arise later on that business may be conducted in a thin House.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
557: My Lords, let me say one more word about the Irish debate. The noble Marquess, the Leader of the Opposition, has questioned whether such a debate would be advisable. If, in the course of the next few days, it should appear that such a debate is inadvisable, we can, of course, reconsider the subject, but, as at present advised, I must say I agree with him in thinking it would be exceeding strange if so great an event should take place without discussion in Parliament. My noble friend the Leader of the House says he will give opportunity for discussion, and in that connection I should like to ask him two questions. In the first place, will he not require, in that event, to modify the form of his Motion? The Motion says that Government business is always to have precedence, and, unless he is prepared to say that the Irish debate shall be Government business, he is precluded from giving to it the opportunity he desires. That is one question.557THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Therefore, in Committee, those questions will be put. Suppose the answers of the Government are unsatisfactory, either because they themselves do not understand why the provisions are put into the Bill, or because they cannot satisfy the House that they ought to be put into the Bill, then, of course, Amendments will have to be prepared. How in the world are Amendments to be prepared in such a way that your Lordships can properly consider and discuss them, if the Report stage is to be taken on the very next day? I think the Government must see that this is a proceeding which is so absolutely unprecedented, even in this House—and that is saying a great deal—that the Government will shrink from it. I do not, of course, make these observations except as a humble remonstrance.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
558: My Lords, I will
558THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: What about meeting earlier, at three o'clock?THE EARL OF MAYO
interim.: I beg your Lordships' pardon. I think the suggestion of the noble Earl, Lord Midleton, was a very sound one, and I am quite disposed, for my own part, to meet at three o'clock on any day or on every day, if required, for the remainder of the session. As regards the hour of meeting on Friday, I would like to hold that over for the moment in order to see how we dispose of the business in the interim.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: It really is the Report stage, not the Committee stage. The Committee stage is fixed for to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I know. The Committee stage will take place to-morrow. The noble Marquess then urged that it would be rather hard to ask the House to take the Report stage on the succeeding day.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: I ask the Government to keep their mind open upon that point.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
559: I will; I will keep my mind open upon the point, but I should not like to give any pledge at this moment. Then my attention was called to the undertaking, of which I was unaware, which was alleged to have been given that the consideration of the Commons Amend-
559THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: Yes, on Wednesday.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: If that undertaking has been given we will endeavour to take it on Wednesday. I do not know that it makes a very great difference, but if it does, and if the undertaking has been given, we will endeavour to comply.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: No, I do not think that I said that.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Yes.THE, MARQUESS CURZON KEDLESTON
: What I said was that everybody agreed apparently with both the noble Marquesses that a discussion of that kind was necessary.THE. MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Oh no, that would have been a perfectly innocent remark, and I should not have drawn attention to it. Unfortunately, the noble Marquess, speaking, I imagine, for those behind him, said that everybody would desire to express their opinions upon the matter.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: No, I beg the noble Marquess's pardon. I did not say that. The noble Marquess has misunderstood me.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
" and that until that date Government business have, except with the consent of the Government, precedence over other Notices and Orders of the Day.": Anyhow, I hope that some measure of restraint will be exhibited in certain quarters of your Lordships' House. The noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury, was I think quite right in saying that the decision as to whether the discussion takes place or not, and when it takes place, must be largely governed by the public interest. I am certain that neither he nor anybody else would wish to inaugurate a discussion or to say anything which would be in the least inimical or dangerous to the settlement we all desire. Subject to that observation, I adhere to the proposals I made just now." and that until that date Government business have, except with the consent of the Government, precedence over other Notices and Orders of the Day."THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: You had better put the words in, I think.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Then I would propose to move the Motion which stands in my name in that form.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: My Lords, I beg to move that this Report be considered and adopted.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES
566: My Lords, in moving that the Commons Amendments to this Bill be now considered, I think it may be of advantage that I should say a few general words upon my attitude to the whole question, and so avoid repeating myself as each Amendment comes under review. That will save the time of the House. I hope that you will be ready to accept all the Commons Amendments. In asking you to do that; I do not for one moment say that I consider the Bill has been returned to us in an improved shape. On the contrary, I think that our Bill, as it left this House, was the better one. Moreover, it was a kind of agreed measure, as the result of the work of a Joint Committee. Therefore, I think it is rather a pity that in another place modifications were made in it, and some irrelevant matter introduced. I would also point out that in the House of Commons the Bill passed at a very late hour, when it was not likely to receive the consideration which, in other circumstances, might have been given to it. But in view of the time-table, and of the great congestion of business that there is in both Houses at the present time, I very urgently ask your Lordships to be willing to accept these Amendments. I have good grounds for fearing that, if your Lordships refuse to receive these Amendments, the whole Bill may be lost. I, for one, certainly consider that, though the Bill as it emerged from another place is not as good a Bill as it was when it left your Lordships' House, nevertheless there would be substantial gain in accepting the Amendments in order that the Bill may be passed.566THE LORD BISHOP OF NORWICH
603602: My Lords, I understand that this Bill has been certified by the Speaker of the House of Commons to be a Finance Bill, but it has been intimated to me by several noble Lords that they would prefer that I should not move the Second Reading with the rapidity which is usual in the case of Finance Bills, but that I should give sonic explanation of the clauses of the Bill and the reasons why it arose. I am afraid I shall have to deal separately with the two portions of the Bill —that relating to key industries, and that relating to the different, classes of dumping —because they arise from different causes and different considerations apply to them. The methods by which they are dealt with in the Bill also differ.603602VISCOUNT PEEL
: From Germany?LORD SHEFFIELD
614613612611610609608607606605604"Every one of these articles—glass, chemicals, dyes, electrical apparatus, and I could name about a dozen others—was used in industries of vast importance, not only to us as a great commercial country but as a fighting country. Without these glass articles, without some of the porcelain articles which are essential for electrical construction, without the best type of magneto, without some of the best of our chemicals, and without the great range of dyes which used to he manufactured in Germany, we were placed at a great disadvantage. Never again should that happen.": I do not know whether it is only from Germany. But unless some action is taken we shall be presenting Germany with full command of the whole of that industry in this country. As regards taking action to assist these particular key industries, we have, I think, plenty of authority, and one authority I should like to quote, because he was one of the first prominent officials to draw attention to the risks that we were running. I am referring to a speech made by Mr. Runciman in the House of Commons on January 10, 1916. He was then occupying the position of President of the Board of Trade. He said—
614613612611610609608607606605604"Every one of these articles—glass, chemicals, dyes, electrical apparatus, and I could name about a dozen others—was used in industries of vast importance, not only to us as a great commercial country but as a fighting country. Without these glass articles, without some of the porcelain articles which are essential for electrical construction, without the best type of magneto, without some of the best of our chemicals, and without the great range of dyes which used to he manufactured in Germany, we were placed at a great disadvantage. Never again should that happen."VISCOUNT PEEL
: It is a less vulgar comparison.VISCOUNT PEEL
618toto calo"There should be established some strong and competent Board to examine into all applications from industries for State assistance, to advise His Majesty's Government upon such applications, and where a case is made out to frame proposals as to the precise nature and extent of the assistance to be given, whether by protective tariff duties or in other ways"617616615: I agree that it is a less vulgar comparison. I really do not know—and I was listening very carefully to my noble friend in order to find out—whether he views this Bill with much hope or not. At any rate, he was very careful to deal with the mechanism of the Bill rather than with its principles, For my part, I am afraid I am not so much concerned about its mechanism as about the principles which underlie it. Whether rightly or wrongly, there is a movement hack to Protection at the present time and it is very extraordinary that the tendencies of economic thought in this country now should be so profoundly different from what they were a hundred years ago, after the last great war. The tendency of the economic thought of the country as a whole, and
618toto calo"There should be established some strong and competent Board to examine into all applications from industries for State assistance, to advise His Majesty's Government upon such applications, and where a case is made out to frame proposals as to the precise nature and extent of the assistance to be given, whether by protective tariff duties or in other ways"617616615LORD EMMOTT
: I had better answer all the points together.VISCOUNT PEEL
tu quoques627626625624pro tanto623conspros622 in toto621620619: It is not essential to my argument, but it is an important point. Are all the goods row leaving Germany already subject to an export duty? It is called 26 per cent., but practically it is 35 per cent. I am going to try to show that such figures as 'I have been able to find, in the absence of Government statistics, do not prove any case for the exchange provisions of this Bill; in the second place, that France and Germany are the only countries likely to be affected by them; in the third place, that, as between France and Germany, they are grossly unfair to France, and favourable to Germany; in the fourth place, that Germany must quickly take steps enormously to increase her taxation, with a corresponding effect on exchange, or I think she must go into national bankruptcy, which would mean anarchy and chaos, and diminish or destroy her competitive power; and, lastly, as it is admitted on all sides that adjustments
tu quoques627626625624pro tanto623conspros622 in toto621620619LORD EMMOTT
: I did not argue that.VISCOUNT PEEL
629prima facie"The Allies decide to take the necessary steps without delay to render themselves independent of the enemy countries in so far as regards the raw materials and manufactured articles essential to the normal development of their economic activities.""They may, for example, have recourse either to enterprises subsidised, directed or controlled by the Government's themselves, or to the grant of financial assistance for the encouragement of scientific and technical research and the development of national industries and resources; to customs duties or prohibitions of a temporary or permanent character; or to a combination of these different methods."628regimé"In order to defend their commerce, their industry, their agriculture and their navigation against economic aggression resulting from dumping or any other mode of unfair competition the Allies decide to fix by agreement a period of time during which the commerce of the enemy Powers shall be submitted to special treatment and the goods originating in their countries shall be subjected either to prohibitions or to a special regimé"the Allies agree that the benefit of this [mostfavoured-nation] treatment shall not be granted to those Powers [enemy Powers.] during a number of years to be fixed by mutual agreement among themselves."tu quoques: But other people have done so. The noble Viscount, I noticed, evaded the point. As I say, it is one of those unconvincing Parliamentary 629prima facie"The Allies decide to take the necessary steps without delay to render themselves independent of the enemy countries in so far as regards the raw materials and manufactured articles essential to the normal development of their economic activities.""They may, for example, have recourse either to enterprises subsidised, directed or controlled by the Government's themselves, or to the grant of financial assistance for the encouragement of scientific and technical research and the development of national industries and resources; to customs duties or prohibitions of a temporary or permanent character; or to a combination of these different methods."628regimé"In order to defend their commerce, their industry, their agriculture and their navigation against economic aggression resulting from dumping or any other mode of unfair competition the Allies decide to fix by agreement a period of time during which the commerce of the enemy Powers shall be submitted to special treatment and the goods originating in their countries shall be subjected either to prohibitions or to a special regimé"the Allies agree that the benefit of this [mostfavoured-nation] treatment shall not be granted to those Powers [enemy Powers.] during a number of years to be fixed by mutual agreement among themselves."tu quoquesLORD EMMOTT
"if any person by whom any duty has been paid proves to the satisfaction of the Commissioners that the goods were on the first sale thereof sold at a price which was not less than the cost of production of the goods …"635634633632631630: My Lords, dealing with this Bill is like hitting a pillow there is no resistance, and your blows do not go home. There is no vitality or life in the support given to this measure. The Bill is 'nominally brought in to redeem certain pledges, but it goes far beyond those pledges. There is no conviction behind it on the part of those who introduced it; no active support on the part of those who vote for it, and it is entirely alien to the great mass of business people who will he subject to it."if any person by whom any duty has been paid proves to the satisfaction of the Commissioners that the goods were on the first sale thereof sold at a price which was not less than the cost of production of the goods …"635634633632631630LORD SHEFFIELD
: I am quite ready to answer that, but perhaps I had better do it later when I answer other points.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I will give way if the noble Viscount wishes to answer now.LORD SHEFFIELD
: I am challenged on various points, and I am perfectly ready to answer immediately, but I think it will be snore convenient if I reserve my answer to the end of the debate. I do not want to disturb the speeches of noble Lords. There is a very ready answer to that.VISCOUNT PEEL
: If Lord Emmott made a bad point, which had no substance, and if I am emphasising that bad point, I think it would be more convenient if that was disposed of at once, unless there is something in it which has substance. Perhaps the noble Lord would prefer to wait until the end and answer everything when no one can reply to him.LORD SHEFFIELD
prima facie636: If the noble Lord takes that attitude, I think I had better reply at once, because there is a very easy and very obvious answer to his contention. He has not, I think, understood, if I may say so, the provisions of the Bill. I flattered myself that I had set out rather fully the very points to which he had referred. His question is, first of all, will there be penalties imposed on a single case of dumping?—and he mentioned a suns of £50,000. Clearly that will not be
prima facie636VISCOUNT PEEL
: The noble Viscount's answer may be satisfactory to himself, but it is not satisfactory to me.LORD SHEFFIELD
: It is to others.VISCOUNT PEEL
637: The noble Viscount says that the first act of dumping, the £50,000 business that. Lord Emmott suggested, will not arouse the vigilance and activity of the Committee; but that a few cases of complaint will arouse their vigilance and activity. It is perfectly true also that the Bill contains some palliatives. The Committee have to be satisfied that the dumping will materially affect employment. They have to be
637LORD SHEFFIELD
: Quite.VISCOUNT PEEL
: That is it.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Those are, so far, the palliatives in the Bill which were put in after the Bill was introduced, and were not originally in the mind of the Government. But they do not get over the fact, which is now admitted, that if once a case of dumping is made out—it may not be by the whole of that trade in the country, but by a particular ring of manufacturers —you may boycott., as it were, the whole of that particular kind of product; the whole of the pig-iron or raw steel of the country, say, and the Custom House will have to put the Order in force, and then throw on the importer, although he may be importing from some innocent producer who has never been in the ring, and is producing at a perfectly bona fide price—you will have to put upon him and his shipper the burden of showing that it is shipped honestly. Theoretically, you may say that ultimately this man will lose nothing; but does a loan lose nothing if he has to wait weeks, and perhaps months, before he has established his case? It is clear it will be a very serious interference with trade.LORD SHEFFIELD
: He will not have to wait months. It will be done immediately. He has only to produce his certificate of origin showing the cost of the goods in the country. I do not want to interrupt, but I thought the noble Lord liked to be answered on the spot.VISCOUNT PEEL
643s642"The export tax on engineering products which ranged from six per cent. to ten per cent. at one time threatened to obliterate export business, and after many protests from this industry this was reduced.…The minimum tax is now three per cent.""Wage increases are estimated to represent an advance over 1913 rates of from 10 to 15 times per ton of product …Costs of production on the other hand are estimated to have increased 20 to 10 times."641640ds639638: The noble Viscount has much greater confidence in the rapidity of the action of Government Departments than have the sufferers whose letters we see day after day in the newspapers, complaining that they have been waiting so long for payment that is due to them. If this Bill is ever put into operation we shall see the same complaints of delays and obstructions.643s642"The export tax on engineering products which ranged from six per cent. to ten per cent. at one time threatened to obliterate export business, and after many protests from this industry this was reduced.…The minimum tax is now three per cent.""Wage increases are estimated to represent an advance over 1913 rates of from 10 to 15 times per ton of product …Costs of production on the other hand are estimated to have increased 20 to 10 times."641640ds639638LORD SHEFFIELD
645644: My Lords, I had the honour of sitting on the Committee of which Lord Balfour of Burleigh was chairman, and in the investigations of that Committee there were certain trades that came out essentially as matters of very deep concern. Out of the number of sub-committees that reported to the Committee I think the bulk of them desired Protection. The only exception, I fancy, was the great cotton trade of Lancashire. But the Government have not taken the Report of the Committee into this Bill. They have only taken that portion of it which had regard to national
645644LORD COLWYN
650649648"While there is much scientific apparatus made in the British Isles of a quality at least as good as that imported, it is, unfortunately, very costly. But there arc also many other articles which our manufacturers have not yet learned to produce in anything like a satisfactory quality. The result of restricting the importation of good articles by a heavy duty would be to compel scientific workers to use home-made goods. There would be no hardship if those goods were satisfactory. But such is by no means always the case, and we are then penalised by waste of time and frequent. loss of experimental results. Moreover, if inferior goods obtain a sale by methods of this kind, no inducement is given to the makers to improve the quality."647646: My Lords, I hesitate to intervene in such a debate as this, especially after you have listened to so great an industrial expert as the noble Lord opposite. I find myself in exactly the converse position from that which he occupies, for, although I do not speak from the same rather extreme Free Trade standpoint as most of those who have addressed your Lordships, I am bound to say I find it quite impossible to support this Bill. Indeed, I should be rather surprised if any one who has been so closely associated as
650649648"While there is much scientific apparatus made in the British Isles of a quality at least as good as that imported, it is, unfortunately, very costly. But there arc also many other articles which our manufacturers have not yet learned to produce in anything like a satisfactory quality. The result of restricting the importation of good articles by a heavy duty would be to compel scientific workers to use home-made goods. There would be no hardship if those goods were satisfactory. But such is by no means always the case, and we are then penalised by waste of time and frequent. loss of experimental results. Moreover, if inferior goods obtain a sale by methods of this kind, no inducement is given to the makers to improve the quality."647646LORD BLEDISLOE
652651: My Lords, it is difficult to add to what has been said by the noble Lord who sits below me (Lord Emmott), but there are some portions of his argument. which I think may not be worse for reiteration. I will first of all deal with the point with regard to key industries. At the time when we are professing to be at peace, when we set up a League of Nations to preserve peace, when we are talking about asking for a reduction of armaments, is it really necessary that we should have a war measure with regard to these key industries? If it is the melancholy fact that it is, let us do it in an honest and manly way; let us support and subsidise those key industries which we think must be regulated in order to enable us to unlock the greater trades and businesses. Protection—and it is pure protection—has only this one defect; it raises the price of these valuable industries to our own people.652651LORD PHILLIMORE
662661"Under Clauses 2 and 3, it is proposed to place a tax of 33⅓ per cent. on any class of foreign manufactured goods if merely offered to us at lower prices than those charged in the country of origin; or if, owing to the unfavourable rate of exchange, the price happens to be lower than prices ruling in Britain for the same class of goods. That is to say, it is to be made a crime to buy cheap foreign goods in future. Yet if one looks at the daily trade reports it will be seen that British makers to-day are selling British goods for shipment abroad at 10 per cent. to 20 per cent, less than home prices. Probably not more than 1 per cent. of the materials which we buy from the Continent could be called dumped goods, but under this Bill that would be sufficient to bring the other 99 per cent. within the tax of 33⅓ per cent. and that for three years,""One result of the Bill, if passed, will be to dislocate many important British export industries which have been scientifically built up during many years upon cheap foreign imports. It is essential to the life of these industries that a free and uninterrupted flow of certain Continental materials be maintained. Hundreds of thousands of tons of light steel sheet bars have been imported annually for years which could not he procured in Scotland. These have been made into hundreds of thousands of tons of galvanised sheets annually for export, without which this trade would have been lost to Britain."660"which is the main object of the Protectionist, restricted demand follows, and the possibilities of employment arc correspondingly reduced. This affects not only the industry immediately involved, but also other industries for which the protected articles are necessary. The engineering and textile industries, for instance, would be handicapped by high prices and restricted supply of materials necessary for those industries.""The supporters of the Bill declare that Protection will increase the possibilities of employment for those engaged in the protected industries. Experience demonstrates that where high prices are secured—"659658657656655654653: My Lords, I think noble Lords who are interested in this question have some right to complain of the way in which we are forced to discuss it so hurriedly. The First Reading was taken only at the last sitting of the House, and we are occupied at a late hour, before some of the
662661"Under Clauses 2 and 3, it is proposed to place a tax of 33⅓ per cent. on any class of foreign manufactured goods if merely offered to us at lower prices than those charged in the country of origin; or if, owing to the unfavourable rate of exchange, the price happens to be lower than prices ruling in Britain for the same class of goods. That is to say, it is to be made a crime to buy cheap foreign goods in future. Yet if one looks at the daily trade reports it will be seen that British makers to-day are selling British goods for shipment abroad at 10 per cent. to 20 per cent, less than home prices. Probably not more than 1 per cent. of the materials which we buy from the Continent could be called dumped goods, but under this Bill that would be sufficient to bring the other 99 per cent. within the tax of 33⅓ per cent. and that for three years,""One result of the Bill, if passed, will be to dislocate many important British export industries which have been scientifically built up during many years upon cheap foreign imports. It is essential to the life of these industries that a free and uninterrupted flow of certain Continental materials be maintained. Hundreds of thousands of tons of light steel sheet bars have been imported annually for years which could not he procured in Scotland. These have been made into hundreds of thousands of tons of galvanised sheets annually for export, without which this trade would have been lost to Britain."660"which is the main object of the Protectionist, restricted demand follows, and the possibilities of employment arc correspondingly reduced. This affects not only the industry immediately involved, but also other industries for which the protected articles are necessary. The engineering and textile industries, for instance, would be handicapped by high prices and restricted supply of materials necessary for those industries.""The supporters of the Bill declare that Protection will increase the possibilities of employment for those engaged in the protected industries. Experience demonstrates that where high prices are secured—"659658657656655654653EARL BEAUCHAMP
663: My Lords, I will not detain your Lordships long at this late hour, but as I intend to vote against the Bill, I should like to say why I intend to do so. I listened with great interest to the speech of Lord Colwyn, who was a member of the Committee which fixed the various items in the Schedule. I presume he is going to support it. Had the Bill been confined to the various articles in the Schedule, I question whether there would have been much opposition to it. I believe it is the intention of all your Lordships to do everything you can to be prepared for the next war. We are all agreed that it is very necessary to look ahead and be prepared with such things as scientific glasses so absolutely necessary in war. But this Bill deals with a good deal more than that. I am thoroughly in sympathy with the remark that this is a Protectionist measure. Every industry in the country may appeal through the Committee to the Board of Trade in order to be protected. The various industries to be protected are not limited to those mentioned in the Schedule. The noble Lord opposite, who is so deeply concerned with agriculture and so capable to advise in connection with that important industry, is dissatisfied because it is not included in the Bill. I question whether, if you went round the various industries, you would find one which did not think it unfair that it should not be protected.663LORD JOICEY
665664: My Lords, I should not have intervened in this debate had it not been for the speech of my noble
665664LORD CAWLEY
666: My Lords, I understand that His Majesty's Govern-
666THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
668667: My Lords, the noble Lord has asked a very important Question, and I would gladly have avoided adding to the many responsibilities which I discharge the special responsibility in connection with these Pension Appeal Tribunals, which in the event I was not able to resist. The demand for an independent Tribunal whose decision should be final was the demand of the ex-Service men, as represented to the Select Committee on Pensions, and the terms of Section 8 of the War Pensions Act, 1919, which provide for finality of decision, were passed with the full approval of both Houses of Parliament in 1919. It was inevitable that appellants who considered their claims good, should, in some cases, be dissatisfied with the finding of the
668667THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I am much indebted to the noble and learned Viscount for the reply which he has just made and for the sympathy shown by him. I do hope that it may not be found to he beyond the wit of man to devise sonic means of dealing with this matter.LORD TREOWEN
599598: My Lords, in moving the Second Reading of this Bill I must state that the object of the measure is to permit the Duchy of Lancaster to realise capital to the extent of £100,000, and apply the same as revenue. Your Lordships are aware, no doubt, of the large deficit that there is now upon the Civil List. You are probably aware, also, that that deficit has arisen through the general rise of prices, and so on, which has increased the cost of almost everything to which the Civil List is applied. I do not think I need go into details of the deficit, which have already been very fully set out.599598VISCOUNT PEEL
584: My Lords, the object of this Bill is two-fold. In the first place, it proposes to extend the time during which loans for the settlement of ex-Service men on the land may be granted by the Public Works Loan Commissioners both in England and Scotland. Under the Land Settlement (Facilities) Act, 1919, the
584THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (The EARL OF ANCASTER)
575: My Lords, the noble Earl who has just spoken has made so weighty a protest against the change introduced in the House of Commons that to the merits of his argument it is hardly either necessary or possible to add a word. I must, however, reinforce, if only in a few sentences, his expression of surprise that it should have appeared to any one in another place to be a reasonable process to make a proposal of this kind without taking the trouble to ascertain what were the opinions of the Judges upon it, what were the opinions of the Law Officers and what were the opinions of the Director of Public. Prosecutions and of his Department. Such a change in the law may or may not be desirable; I hold the strongest view, for the reasons stated by Lord Desart, that the case has not been made out on its merits for such an alteration in the law. At least, it would appear to me to be indisputable that the fact that a change in the law of such gravity, as the noble Earl, with his experience has pointed out, has been introduced as the result of a private Amendment to a mil with which it has nothing whatever to do, without consulting a single Government Department, is one of the most extraordinary steps which a legislative body could have taken, or to which another legislative body—against its wishes, as I should surmise—has ever been asked to assent.575THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: It is not, necessary for the noble Earl to move to disagree. He can challenge the issue on the Motion that the House doth agree.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
567: My Lords, before that Motion is put from the Woolsack, I should like to say that, so far as I am concerned, while I should find no difficulty in conforming to the wishes of the right rev. Prelate upon almost all the Amendments which the House of Commons have sent to your Lordships, in relation to two of them I find myself quite unconvinced by the reasons which have been given by the right rev. Prelate. I refer in the first place to your Lordships' Amendment as to the hearing of incest cases in public, and, in the second place, I have in my mind the extraordinary proceeding, as it appears to me, under which, in the early hours of the morning in another place, there has
567THE LORD CHANCELLOR
581prima faciein camera.in camera.580: My Lords, the right rev. Prelate has asked me, without notice, and somewhat late in the day, whether I could give an undertaking that this Bill will be treated as a Government Bill. Of course, I am not in a position to give any such undertaking, but I do not share the gloomy anticipations which the right rev. Prelate has expressed, though I admit that there is sonic ground upon which they can be based. But I should be very unwilling to believe, until I am convinced by the event, that, because two thoroughly indefensible Amendments are rejected, the whole of this Bill will be sacrificed, and any assistance of a friendly kind that call be given in another place by the Government will certainly not be withheld when the matter returns for consideration to that House.581prima faciein camera.in camera.580THE LORD CHANCELLOR
601600: My Lords, it is always a very difficult matter to intervene in a debate which has reference to His Majesty's expenditure, but I concur in the view expressed by the noble Viscount that it is unfortunate that a precedent has been created, in converting what is a portion of the property to which George V succeeded from capital into revenue. When I was Chancellor of the Duchy, some ten years ago, I found that the reverse was taking place in connection with the
601600LORD GAINFORD
582: My Lords, I regret that, this matter has been treated in this very serious manner. I have tried cases under the Incest Act, and I quite with my brethren and former colleagues that it was a silly provision. I know that sonic of the Judges, in their dislike of it, have gone so far as to make what I think were unwarranted additions to the Act, and refuse to allow it to be declared in public that a man was guilty or to pass his punishment in public—things which, under the earlier administration of tire Act, we did not think necessary. But I agree, and have always agreed, that it was a misfortune, because the object of the Act was to prevent crime, and if people did not know that the crime was punished they would not be deterred.582LORD PHILLIMORE
in camera: My Lords, it is perhaps somewhat superfluous of me to say anything, seeing that the noble Viscount on the Woolsack has already expressed his opposition to the Amendment which has been introduced in another place. But I may be allowed to say a few words, because I am afraid that it was I who was responsible for introducing into the Act of 1908 this clause which is now being repealed. May I take the opportunity, however, of expressing my regret at the absence of the noble and learned Lord who was Chairman of the Joint Select Committee of both Houses of Parliament. To his patience, his tact, and to the legal knowledge which he brought to bear upon this subject, your Lordships' House, and I think the country generally, owe a very real debt of gratitude, and I am very sorry that he cannot be here this afternoon to help us in deciding this question.in cameraEARL BEAUCHAMP
673: My Lords, I am well aware of the difficult conditions under which the House is working this week and the heavy task which lies before it to-day in the Railways Bill. Therefore, I propose to say what I have to say as briefly as possible, but before I make a few observations about the Bill itself, which I cannot well omit, there are two preliminary matters to which I am obliged to refer because they have been the subject of observations by the noble Marquess who leads the House, and by the noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack.673THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Many of them are drafting.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
682" Those of us who for many years have believed in such an adjustment as is contemplated by the terms of this Bill, …"681680679678677" Whatever may be the methods adopted, the object aimed at by the Allies is to increase production within their territories as a whole to a sufficient extent to enable them to maintain and develop their economic position and independence in relation to enemy countries:"676" have recourse either to enterprises subsidised, directed or controlled by the Governments themselves, or to the grant of financial assistance for the encouragement of scientific and technical research, and the development of national Indus
676" to render themselves independent of the enemy countries, in so far as regards the raw materials and manufactured articles essential to the normal development,.of their economic activities."regime" to fix by agreement a period of time during which the commerce of the enemy powers should be submitted to special treatment and that goods originating in their countries shall be subject either to prohibitions or to a special regime" to adopt and realise from now onward all the measures requisite on the one hand to secure for themselves and for the whole of the markets of neutral countries full economic independence and respect for sound commercial practice, and on the other hand to facilitate the organisation on a permanent basis of their economic alliance."675674: Never mind; I do not care whether they are drafting or not. The point is that it may be necessary to amend even Goverment Bills. It is quite conceivable that the noble Viscount may see some drafting Amendments which may usefully be applied to the Safeguarding of Industries Bill. If he does, I have no doubt the Bill would go back and the Amendments would be agreed to, and the Bill passed in the ordinary way.682" Those of us who for many years have believed in such an adjustment as is contemplated by the terms of this Bill, …"681680679678677" Whatever may be the methods adopted, the object aimed at by the Allies is to increase production within their territories as a whole to a sufficient extent to enable them to maintain and develop their economic position and independence in relation to enemy countries:"676" have recourse either to enterprises subsidised, directed or controlled by the Governments themselves, or to the grant of financial assistance for the encouragement of scientific and technical research, and the development of national Indus
676" to render themselves independent of the enemy countries, in so far as regards the raw materials and manufactured articles essential to the normal development,.of their economic activities."regime" to fix by agreement a period of time during which the commerce of the enemy powers should be submitted to special treatment and that goods originating in their countries shall be subject either to prohibitions or to a special regime" to adopt and realise from now onward all the measures requisite on the one hand to secure for themselves and for the whole of the markets of neutral countries full economic independence and respect for sound commercial practice, and on the other hand to facilitate the organisation on a permanent basis of their economic alliance."675674THE MARQUESS OP CREWE
in pari material697: My Lords, perhaps I may be allowed to offer one observation by way of correction of what the noble and learned Viscount has just said, in case all your Lordships are not acquainted with the absolute terms of the Parliament Act. The noble and learned Viscount, speaking rather elliptically, seemed to imply that it is in the power of Mr. Speaker to decide whether a particular Bill presented to him is a Financial Bill or not. But the terms on which Mr. Speaker is to found his judgment are laid down at length in subsection (2) of Section 1 of the Parliament Act. I need
in pari material697THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, I wish to make a correction. I stated the other day on the Second Reading, when speaking of monopolies, that the London and North Western Railway had a monopoly from Chester to Holyhead, and from Holyhead on to Kingstown, and, as an instance, I mentioned that some years ago the Nationalist members said that if third-class compartments were not put on this railway they would have to take action. Of course, I meant the Irish mail trains that run from Euston to Holyhead, and from Westland Row, Dublin; I did not mean the other trains, but only that particular Irish mail train. That was granted by the London and North Western Railway Company and the Nationalist members attained their object.THE EARL OF MAYO
: I do not know whether this is a practical Amendment or not, but personally I am not satisfied that economies will be secured by these amalgamations. I think the railway companies are the best judges, and if they deem these amalgamations to be necessary they would naturally take place. I am all for voluntary arrangement, rather than for compulsory amalgamation. I believe that the interests of the staff, as well as the interests of economy on behalf of the shareholders, would be better left in the hands of the existing railway companies— at any rate the large railway companies of this country — than entrusted to the huge amalgamations proposed in this Bill.LORD GAINFORD
704703: The noble and learned Lord, Lord Parmoor, was mistaken, I think, in saying that I spoke of the Bill as a compromise and sug
704703THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR. INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
: In answer to the noble Earl, it is true that the voluntary principle would preserve the principle of competition as regards any company which did not come into the grouping scheme. That is the object of my Amendment— to allow, at any rate, some remnant of competition to survive even in connection with the principle of grouping and amalgamation. It would have the effect of leaving in the hands of any one company the power of saying whether it would be grouped or not.LORD PARMOOR
705: I do not think the noble and learned Lord has altogether appreciated what must be the necessary effect not merely of the Amendment he has moved but of the whole series of Amendments which stand in his name. I am not sure whether he realises that no amalgamations are possible without Parliamentary permission and he proposes to give that Parliamentary permission.
705LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
: No.LORD PARMOOR
: I am sorry, but in my humble opinion that is the necessary effect of the series of Amendments placed on the Paper by the noble Lord. If we decided anything at all upon Second Reading, I take it that it wag this. Though in the palmy days before the war unrestricted competition was productive of highly luxurious services which the public enjoyed, bitter experience has shown us since that it is one matterLORD STUART OF WORTLEY
712: Your Lordships have heard a great deal of the facts of the case from Lord Nunburnholme, but I should like to say that I share with him the honour of being the only other member of your Lordships' House who was born in Hull, and I think we are the only members of the House who have been actively identified with Hull practically all our lives. No one who is not so identified has any idea of the intense feeling which exists in Hull, from the highest citizen to the lowest, with regard to this Bill, in respect of the manner in which it brings about the amalgamation of the North-Eastern and the Hull and Barnsley railways. I do not think there has ever been a more striking instance of municipal agreement on a subject than is provided by this case. A statement has been issued, and I believe forwarded, to every member of your Lordships' House, signed by the Lord Mayor of Hull, the Chairman of the Corporation Parliamentary committee, the High Steward, the Sheriff, the President of the Incorporated Chamber of Shipping and Commerce, and the President of the Hull and District Chamber of Trades. In addition resolutions have been passed by the Bradford Exchange and the chambers of commerce and exchanges of other West and South Yorkshire towns in opposition to the proposed grouping.712LORD TERRINGTON
715"The fact remains that shipping as a rule welcomes this change. We have all suffered from time to time more or less from the congestion and trouble that there has been with the various systems in Hull, and I corroborate all that the Parliamentary Secretary has said in regard to the waste that goes on by the competition that has taken place in times gone by and up to the present; and I am convinced it is going to be for the benefit of Hull itself, whatever the Hull Corporation may think about it. At any rate, I strongly support the Government in the grouping of the Hull and Barnsley Railway with the Eastern group, and it would be a great calamity to the Hull and Barnsley Railway itself and the community of Hull if any other step were taken. I hope the Government will persevere in resisting the amendment.""Since the first day this Bill came before the Committee, I have never put in my word, and I would not have intervened now, had it not been for this repeated statement that the whole business community of Hull will be grievously injured if the Hull and Barnsley Railway is put into this group. I have been a user of the port of Hull for over forty years, and I am also Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee of the Chamber of Shipping, and there has been no complaint made by any user of the port of Hull that the Government measure is going to be injurious to shipping."714713ad nauseam: I have listened carefully to the two speeches which have been delivered and have tried to find out whether any arguments have been brought forward in addition to those which were placed before the two Committees and the House of Commons. I cannot discover anything new, and. we must assume therefore, that the Bill, and the arguments for and against it, remain in the same Position as when the Bill left the other House. There an Amendment was moved on Report in the identical words of the Amendment now before us. It was not a new question sprung on the House of Commons. The subject had been debated absolutely 715"The fact remains that shipping as a rule welcomes this change. We have all suffered from time to time more or less from the congestion and trouble that there has been with the various systems in Hull, and I corroborate all that the Parliamentary Secretary has said in regard to the waste that goes on by the competition that has taken place in times gone by and up to the present; and I am convinced it is going to be for the benefit of Hull itself, whatever the Hull Corporation may think about it. At any rate, I strongly support the Government in the grouping of the Hull and Barnsley Railway with the Eastern group, and it would be a great calamity to the Hull and Barnsley Railway itself and the community of Hull if any other step were taken. I hope the Government will persevere in resisting the amendment.""Since the first day this Bill came before the Committee, I have never put in my word, and I would not have intervened now, had it not been for this repeated statement that the whole business community of Hull will be grievously injured if the Hull and Barnsley Railway is put into this group. I have been a user of the port of Hull for over forty years, and I am also Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee of the Chamber of Shipping, and there has been no complaint made by any user of the port of Hull that the Government measure is going to be injurious to shipping."714713ad nauseamLORD KNARESBOROUGH
: May I intervene, with the noble Lord's permission, for one moment? After the Hull people had read that speech, they immediately sent a telegram to the Central Shipping Committee in London protesting that the member for Dumbarton did not represent their opinion.LORD NUNBURNHOLME
716: No, but he represented what was very much more valuable, and that was his own opinion. A perfectly independent opinion. I come now to another question. The noble Lord sitting beside me (Lord Nunburnholme) will not, I think, contradict me when I say that the Wilson Line is by far the most important shipping business in the city of Hull. Now, Mr. Sanderson who is the manager of the Wilson Line, is also a director of the North Eastern Railway. He is entirely in favour of the scheme. I know it is objected by the party opposed to us that he is a director of the North Eastern Railway, but the fact cuts both ways. To begin with, his interest in shipping many times exceeds his interest in railways, but he is a perfectly independent man, and he certainly would not go against the interests of Hull if he thought that this grouping were going to be injurious. But he is entirely in favour of it. You may say that is because he is a railway director. Supposing he had not been a railway director, what would have been said? People would have said Mr. Sanderson knows all about shipping but he knows nothing about railways. We are aware, however, that he knows a good deal about railways as well as about shipping, that he represents by far the most important shipping interests in the port of Hull, and that he is in favour of this grouping. That, surely, is a very strong argument against the Amendment which has been moved.716LORD KNARESBOROUGH
718717: The noble Lord who has just sat down has told us that the House of Commons became heartily sick of the name"Hull and Barnsley." I hope I shall not inflict the same evil upon this House, and I, also, will try to be as brief as I can. The two noble Lords who were responsible for the Amendment are both, as they have told us, intimately connected with the city of Hull. The noble Lord who has just sat down is, as your Lordships know, the Chairman of the North Eastern Railway Company. I am a director of the Hull and Barnsley Railway, and if your Lordships will allow me I should like to put one or two facts before you from the point of view of that rather hardly-used little railway.718717LORD HAMILTON OF DALZELL
: I must differ from the noble Lord on that statement. The Hull and Barnsley dock was the mainstay in the growth of Hull. Without that dock the New York and Boston trade could never have been developed at all, and trade with the Far East also could not have been conducted.LORD NUNBURNHOLME
: I am very glad to hear the noble Lord say so, and I hope all the traders of Hull will bear it in mind when next they have to consign goods. Now that the Government have brought forward a measure in which the Hull and Barnsley Railway must inevitably fall into one or other of two groups, I think the shareholders have a right to ask your Lordships to have consideration for their interests, and that they shall not be made a pawn in some obscure game of the Hull Corporation, which that corporation wants to play with the object of paying off some old score against the North Eastern Railway. I hope that your Lordships will not agree to the Amendment.LORD HAMILTON OF DALZELL
720: I do not know whether the noble Earl in charge of the Bill intends to give us any guidance in the matter. If he is going to do so, perhaps, it is unnecessary for me to say anything, but as he has not risen, although I do not want to prolong the debate, and although I speak as one specially concerned as a director of the North Eastern Railway Company, I hope your Lordships will not give your decision on the somewhat narrow grounds upon which the question has hitherto been argued. I agree with the noble Lord opposite, who seconded the Amendment, when he said that he based his case very much on the speech made by my noble friend, Lord Parmoor. I think he was perfectly justified in that statement, but then the speech of Lord Parmoor was really a speech against the whole principle of grouping in the Bill, and that is exactly the case for this Amendment. If you are going to decide on this Amendment, you cannot do so by treating it simply as a matter concerning Hull or the North Eastern Railway Company, but you must treat it as a matter which strikes vitally against the whole principle of grouping on which the Bill is based.720VISCOUNT GREY OF FALLODON
723722721: Although we are discussing a specific Amendment in the name of Lord Nunburnholme, I think it has been for the convenience of the House to consider whether the Hull and Barnsley should be put into the Eastern or into the Western group; because that is really the matter which is at the bottom of the Amendment which we are considering. Hitherto, this discussion has been conducted entirely, I think, by those who have, for one reason or another, a particular interest in the question. We have heard two speeches in favour of the Amendment by noble Lords who are specially interested in the town of Hull,
723722721THE EARL OF LYTTON
vice versa.: I think there is nothing in my Amendment to prevent the Hull and Barnsley Company running the line into the North Eastern system or vice versa.LORD NUNBURNHOLME
: I agree.THE EARL OF LYTTON
726: I am sorry that I cannot hold out any hope of being able to accept the noble and learned Lord's Amendment. I agree with him, of course, as everybody must, in regretting the multiplication of organisations and tribunals, and I share with him the desire to place upon an existing tribunal, if it were possible, the duties which are going to be entrusted to this Amalgamation Tribunal. But I submit that the composition of the Railway and Canal Commission renders it unsuited to the purpose which this Tribunal will have to fill. In the first place, the Railway and Canal Commission is presided over by a Judge, and the work which the Amalgamation Tribunal will have to do will be of so strenuous a character that it would be impossible for its Chairman to continue to carry out the duties of a Judge. Therefore, if those duties were given to the. Railway and Canal Commission, it would necessitate taking the Chairman of that body away from his judicial duties for the period of two years, during which this Tribunal will operate.726THE EARL OF LYTTON
: In order to preserve the rights of the following Amendment I suggest to your Lordships that I should put the question that the first line of paragraph (c) stand part.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
734: I should like to place before your Lordships one or two facts that I think have hardly come to the notice of the noble and learned Lord who has just spoken. Not only is the Great western Railway Company a constituent company, but it also becomes an amalgamation company, and therefore the provisions of subsection (2) of Clause 7 apply-equally to that as to the other constituent companies. The main object of this clause is a comparatively simple one. The Great Western Company is absorbing a con
734LORD FARINGDON
pari passu735: I understand the noble Earl does not desire to give any explanation on this, which no doubt seems to be somewhat of a domestic matter. I am afraid I cannot accept as satisfactory the explanation of this matter by the noble Lord, Lord Faringdon. Section 7, subsection (2), gives a certain consultative right before an agreed amalgamation scheme is submitted to the Amalgamation Tribunal, but Clause 3, subsection (2), to which I have been drawing attention, says that with respect to the Western group the amalgamation scheme shall do certain things, and if power is exercised under the scheme of providing for this
pari passu735LORD SUMNER
736: This is a very technical matter, and I do not know whether I can make it any clearer. Clause 3 was inserted in the Bill for the purpose of keeping in existence the Great Western Railway Company, after grouping has taken place; and in this respect the Great Western Railway Company differs from all the other companies that are grouped under the Bill. In all the other groups that are formed the groups will be composed of two or more large existing railway companies, and it is provided that they shall, in every case, cease to exist, and that a new company shall he formed to take their place, and provisions are made in the Bill for the allocation of stock in the new group.736THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF LYTTON
737: Before we pass to the next clause I should like to call attention to subsection (I), paragraph (c), which makes it possible for the amalgamation companies to appoint small local boards in different parts of their areas. This did not appear in the Bill as originally introduced, but on the Committee stage in another place an Amendment was moved to proscribe the formation of local boards, their numbers and duties. It was not really a practical proposal and was withdrawn on the promise of the Minister that he would introduce other words on the Report stage giving effect to the principle, which was supported by a good many of the larger towns, especially in the North of England.737EARL GREY
738: I have Considered the point raised by my noble friend, but I am not prepared to give him an answer now. When he told me that he would refer to this subject on the Motion that Clause 3 stand part, I understood that he was going to ask me whether provision would be made in the Bill for these boards, and I should have been prepared to tell
738THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I think it would be most undesirable that anything compulsory should be put in this Bill with regard to sub-committees. There is going to be a new departure in these matters; there are going to be absolutely new boards of directors, dealing with very large districts. You may be quite sure that they have quite enough work to do and, if they find it necessary to delegate their powers to sub-committees, it is very desirable that they should do so. But I think it should be done voluntarily; at any rate, until the country has had time to see how the whole thing is going to work. They should not be hampered in any unnecessary way. Let them work out their own salvation, and, if the thing does not develop satisfactorily, we can have an amending Bill.LORD KNARESBOROUGH
: In order to preserve the rights of the noble Earl (the Earl of Plymouth) I suggest that the first three words of the Amendment only shall be put, and that the Question shall be lines 26 and 27, that the words"and in particular"shall stand part.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
744: I only want to say that as I have got an Amendment which follows I am very much obliged to the noble Earl in the Chair for safeguarding my Amendment. With regard to the Amendment before the Committee, I personally should be quite content to accept it. A great deal of controversy has taken place as to the exact meaning of the words which the noble Duke moves to omit. The Government stated in another place that they mean to express certain things, which others have considered are very doubtful, having regard to the actual wording of the clause. It seems to me, as it does to the noble Duke.
744THE EARL OF PLYMOUTH
745: I should like to say a word or two in support of the Amendment, because I have had considerable experience in cases of this character. I think it would be eminently right that the clause should stop at the word"case"The effect of that is to leave the whole matter in the hands of the Amalgamation Tribunal, and no question of law arises at all. It is a pure question of fact for their determination, upon consideration of all the circumstances of the case. When we come to the particular conditions which the noble Duke desires to exclude, there are three patent inconsistencies which cannot fail to promote complication and difficulty. The first valuation is of each of the constituent and subsidiary companies as a separate company. That is one basis. The second is its value as a component part of the amalgamated company.745LORD PARMOOR
: I do not think these words are quite so difficult to understand as is represented. In fact, I must confess to a suspicion that it is only because they are too well understood that the Amendment has been moved. Of course, a smaller railway, which is part of a linked system, is and always has been a very valuable link in that system, and the first part of these words which it is proposed to cut out are intended, no doubt, to preserve to that railway that kind of value; and part of that value is no doubt the power of refusing, at certain points of junction, to go on with the handing over of traffic to other members of what has, up to now, been a linked system. On the other hand, here you get the intervention of the Legislature, which, by a more or less rigid system of grouping, is going to fix that value and very greatly to add to it.LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
748747: I wish to support the Amendment of the noble Duke for the following reasons. Up to the word"case"the clause is quite understandable, it is straightforward, and it is fair to all parties concerned, and, incidentally, it leaves the Tribunal quite untramelled. I am in agreement with the noble Duke, and, with all due deference to the Minister of Transport and his legal advisers, I find the last part of the clause absolutely unintelligible. That is as it appears to the lay mind. But we have just heard two noble Lords of great legal ability, and already they have fallen out over the interpretation of the clause. We can see what we may expect when there is more profit and less, pleasure in the discussion.748747THE DUKE OF ATHOLL
750749: This clause is one of the most important clauses in the Bill. It is the clause which is going to' determine the conditions on which the railway companies are to be amalgamated, and the words we are discussing are words which indicate to the Tribunal which is to consider this matter the lines on which they are to determine the values of the amalgamated companies. There are two parts of the Amendment of the noble Duke, and I will deal with them separately. The first is the question of whether you should, after"all the circumstances of the case"keep the instruction to the Tribunal as to what they are in particular to do; and the second deals with the last words in the clause, which is a modification of the previous instruction.750749THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Before the noble Earl passes from the point of the revenue-earning value, does he mean by that the revenue-earning value at the present date, in the year 1921-22, or the revenue-earning value of 1913, pre-war?LORD LOVAT
751: The revenue-earning basis of the company at the time of the amalgamation. I was proceeding to deal with the last words in the clause and to explain why those words were inserted. If those words were not there it would be possible for a company— as, for instance, the North-Eastern Company— which has a considerable forwarding traffic, to say, when it came into the amalgamation:"Hitherto, I have been able to forward my traffic by one of two alternative routes. In consideration of the fact that I am now in this North-Eastern group I will forward all the traffic which comes to me by that route alone. Therefore, I am a valuable partner and ought to receive consideration by virtue of that value which I bring into the group." The Government maintains that a company ought not to receive any additional value in respect of considerations of that kind, and I will endeavour to give to your Lordships what seems to me to be an overwhelming reason why it is right that no value should be given for such considerations.751THE EARL OF LYTTON
752: If the words of the Bill were as clear as the speeches of tile. noble Earl we should not be in so much difficulty. I think he has entirely misunderstood the claim which the noble Duke who has moved this Amendment has made, that by excluding these words he will diminish litigation. Let me point out to the noble Earl that the noble Duke was perfectly right. The. earlier words of the clause, which the noble Duke consents to leave in, deal only with matters of fact—" the circumstances of the case." The words which he intends to strike out, if the House agrees with him, deal with most intricate matters of law. Of the meaning of those words none of the lay members of your Lordships' House, I venture to say, have a glimmering. It is not only that confusion will arise in the minds of the lay members of your Lordships' House, but all these elaborate provisions and limitations will almost certainly lead to litigation. Litigation does not take place upon matters of fact—I mean elaborate litigation does not— it is always upon the construction of the Statutes which govern the case.752THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Because they are much less indicative of the value of the undertaking.THE EARL OF LYTON
753: If that is the case, surely Mr. Talbot and Sir 'William Pleader and Sir Henry Babington Smith are fully qualified to arrive at a just conclusion. Why should the Government say to these distinguished men:"Although you are much more likely to understand it than we are, and although you are selected because of your expert knowledge and your justice, you are to he bound to put certain particulars in a preferential position when considering the justice of the case." Why should they do that? There
753THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I should like to point out that the noble Earl has raised another element of doubt in his seemingly lucid explanation, which was inconsistent with the Bill itself. When asked by my noble friend, Lord Lovat, from what period the valuation of the revenue-earning basis was to date, he said: "The time of the amalgamation." But the Bill says something else. It says that no increase of value which may result after the passing of this Act is to be taken into account. Therefore, the valuation of these companies would be from the present date. The noble Earl said it would be at the period of amalgamation. If you set up any sort or kind of tribunal, I think the essential condition is that you should trust it.LORD AMPTHILL
754: I wish to make a small point regarding the question of the date when the valuation is to take place. The noble Earl has definitely stated that it will be at the time of amalgamation. May I point out how very unfair that is to the small railways? I think it is agreed that the small railways have suffered very much more than the large railways by the conditions imposed upon them by the Government during the war. In a small line in the north of Scotland, with which I am acquainted, our labour bill has gone up 315 per cent: Under this Bill you are not going to take the revenue at the time when the railways were working under normal conditions, in 1913, but you take it after you have imposed certain terms,
754LORD LOVAT
: I can show in two sentences the shortcomings of this clause. The first part of the clause will tell the Tribunal to take into consideration all the circumstances of the case, and the last part of it will tell them that there are some circumstances of the case they are not to take into consideration at all; while, in between, it says there are sonic circumstances which are to be taken into account in particular, leaving all other circumstances to be taken into account in general. I cannot help thinking we shall hear more of this clause before we have done with it, if passed as it stands.LORD SUMNER
ad nauseam: I sincerely hope your Lordships will keep the Bill in its present form. The clause was accepted by His Majesty's Government as the result of long negotiations between the companies, and it was thoroughly threshed out for many, many days in another place. In fact, they had as many as six Divisions, and as many as fifteen Amendments, only four of which were carried. I say that merely to show your Lordships that it has been discussed ad nauseamVISCOUNT CHURCHILL
755: The noble Viscount who has just spoken has referred to discussions in another place, and to this clause being agreed to. The point is as to who agreed. It was a compromise, and a series of compromises which amount, in my opinion, and I think in the opinion of several other noble Lords, to a dish of hotchpot. The Tribunal which has been set up to deal with the amalgamation pro-
755THE EARL OF ELGIN
: should like to support what has just been saidLORD KNARESBOROUGH
: I submit that these words are really not necessary, and that they will not add anything to the clause, except a fresh element of confusion and make it more unwieldy than it is now. The only words of this clause which shut out anything from the consideration of the Tribunal are those which begin "so, however, that regard shall not be had ''; that is, the words which are the subject of the noble Earl's next Amendment. To state that the Tribunal is to take into consideration certain things in particular does not shut out the consideration of other aspects of the question in general. If you were to say that in considering general questions you roust not forget the particular, and in considering the particular you must not forget the general, we might go on indefinitely and get Amendment after Amendment- on the Paper; a kind of perpetual motion.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I was interested to hear the noble Earl say dart the words of the clause are already confused. He said the Amendment would add to the confusion. I am sure the Government, do not wish to be responsible for an Act of Parliament which is confused, and I invite my noble friend to see whether he cannot simplify the words of this clause. I agree that the Amendment will not simplify it. On the contrary, it will make it, as the noble Earl very epigrammatically put it, much more contused. But after we have had an admission that the words are confused, the Government are bound, having a regard for their reputation, to do their best to make them clear, and I hope that before the Bill passes out of your Lordships' care the Government will do so.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
759: I hope the House will take it that we really settled the principle involved in this Amendment on the last Division. I do not propose to argue the point as to whether or not these words should remain in the Bill. I rise for the purpose of answering one question. The noble Earl asked me whether it is not the fact that if these words remain in the Bill more will not be struck out from the consideration of the Tribunal than I explained to your Lordships the Government desired to exclude. I can give you an assurance upon that point. So far as I am advised, the clause, as at present drafted, does carry out quite clearly and distinctly the objects of the Government, which are these: that the company should be in the main valued upon its prospective net revenue-earning capacity at the time of the amalgamation, without regard, however, to an increased revenue-earning capacity which may result in consequence of its being put, into a particular group by the powers of this Bill. That is the object of the clause and that, I believe, is what the clause says. I do not think it does exclude anything from consideration of the Tribunal except an accretion of value which comes to the
759THE EARL OF LYTTON
763762: Like the noble Earl, I regret also that the present attendance in the House makes it difficult for us to have a very full discussion of this particular Amendment and to put the matter to the test of a Division. The noble and learned Lord has asked me what the Minister has to do with this clause at all. I will give him a reason. I
763762THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I think the noble Earl has been justifying a different clause from that which stands in the Bill. He has been justifying a clause which would read:"such date as the amalgamation tribunal, after hearing the Minister, may fix." The Clause does not merely deal with postponement but with anticipation of the Statutory date. Supposing the railway company, and the traders, and the passengers, and all the other people wish the date to be accelerated, and the Tribunal was willing to do so, it is the consent of the Minister that is still requisite; not his statement whether there is any public reasons to the contrary or not. What the clause does is to put up two authorities to fix one thing, whereas what is wanted is that one authority should fix it, after hearing all the interests. I suggest to the noble Earl that to make the clause conform to his explanation, which I have no doubt is very much better than the clause, it will be better to introduce a, few amending words upon the Report stage, and, if you do not get rid of the Minister, at least put him in his proper place.LORD SUMNER
: I will consider that.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I do not wish to press my Amendment if the noble Earl will consider the matter.LORD SUMNER
: I should like to ask the noble Earl this question. How can the public, the traders, and the passengers interested be brought before the Minister? Is there a clause in the Bill that does that?THE EARL OF MAYO
: In the usual way. If any body of persons are interested in the date, they can make representations to the Ministry.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I beg to move the purely verbal Amendment which I have placed on the Paper.THE EARL OF LYTTON
ex hypothesi770: My noble and learned friend has made a case on behalf of a change in the proposals of the Bill which is very arguable and on behalf of which he has fully stated the available considerations. The view of those who are responsible for these proposals lies in the opposite sense. The question here is, in fact, a very short one. The amalgamation schemes, which are the subject matter of these Tribunals, deal with the transfers which will take place when amalgamation is proposed. It is, of course, obvious that in the great majority of cases the issues are not of law at all. They are considerations affecting valuations, stock and broad considerations of fair business dealing, and it is not contemplated, and it cannot be in fact the case, that many of them will present legal considerations at all.ex hypothesi770THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I agree that this provision is necessary, and I accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Does that cover all the Amendments of the noble Lord?THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: It covers all on Clause 11.LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
: I have to move three drafting Amendments.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I now have to move a drafting Amendment, which is in manuscript.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: This is also a drafting Amendment.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: The next is also a manuscript Amendment and is drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: There are two drafting Amendments to this clause.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: As the Bill stands, the railway companies would have power to borrow up to the amount of £ 48,000,000. Under the Amendment of the noble Earl their borrowing power would he brought up to £ 192,000,000.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: No.THE EARL OF ELGIN
: That, I understand, is the effect of the Amendment.THE EARL OF LYTTON
plusplus: It brings the proportion from one-third, which they possess now under the Common Law, plusplusTHE EARL OF ELGIN
: I do not; think there is any dispute about this. The effect would be to increase the borrowing powers of the company. The clause would only apply for a period of two years, and I am informed that the companies' will find it very difficult, if not impossible, to borrow and spend the amount of money which is allowed to them under the Bill as it stands, and there is no need whatever to increase the amount. For that reason I cannot accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Should it be"person"in the singular or"persons"in the plural?THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: It is"person"in the singular.THE EARL OF MAYO
locus standi781: This Amendment would do a good deal more than the noble Earl suggests. If it were put into the Bill it would give to any individual person a right, which is now given to any body of persons, to make representations to the Railway and Canal Commission. It is true, as the noble Earl has said, that on the Second Reading I referred to this clause as the charter of the traders, and that he asked me where the passengers came in. I told him that the passengers would be in the same position as the traders, that they would have the same right of making representations as was given to the traders. But there is no provision in the Bill which says that any individual trader might make representations. It must be remembered that this clause gives to the traders, the general public, a right which they do not possess to-day. Under this clause they may, in future, appear before the Railway and Canal Commission and demand that the railway company shall be ordered to do certain
locus standi781THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I should like to ask my noble friend, merely for my own information, what he means by a"body of persons"to make representations. Does that mean two persons? Would two persons be a body of persons?THE E MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: That is stated in Clause 78.THE EARL OF LITTON
: Is the noble Earl prepared to accept the second Amendment? There would be no harm in inserting the words"any such interests," because the word is"persons"in the plural and not"person"in the singular.THE EARL OF MAYO
: Perhaps the noble Earl would be kind enough to indicate where, in Clause 78, the passengers are dealt with.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: A local authority would be able to make representations on behalf of pasengers or traders. If a local authority, under Clause 78, were to make such representations, they might be made in the interest of passengers as well as of traders. When we were discussing this question on Second Reading, the noble Earl referred, in particular, to the interests of the passengers on the North Western Railway travelling to Holyhead, and he said that those persons to-day suffered by reason of the unchecked monopoly of the railway. This Bill, of course, does not create a monopoly. He wanted to know whether there was any relief under this Bill, and I pointed out to him, or intended to point out, that if a local authority in Ireland were moved by persons travelling on this line to make representations, they could go before the Railway and Canal Commission and ask that further facilities he granted. I think it is only in the case of a local authority that the passengers could be represented in a corporate way.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Will the noble Earl accept the Amendment on line 7, after"representing," to insert"or having "?THE EARL OF MAYO
: The other Amendment must be withdrawn first.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: Will the noble Earl accept the next Amendment which gives them a little more power? It is, after the word"representing," to insert"or having."THE EARL OF MAYO
: I do not quite understand what is the effect of it. I thought the second Amendment was consequential on the first. The noble Lord has withdrawn the word"person," and he now wants to insert"or having,'' after"representing," in line 7. It would then read"may on the application of any body of persons representing any such interest."THE EARL OF LYTTON
:"Or having any such interest."THE EARL OF MAYO
: I am afraid I am not clear what change that would make in the Bill. If the noble Earl will allow me to make inquiry as to its effect I will give him the answer when we reach the next stage of the Bill.THE EARL OF LITTON
: May I point out that it means if two or three passengers had an interest in getting season tickets altered, then those two or three persons would have an interest, and he able to come forward and do this.LORD SUMNER
: I should like to consider it.THE EARL OF LITTON
: I will bring it up on Report.THE EARL OF MAYO
787" if it shall appear to the committee that such construction can be carried out at less expense by private enterprise or that such co-operative working would be detrimental to the public interest.": As I have a similar Amendment on the Paper perhaps your Lordships will allow me to say that I endorse everything Lord Ampthill has said so very clearly in explanation of the Amendment. My Amendment differs in a small degree from his as it seemed to me desirable to base our case upon the public interest and upon that only. My words are—
787" if it shall appear to the committee that such construction can be carried out at less expense by private enterprise or that such co-operative working would be detrimental to the public interest."LORD BLEDISLOE
788" to conform gradually to measures of general standardisation of ways, plant and equipment, to adopt schemes for the co-operative working or common user of rolling stock, workshops, manufactories, plant and other facilities.": Lord Ampthill has said quite truly that his first. Amendment, which we are now discussing, was only a preliminary to his second Amendment, which he will move later, and that the two must hang together. He has supported these two Amendments by referring to the position of the manufacturers of locomotives and wagons, whom, in this matter, he represents, and who, he fears, may be injured under the Bill as it stands.788" to conform gradually to measures of general standardisation of ways, plant and equipment, to adopt schemes for the co-operative working or common user of rolling stock, workshops, manufactories, plant and other facilities."THE EARL OF LYTTON
: It does not say anything about all the parties.LORD AMPTHILL
790789: If all the companies affected by the Order consent thereto. If you leave out the proviso the effect would be that supposing it is represented by the Minister that economies can be effected by the common user of rolling stock or workshops between two or more companies in the amalgamation, and they are agreed that that would be a desirable thing and economies may be effected, if this Amendment is carried it will be impossible for this common user of rolling stock to take place without going to a tribunal and discussing the whole matter, although all the parties concerned in the arrangement are agreed to make it. I am pointing out to the noble Lord that his Amendment will have an effect which he obviously did not contemplate when considering only manufacturers of locomotives and wagons.790789THE EARL OF LYTTON
791: For some years I was associated with a firm of private locomotive builders and I am afraid that the noble Earl has not realised how valuable it has been to the public that we have had in the country a very large number of private, firms competing in construction with the great railway companies. Up to the present the position has been that each railway company has had an engineer who was constantly looking into the question of the type of locomotive best suited to his own traffic. He altered his specifications from time to time, and always had a different specification from that of the other railway companies. When locomotives were wanted tenders were placed before a large
791LORD GAINFORD
792: I cannot understand why it should be supposed that the grouping of the railways will end in the practical destruction of the private building of locomotives and wagons: It would be a monstrous thing to put serious obligations on the railway companies to supply the needs of the public and then prevent them from supplying themselves with the plant which is absolutely necessary to carry out those obligations. I have had some experience of dealing with this question, and I must say that if we had depended upon the private builders during
792LORD JOICEY
793: I do not know whether my noble friend, Lord Bledisloe, or my noble friend, Lord Ampthill, reflects how much too much they have proved. Their argument, if it is good for anything, is good to establish that there ought not to be any railway factories at all. I am not quite sure it does not go so far as to prove that there ought not to be any standardisation. I would ask your Lordships to reflect how it has come about that there are any factories for locomotives and wagons conducted by the railway companies themselves. What is the fundamental, radical and initial distinction between a railway company and any other kind of trader? After all, a railway company is nothing but a trader. The distinction is this: that the railway company is obliged to continue its industry. Even whether it pays or does not pay, it is under an obligation to continue to serve the public. It
793LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
: Might I just ask a question about this Amendment? The clause is all governed, I think, by the £ 100,000 limit. Expenditure under this clause cannot be more than £ 100,000 on any particular scheme, and that amount would not go very far to-day in locomotive work. Would it be possible to put down new large works under schemes under this clause, and if so, what are the opportunites for objection on the part of anybody interested?LORD EMMOTT
: I think the noble Lord is right about the over-riding conditions which apply to the whole clause. I am not clear what it was that he asked me.THE EARL OF LYTTON
794: My question is, whether new large works could be put down under this clause, and if so, would anybody interested have the power of raising objec-
794LORD
EMMOTT
: I do not think any large new works could be established. What is contemplated under this clause is that the works of one railway company may be used to supply the needs of another railway company. I am informed I have made a mistake in telling the noble Lord that the £100,000 limit applies to subsection (2). It only applies to subsection (1), and therefore the £100,000 limit would not apply to the matters (a) and (b) in subsection (2). What I say is contemplated under this Bill is that when two railway companies have amalgamated, the wagon building activities of one company may be used for the interests of another company not engaged in building wagons themselves, and by that system of co-operative working it will make the wagon building done by the railway companies themselves go very much further than it does at the present moment, where it is limited to the company which manufactures the stock.THE EARL OF LYTTON
795: My noble friend and I have been misunderstood and misrepresented to a really ludicrous extent. Noble Lords, if they will forgive my saying so, have talked as if it was our wish and as if it was the effect of the Amendment we put down to prohibit railway companies from manufacturing themselves. There is nothing of that kind here. All we suggest is that that matter should be submitted to this Committee which the Bill sets up, and if that Committee says it is cheaper to go to private contractors, then the Minister of Transport and the railway companies, which have a staff of very ambitious engineers, should not be allowed to go into any grandiose scheme which will cause higher railway fares and higher transport rates to be charged to the general public. That is the whole of our object, and you will find nothing else in these words. I think the facile verbosity of the noble Earl was entirely beside the point, and, to be quite frank, I wondered where he got his proof from, because apparently when this debate opened he was unacquainted with this question.795LORD AMPTHILL
796: I wonder whether the Government would
796THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: The noble Lord who has just sat down apparently contemplates that railway directors in the future will not be imbued with the ordinary common sense of business men. Is it likely that they will place orders for locomotives and rolling stock in the dearest markets simply for the purpose of spiting private firms? They will buy their rolling stock in the cheapest quarter. And as to prices, I have had considerable experience in placing orders for locomotives in outside firms, and I will guarantee that at our Swindon works we can build them 40 to 50 per cent. cheaper.VISCOUNT CHURCHILL
: There are a great many Amendments on the Paper but I do not think that they will take so much time as might appear. Practically the whole of my Amendments, which bulk very largely on the Paper, are drafting. Again, all the Amendments standing in the name of the noble Lord, Lord Parmoor, will not be moved, because he is not here. I very much hope that we shall be able to finish to night.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I do not want to quarrel with the drafting of the Amendment, although I am bound to say I do not think it is drafted very skilfully, because the noble Earl says it applies to any railway owning or running passenger steamers, and the clause refers to all railway companies, whether running steamers or not. Any railway company running passenger and cargo boats, in so far as it is a railway company is affected by the clauses of this Bill in respect of the matters with which this Bill deals— namely, the provision of reasonable railway services, facilities and conveniences. It would not apply to the boats run by the company nor would it if the Amendment were accepted. In so far as the railway services of the companies are concerned, the insertion of this Amendment would have no effect whatever. I am afraid the insertion of these words would simply make nonsense.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: If my subsection is made so that it is not nonsense will you allow it to be brought up on Report, because what I want to get at is that these railway companies which run certain boats and get a monopoly should come under the provisions of this Bill.THE EARL OF MAYO
: They are under it.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Are their steamboats under it?THE EARL OF MAYO
: The London and North Western Railway Company, to which the noble Earl is constantly referring, is under this Bill. It is subject to the provisions of this clause now.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Their steamboats are?THE EARL OF MAYO
799: The steamboats are not, any more than they would be under the noble Earl's Amendment. I would point out to the noble Earl that the steamboats of the company are in a different position. They have no monopoly. There is nothing to prevent any company
799THE EARL OF LYTTON
: It is impossible to run competitive steamboats between Holyhead and Kingstown. It is a question of the contract for the mails. The boats that have not got the contract for the mails cannot run without the subsidy granted by the Government for the mails. But, of course, it is no use my persisting with the Amendment.THE EARL OF MAYO
801par excellence: I find it very difficult to take this Amendment seriously, because the noble Lord is asking the House to strike out the one clause which gives to the traders and users of railways the benefits of the Bill. I mentioned to your Lordships on the Second Reading that this Bill represented a balance of interests between the railway companies, the State and the traders or users of railways. This is the clause 801par excellenceTHE EARL OF LYTTON
: I hope the noble Lord will press his Amendment. The conclusion I have drawn, after listening to this debate, is that the only benefit the general public will get out of this Bill is the sliding scale of wages to which the men's representatives have agreed. All the so-called economies due to grouping I believe to be more or less fallacious. There is nothing in them. When we get back to lower wages and cheaper coal the railway companies will be able to stimulate trade and reduce rates.LORD NUNBURNHOLME
805: Clause 16 which we have now reached. has to be taken together with Clause 15 which we have just passed. In Clause 15 it is laid down that in certain circumstances the Railway and Canal Commission may make an Order to the railway companies to carry out certain objects, and if the railway companies agree, the Minister may make an Order enabling them to carry out those matters. In Clause 16 it is provided that
805THE EARL OF LYTTON
: What knowledge would they have of objections taken?THE EARL OF SELBORNE
806: They would have no knowledge of objections taken, but would consider whether the scheme
806THE EARL OF LYTTON
ipse dixit807ipse dixit" With a view to affording time for the consideration and formulation of the policy to be pursued as to the future position of undertakings to which this section applies, the following provisions shall have effect for a period of two years after the passing of this Act.": May I remind your Lordships that the Act to which the noble Earl has just referred is specifically described as a measure of temporary application only, and, in fact, in the very clause to which lie has referred, these words appear—
ipse dixit807ipse dixit" With a view to affording time for the consideration and formulation of the policy to be pursued as to the future position of undertakings to which this section applies, the following provisions shall have effect for a period of two years after the passing of this Act."LORD BLEDISLOE
808: I would like to make one explanation in, reply to the question put by Lord Selborne. He asked
808THE EARL OF LYTTON
809: if my memory serves me aright, the particular provision to which allusion has been made was accepted by this House expressly on the stipulation that it should be a temporary provision during a transition period, and I think the exact date on which that temporary power expired was August 15, 1921. On the very next day, the Goverment come down to us with a proposal to make permanent these inflated powers of a Minister. I quite agree that the suggestion which my noble friend has just made is very different to the one embodied in the Bill. It is not easy when one has an Amendment presented even with the extreme lucidity, ability and grace of my noble friend, to grasp its bearing, especially when there is legislation by reference to the provisions of the Transport Act, and therefore I speak subject to that reservation. But the position, as embodied in the Bill, is simply a proposal to give to a Minister power absolutely unheard of in our Parliamentary history— namely, that a minister, having in 'one capacity approved of a certain policy, in another capacity has power to insist that the land necessary for carrying out that policy shall be acquired by the railway company.809THE EARL OF SELBORNE
810: The noble Earl
810THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Not the Minister.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: No, but there is a parallel even for the Minister, because the powers conferred in this Bill on the Minister of Transport are precisely the same as the powers conferred on the Minister under the Small Holdings Act, where the Minister of Agriculture first decides that a small holding has to be created, and then authorises the acquisition of land, compulsorily if necessary, for the purposes of such small holding. 'Therefore, it is not really true to say that this power is something inherent in the vice of a Coalition Government, or the present Minister of Transport.THE EARL OF LYITON
811"If either such chairman reports to the Minister that he is of opinion that the proposals
811: I have not the memory of my noble friend opposite, and I confess I have completely forgotten the text of what at that time was the celebrated Clause 28, which we discussed at great length, but I have been trying to refresh my memory, and it is perfectly clear that the phraseology of that provision not only said in express terms that it only applied to operations of very large magnitude, but in its very essence it evidently is only apt for matters of very large magnitude; because the governing words are these—
811"If either such chairman reports to the Minister that he is of opinion that the proposals
811THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Or corporations.LORD BLEDISLOE
812: Or corporations. So that it is only a question of character. The undertakings evidently in the minds of those who drafted this section of the Ministry of Transport Act were great undertakings involving very large interests and matters of a very special character, a character which anybody would admit to be of, perhaps, national importance. That is the kind of import which the word"character"has. When you are dealing with small parcels of land in all parts of the country, how is the Chairman— even so able a man as the Lord Chairman of this House, or the Chairman of Ways and Means— to apply the word"character"to the acquisition of a small parcel of land? One parcel of land will not be distinguishable in character from another. It will be a question of evidence as to whether a particular parcel ought to be acquired or not; not a question of character, but of the specific conditions applying to the particular parcel. So that when the Lord Chairman or the Chairman of Ways and Means gets this Act of Parliament in his hand, he will say:"I cannot apply this word character; it is not apt. It was evidently put upon the Statute Book originally for a totally different reason." That is, in fact, the case; because it was put upon the Statute Book in order to apply to those undertakings about £ 1,000,000 in value. Indeed, that was the limit in the Act below which it would not apply at all.812THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I confess I am not entirely convinced by the very ingenious estimate which the noble Marquees behind me has just set forth with regard to the use of the word"character"in the Transport Act. It seems to a plain person that its meaning is not obscure. Assuming that the Lord Chairman and the Chairman of Committees in another place are called upon to consider the results of the inquiry that has been made about a parcel of land which it is desired to take for railway purposes, they would first consider whether the magnitude of the scheme was such as to make it necessary to bring it before Parliament. If it is proposed to take the land of a single individual for a particular purpose the question of magnitude I think might very easily arise. It might mean a very large proportion of the estate of one person.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
locus standi813: The situation is difficult. It might be described as humorous, if it were not so very serious when we consider the interests at stake.
locus standi813LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
: The situation is really very difficult. One of the troubles we are under in regard to this Bill is in having to discuss it so hurriedly, and with so little time to go into all these matters. We really have to choose between leaving powers which are very extravagant to the Government, and, if my Amendment is accepted, making it possible for one or two people to force Parliamentary proceedings instead of taking an Order from the Minister. On the whole, we are going so fast towards bureaucracy in these matters that I think I ought to take the decision of the House on my Amendment. If the decision of the House is against this Amendment, I understand the noble Earl would not object, on Report, to the other alternative, and I am greatly in hopes that if this Amendment is accepted by the House, the Government draughtsman, or the noble Earl, or somebody, will find some way to avert the dangers which they think they see lurking in the latter portion of it, between now and the Report stage.LORD EMMOTT
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now resume.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I hope your Lordships will continue until we get to Clause 31. There are low no controversial matters until we reach that clause. I agree that at this stage it is undesirable to have any further controversy, and if we can clear off the Order Paper matters on which there is no controversy it would be helpful.THE. EARL OF LYTTON
: I agree.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: The Amendments standing in my name to this clause are all purely drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: In order to safeguard the rights of Lord Lytton's Amendments I will put the Question that the first line of the subsection stand part.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: I am afraid I did not notice the noble Lord's Amendment when I said that I did not wish to take any question which was controversial. If he wishes to press it, and if the House wishes to discuss it, I will not ask your Lordships to continue the discussion on this stage. The effect of the Amendment would be to remove the clause which says that the members of this Tribunal must not be interested financially. You cannot fairly ask a man to settle rates when he is interested personally either in the rates or in the Company which is to charge them. I hope the noble Lord will not press his Amendment.THE EARL. OF LITTON
: I cannot help thinking that there is more to be said for the proposition of the noble Lord behind me than the noble Earl opposite thinks. I think that in cases of this kind—'THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Would it not be best for the House to resume?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: The noble Marquess behind me is extremely anxious that the House should be resumed, and I assume, therefore, that further discussion of this Amendment may be taken upon Report The Motion of the noble. Marquess that the House be resumed is, I take it; the Question now before us.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: It was withdrawn.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: I beg your Lordships' pardon. I think the noble Earl has been most candid and courteous, but he said just now that if we reached controversial business he would consent to the further adjournment of the discussion. When I found that the noble Marquess the Leader of the Opposition was going to continue the discussion on this Amendment, I suggested that the proper course would be for the, House to resume.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: If the noble Lord is willing to withdraw his Amendment, it can be discussed on Report, but there are some uncontroversial matters of which we can get rid in a few minutes. If the noble Lord wishes to continue the discussion on the Committee stage, I would suggest that the House be resumed.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: The last thing I wish is to subject your Lordships to any long sitting or discomfort. This matter can be raised on Report, and if by leaving it until then we can make more progress, I am quite willing to fall in with that course, and to withdraw the Amendment.LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
: I desire to ask a question as to whether it is intended that the permanent members of the Rates Tribunal are to be remunerated under this clause but not the members who May be drawn from the panel under Clause 23, subsection (4), and who are stated to be persons conversant with, and having knowledge of, technicalities that may arise in particular eases.LORD ASKWITH
: The noble Lord is correct in his assumption as to the effect of the Bill. It is not an oversight; It has always been the intention.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: They are not to be paid?LORD ASKWITH
: That is so.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: My Amendments to this clause are drafting Amendments.THE EARL OF LYTTON
820: On the Question that the House do resume I would suggest that this Bill should be put down as the first Order to-morrow. Noble Lords expected that the Corn Production Acts (Repeal) Bill Amendments would be the first Order, and accordingly have been
820THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: May I ask whether the Committee Stage of the Safeguarding of Industries Bill will be taken to-morrow?THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: As the third OrderTHE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: The noble Viscount. will remember that I was dealing only with optical glass.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I did not say that. I said wages were low, but the price of articles did not result from the exchange.LORD SHEFFIELD
692: No. I am afraid I must correct that at once. What I
692THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Oh yes. There were three sets of Resolutions. One dealt with the war period, another with what is called the reconstruction period, and the third set, intended to be permanent, with the relations between the different Allies.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: We had hoped to finish tonight, and take the Report Stage to-morrow. It will he remembered that the interval between the Committee Stage and Report, as forecasted, had to be abandoned. It is hoped to take it at the earliest possible moment.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
827: My Lords, the noble Marquess is perfectly right in his recollection that very plain statements of intention have been made, both by me in this House and by other Ministers elsewhere. On the last occasion when I replied myself to a question which dealt with the present session, I stated that, if the Bill was uncontroversial, or was likely to be treated as uncontroversial, in another Place, it was still the hope of the Governmwnt, to introduce legislation during the present session. I am informed that inquiries made in the channels commonly employed disclosed the fact that, however uncontroversial the Bill might be amongst. Scottish members, it was not uncontroversial if one took the House as a whole, and certainly would not pass on to the Statute Book without a. discussion, which might in the event prove to be protracted. As far as I know the Government has in no way modified its view that it is a separate case, and one which ought to be dealt with. I have given such assurances in this House, and I in no way recede from them. I have taken every opportunity which presented itself tome of impressing upon my colleagues s the case for the assurances that have been given.827THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I did not refer to super-phosphate, the same principle applies.LORD BLEDISLOE
: I raised the question of tractors in connection with the test of employment.LORD BLEDISLOE
: I referred to potash in connection with Part II.LORD BLEDISLOE
: In connection with Part II the question is rather more difficult, because I understand there is some question as to whether"blending"is the same thing as"manufaeturing." Therefore, I would rather like to consider that point more carefully before giving a definite answer.VISCOUNT PEEL
689: That was rather an interesting and particular case. My friend suggested that the more tractors you got into the country the more unemployment, because they did away with the necessity for a certain amount of agricultural labour, but I do not think that really bears very closely on this particular Bill. Lord Bledisloe is most interested in the question of fertilisers, and the question whether their price would be likely to be raised to the farmers as the result of this Bill. He questioned me about potash, and I am able to say to him that potash, at least in the form in which it is used in agriculture, will not come under Part I. Potash in certain compounds, of course, when it comes under the denomination of certain
689VISCOUNT PEEL
685data: Yes, I am dealing with optical glass, but I understand that at present the Government is not buying optical glass, and probably does not want to buy optical glass for some time. I do not know whether he wishes the Government to do that which was done under the old silver scheme in the United States, and to buy a great deal of glass and store it. I an told if that was done it would be very dangerous or rather very useless, because so rapid is the development in the processes, and so on, in the making of optical glass that if it was stored for five years it would be practically useless; and not only would the glass be useless, but there would be a form of subsidy. He also told us that all these different countries were taking so much care of their own optical glass and so anxious were they to produce it themselves that there would be no market. for ours. That, I should have thought, was a very good reason for safeguarding ours, but I let that pass for the moment, because, as a matter of fact, I understand we have rather a good market in the United States. A good deal of optical glass is being sent at the present time from this country to the United States.685dataVISCOUNT PEEL
686: If the noble Lord had been content to wait, I was going on to deal with that. I am certainly not going to criticise him without dealing fairly with the matter. So much was he annoyed that, I think, he even criticised me for introducing this Bill, on the ground, I believe, that I ought to hold exactly the same opinions as one of my ancestors. That seems to me a most extraordinary argument to use by so active and forward and independent a person as my noble friend. I trust that if he were to apply the same sort of argument to himself he would be a little more tolerant to his descendants, and would not cut them off with a shilling because they ventured to differ from the opinion of their distinguished ancestor.686VISCOUNT PEEL
691690: Very much the same principle applies. There is a great excess of production over consumption in this country, I understand, and therefore there are large exports. I think I have really removed the fears of my noble friend on the particular points I have mentioned and, released from this danger, I hope he may follow his natural tendencies and support the. Government on this Bill.691690VISCOUNT PEEL
: Therefore, there was no Advantage for the German exporter. That was the point. I want to point out that what I relied on as establishing a bounty was mainly the question of the difference between the internal and external valuation of the mark. That would not be affected, and that is what would do the damage, and would have to be dealt with by the collapsed exchange duty. Again, some apprehension was shown that there might be a collapsed exchange duty put on against France, and that was described as being an awkward pin-prick. I understand there is not much likelihood of that duty being put on because, owing to the conditions of the French exchange. and also in the case of the Belgian exchange, it is exceedingly doubtful whether there is really any bounty which could he dealt with under the exchange provisions of the Bill.VISCOUNT PEEL
693: I have one observation to make on that. Undoubtedly the Resolutions, or some of them, were aimed against dumping. The defence of the noble Marquess and others is that they were made in concert with other Powers, and were only to be acted upon in concert with other Powers. I cannot understand that argument. Some noble Lords, and especially Lord Beauchamp, have defended dumping and have said that the more dumped goods come in the better. In their opinion dumping is a great advantage to this country. If it is an advantage to this country then it is a criminal act on the part of the Government to try to stop it, and if the Government is trying to stop it in concert with other Powers it makes the matter all the worse. The Government, however, is not so criminal as that, because it is trying to deal with dumping by itself.693VISCOUNT PEEL
: But he also said that they were to deal with matters after the war.VISCOUNT PEEL
688" Dumping by Germany was alleged to have taken place here, but it does not appear to have gone much beyond the occasional disposal of surplus products at low prices."687" From statistics and evidence given to us, we are convinced that rough machined forgings and finished crank shafts were systematically dumped into this country. We feel certain that this was governed by political considerations, the object being to cripple our forges with a view to reducing the potential output of guns and other war material•• It should be noted also that the German steel works were constructed after observation of British practice, that they were of very large size and intended for an output far in excess of Continental requirements. Dumping was then deliberately arranged for, and was effected by means of their special selling agencies and the Kartel system.": I do not know what is the distinction. I will give him a case of economic dumping if he wishes, and this is from an absolutely unexceptionable Committee, which was appointed, I believe, by Mr. Runciman, and was presided over by Sir Alfred Booth, a shipowner, whose economic views are very well known to the noble Lord. What did the Committee report? They said—
688" Dumping by Germany was alleged to have taken place here, but it does not appear to have gone much beyond the occasional disposal of surplus products at low prices."687" From statistics and evidence given to us, we are convinced that rough machined forgings and finished crank shafts were systematically dumped into this country. We feel certain that this was governed by political considerations, the object being to cripple our forges with a view to reducing the potential output of guns and other war material•• It should be noted also that the German steel works were constructed after observation of British practice, that they were of very large size and intended for an output far in excess of Continental requirements. Dumping was then deliberately arranged for, and was effected by means of their special selling agencies and the Kartel system."VISCOUNT PEEL
684683: My Lords, as I have been asked somewhat specific questions on this Bill I think it would be only courteous to noble Lords if I made a reply on some of the points which have been submitted. The debate has been a very interesting one, and I cannot say that the bulk of the speakers have been strongly in favour of the Government measure. I should like to make two observations. First of all, I think that a great deal of the criticism offered by noble Lords— I say it with very great respect— has been of a somewhat contradictory nature. A good deal of it has been directed not so much against the provisions of this particular Bill as against an imaginary measure of general tariff reform and against the fears they entertain that this measure itself may be in some way a precursor and a harbinger of worse things to come.684683THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
: I was Chairman of Ways and Means.LORD EMMOTT
: The noble and learned Viscount said"in the House of Commons." I said I was Chairman of Ways and Means, and had nothing whatever to do with the passage of the Bill in the House of Commons. What was said at Election times is a different thing.LORD EMMOTT
: Economic dumping.LORD EMMOTT
: Of course, I cannot carry on a debate with my noble friend, but I have no chance of speaking again. He is particularly appealing to me, and may I ask him to apply himself to the definite paragraph in the Report on page 52, which recommends a process entirely different from that decided upon by the Government.LORD EMMOTT
696: Although in the House of Commons the noble Lord occupied a position which precluded him from giving effect to his true opinion, his true opinion could be explained, and was explained and given effect to at Election times; and the consequence is that the Motion which he has made, and which I shall presently put to the House, can produce no result whatever. The noble Lords who are attempting to criticise this Bill are the noble Marquess, Lord Crewe, and the noble Earl, Lord Beauchamp. Let me say at once that I have heard a great part of this debate, and I have seldom heard a debate to which, in my judgment, more has been contributed of
696THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: Really, I hope the noble Lord will forgive me. He was at that time Chairman of Ways and Means in the House of Commons, but at Election times I believe he supported that policy. Does he desire to say that he did not approve of it and support it?THE LORD CHANCELLOR
695: My Lords, the noble Earl who has just spoken has raised a wide topic of constitutional doctrine on which I must ask your leave to make a brief observation. The noble Earl says that an agreement was reached at the time of the passing of the Parliament Act that measures comparable to the present Bill should not be deemed to be comprehended within the important section which deals with Money Bills. When he speaks of a bargain having been made I must ask him the question— Between what Parties is it suggested that this bargain was made? The Party to which I belong, and to which the noble Earl belongs, were in no position to make a bargain. We were the Party that was overcome; we were overcome by Lord Beauchamp, by Lord Crewe and by others, and so far from our being in a position to ask for the slightest concession, I am unaware that we did. A deliberate policy was successfully pressed upon this House from another place that if Mr. Speaker ever certified that any Bill was a financial Bill, then the consequences should follow which we deplore to-day.695THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
694: My Lords, I do not rise to detain you with any reply to the speech of the noble Viscount to which we have just listened. I desire to put a constitutional point which I think has not been raised during the whole of the debate, and on which If feel very strongly indeed. The withdrawal of this Bill in its main provisions from the purview of your Lordships' House is, in my opinion, a great violation of the agreement entered into between the two sides at the time of the Parliament Act. That point will bear in a most important manner on the next stage of the Bill. It was most clearly laid down by those who were responsible for the Parliament Act that no Certificate would be given by the Speaker of the House of Commons under the provisions of that Act unless the Bill had to do with revenue and not with policy. In any reconsideration of the position as between the two Houses grave objection will be taken to any authority in the House of Commons, however eminent, being the judge of what should or should not be submitted to this House.694THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: The noble Earl will note that there have been several matters of importance left over to Report Stage.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: When will the Report Stage of this Bill he taken?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
data: My Lords, I will answer these two Questions together. The following table shows the net imports of wheat and wheat flour for the calendar years specified, expressed in the equivalent amount of grain, and the percentage of these imports to the estimated consumption for all purposes except seed. It has been assumed that 50 per cent. of the home crop is consumed in the year in which the harvest is reaped., and no allowance has been made for the variations in stocks held at the beginning and end of each calendar year, as dataTHE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (TILE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
839: Before the noble Earl replies to the, formidable speech of the noble and learned Lord, I venture to intervene for a moment, because this Amendment brings back to me two happy summers which I spent as a member of the Joint Committee presided over by the Duke of Richmond many years ago, who were sitting, I think, for something like ninety days in the two sessions, engaged in fixing maximum rates. That, as the noble and learned Lord has said, is dead and gone, but I am disposed to agree with him that the clause in the Bill attempts to revive the ghost of that system, while combining it with an entirely different scheme.839THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
842841840: My Lords, the noble Marquess who has just sat down has called your Lordships' attention to one small technical objection in the form of the Amendment of the noble and learned Lord. I do not dwell upon that, however, because I assume that although the Amendment is to leave out subsection (1) the intention is really to get rid of the whole clause, and therefore I will argue the matter from that point of view. We have had a very interesting speech from the
842841840THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
" upon a resolution being passed by both Houses of Parliament approving the report, either without modifications or subject to modifications agreed to by both Houses of Parliament,…": Perhaps I might mention that the words of the Clause strike me as almost inviting procedure of that kind—
" upon a resolution being passed by both Houses of Parliament approving the report, either without modifications or subject to modifications agreed to by both Houses of Parliament,…"TILE MARQUESS OF CREWE
843: I am not prepared to say that it was an invitation, but, of course, I admit that it leaves such a procedure open and I am no more competent than the noble Marquess to say what the procedure of either House should be. I would, however, urge your Lordships very
843THE EARL OF LYTTON
844"all parties whom they consider entitled to be heard, together with any representative body of traders who may desire to be heard or any person who may obtain a certificate from the Board of Trade that he is, in the opinion of the Board of Trade, a proper person.…": My Lords, it is right to say that the railway companies were free to dispute the propriety of this clause, and they exercised that freedom in another place, and although they were not successful in getting this clause removed, they are free to ask that this Amendment be carried, and they would desire it to be carried. The very—I might almost say brilliantly— ingenious explanation of the noble Earl seems to me to fail from this point of view. Where are these users of railways, what kind of users are there, who will not have the fullest representation at all stages and on the hearing of all questions before the Tribunal under the provisions of Clause 43, which gives a right to be heard to—
844"all parties whom they consider entitled to be heard, together with any representative body of traders who may desire to be heard or any person who may obtain a certificate from the Board of Trade that he is, in the opinion of the Board of Trade, a proper person.…"LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
: I cannot but think that the noble Earl made a rather halfhearted defence of this clause. He spoke of agreeing with the noble and learned Lord as to his description of the machinery of the Bill. He spoke of a degree of safeguard which some of the traders thought they would get from this clause. I cannot think that the degree of safeguard would be anything comparable to the expense and delay which would ensue to those traders by having this clause in the Bill. The settling of these maxima, as I know from experience, is a matter of time and difficulty, and months and months will be lost on red tape. These Tribunals are already overweighted, and they have more than they can do. The railways will not be able to settle down to peace and contentment if a vast number of the officials of all the railway companies are continually engaged before these Tribunals, and if uncertainty is to exist for a long time as to what these rates are to be. Nothing can be of greater advantage to the traders themselves than to have, as soon as possible, certainty, and although there may be a few sets of traders who might desire to retain these obsolete ideas of a maximum, I feel sure that when they come to consider the effects of the expense and delay of keeping on with the haggling over rates, they will realise that they will be more than compensated for allowing this clause to go by the board.LORD ASKWITH
845: I wish to say a few words upon a point which has not been touched upon, and that is that. this
845THE EARL OF PLYMOUTH
: My only point is the paint of view of the trader in this matter. I have never heard the subject discussed, but I have listened most carefully to this debate and, even from the traders' point of view, I cannot see for the life of me how the Rates Tribunal can do this work with any advantage in the time that is given them. If it has to be done, Lot it be done later on when they have time to deal with it. But so far as I can see, a great deal of their time will be spent in fixing not only the actual charges—that is another point—but this future maximum charge which, for the time being, is a purely fanciful one. I think it will interfere with their immediate duty of fixing the actual rate. Therefore, so far as I can see, even from the traders' point of view, it would be an advantage rather than a disadvantage that this clause should go out. At some later date it may be advisable to fix another lot of maximum rates and charges, but if I am correct in supposing, as I think I must be, that this Rates Tribunal must fix these maximum rates when they fix the first standard charges, I think it is asking them to do too much and it will delay what is really necessary—the fixing of the first standard charge.LORD EMMOTT
846: I assure your Lordships that my defence of this clause was certainly not half-hearted, and that I cannot possibly accept the Amendment
846THE EARL OF LYTTON
: May I in the first place thank the noble Marquess for drawing my attention to the imperfect form of this Amendment as it stands on the Paper. I would ask the leave of the House to alter it so as to move out the whole clause. I entirely disclaim any antipathy to the traders' point of view. Nor was this Amendment placed on the Paper after consultation with any railway representative.LORD SUMNER
: I did not suggest it.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I believe the traders are fully able to look after themselves. They are too sensible to suppose that this clause is any good to them, and that is why nobody is here to defend it in their favour.LORD SUMNER
: The noble and learned Lord having withdrawn his Amendment, I had better put the Question in this way—that the clause stand part of the Bill.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
: The two Amendments that I have on the Paper are for the purpose of improving the drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: If the noble and learned Lord will read the last words of the clause he will see what"fair"is defined as meaning.THE EARL OF LYTTON
849: Yes, I am quite aware of it."Fair ". is defined—at least I do not call it a definition, but still there is a proviso which says:"shall as far as practicable provide that the relative position between persons entitled to charge and other persons as existing on the said fourth day of August shall not be prejudiced or improved." I am unable to understand how you can make an alteration in a man's contract any more palatable to him by telling him that, whatever he may think, you think that it is fair and that his relative position to the party on the other side has neither been prejudiced nor improved. The point, of course, needs only to be stated. It may be good or it may be bad. I think probably it will be considered old-fashioned. Certainly it is out of harmony with much that we have in this Bill.849LORD SUMNER
851850: I have an Amendment dealing with very much the same subject. It is a matter upon which I feel very strongly, because no railway director who has entered into a bargain with any trader would think of trying to seek to escape from that bargain owing to an alteration of the circumstances due to the Government having introduced a Bill to amalgamate railways. In the Act of 1863, when amalgamation was the subject matter which was brought before Parliament, it was laid down that any bargain— I am not quoting the Statute, of course— or any arrangement or agreement entered into between a railway company and a trader, for consideration given, should not be prejudiced by the amalgamation. The amalgamation was not to put an end to the bargain or agreement that had been entered into. I have on the Paper an Amendment which deals specifically with existing agreements of this character, and 1 have in my mind several eases where the railway company have acquired land, sometimes by Parliamentary powers, sometimes voluntarily, from individual traders, and have, in consideration of the traders having sold them a portion of land, undertaken to make a special arrangement for the conveyance of the trader's goods.851850LORD GAINFORD
852: I agree with the noble Lord that this Amendment does not require long discussion, but when he says the case has only to be stated I would qualify that by saying,"Yes, if it is stated fairly." With all deference to the noble and learned Lord, I do not think his statement of the case was a fair statement, because he gave your Lordships to understand that the effect of the Bill was that where in the past, in return for some valuable consideration of land or so forth, railway companies have made an arrangement with an individual or company to quote them in future a special rate below the general rate to the company, that bargain was by this Bill set aside and was not in future to be carried out.852THE EARL OF LYTTON
853: I should be extremely sorry if 1 had represented the terms of this clause in any way that would be considered unfair, but I remain entirely impenitent. I am under the impression that my description of the clause was correct, and I do not desire that it should be anything more. If I was not fair to the clause in the sense of putting the best complexion on it that could be put on it, I did not wish to do that. I wish to let the House know what the clause means and does. What the clause means and does—and the noble Earl accepts it—is that I, who make a contract say, in the year 1860, for a consideration which is
853LORD SUMNER
: I do not think the noble and learned Lord who has just spoken has quite realised that the reason why all these contracts are being altered is that a great war has happened. The whole transport of the country is upset, and it has to be rectified and put in order again. TheLORD ABINGER
: I suggest that the words"if any"should be inserted after the word"adjustment." I think the Tribunal should have power not only to make an adjustment but to leave the position as it is if, in their opinion, no adjustment is required.LORD GAINFORD
: I accept the addition.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: The next Amendment is drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I will, of course, consult those who advise me in this matter on the point. I cannot hold out any hope that an Amendment could he inserted in the Bill to meet it. I will put before them, however, the matter which the noble Lord has raised, and discuss it with them.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: In that case I do not want to press my Amendment.LORD GAINFORD
: Both my Amendments to this clause are drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: This clause was inserted in the Grand Committee in another place for the purpose of protecting shipping and canal interests from the unfair competition of exceptional railway rates. As I understand the noble Lord, he wishes to place those who run lorries and motor wagons on the roads in the same position as these canal and shipping undertakings. I would submit to the noble Lord that the circumstances of the parties whom he represents in this Amendment are in no sense comparable with those to which the clause at present applies. Coastwise shipping is in a peculiar position, in that it is absolutely vital to the life of the country. Without this coastwise traffic, it would be impossible for large ports such as London, Liverpool, Hull, Bristol, and so forth, to be promptly cleared in case of an emergency. Canals, on the other hand, are statutory undertakings. They have charges which themselves are regulated by statute. The road transport to which my noble friend's Amendment applies is in an entirely different category. These road transport carriers are to-day competitors with the railway companies. The railway companies would have no voice in the rates which they might charge, and the noble Lord says that the road transport interests should have a voice in preventing the railway companies from reducing their charges, in case it would affect the amount charged by these motor lorries.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: In answer to the noble Earl, I should be glad to know whether, under the heading of road transport, he includes tramways; for tramways and motor buses around London might be serious competitors with the railways. It might happen that if the railways cut fares to the suburbs round London, they would kill the tramways equally with the road transport. Am I to understand that tramways have no power to apply to the Rates Tribunal, but that only the shipping and canal interests can do so?LORD MONTAGU OF BEAULIEU
: That is so under this clause.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I agree to that.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Both my Amendments to this clause are drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: My Amendment is drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Both my Amendments are drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: My Amendment is drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: This also is drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: There are three drafting Amendments to this clause.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Yes, they are included.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Would it not be better to make it clearer?LORD ASKWITH
: I ant advised that the Amendment is unnecessary, because these season tickets would be included in the words"other charges '' in the Bill. It is undesirable to insert an Amendment which is not necessary.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I do not move.LORD ASKWITH
: I beg to propose a drafting Amendment here.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I am prepared to accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I accept this Amendment.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I am advised that this Amendment will not really make any alteration in the sense of the clause. This Tribunal has two duties to perform, and I am not aware that this Amendment would alter the relative importance of those two duties; but, if the noble Lord attaches great importance to it, I have no objection.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: The next Amendment is consequential on the previous one.LORD ASKWITH
: I accept this Amendment.THE EARL OF LYTTON
locus standi867: I am afraid I cannot accept this Amendment. The noble Lord said he thought it was wrong that a little body of persons should have these powers, but by his Amendment he would prevent a big body of persons having them. Surely it is right that such a body as the Federation of British Industries for instance, should be entitled to make these representations and that it should not be necessary for there to be two such bodies. Therefore, I object to the first part of the Amendment because it brings in two bodies, and I think that a body which is really representative, such as the Federation of British Industries might be, ought to have the rights given in the clause of itself without the necessity of another body being added to it. Then I submit this is not the proper place in the Bill in which to bring in representatives of a locality. A locality ought not to have any right of reviewing a general rate which is fixed for the whole country. Whereas, under Clause 35, a locality has the power to secure a partial revision of its rates, we are dealing here with a
locus standi867THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I beg to move an Amendment consequential upon the omission of Clause 31—to leave out the proviso to subsection (4).LORD SUMNER
: I beg to move the drafting Amendment which is on the Paper.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: My four Amendments on this clause are of a purely drafting character.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I beg to move the group of Amendments which stand in my name on the Paper. They are entirely drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I accept this Amendment.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: The next Amendment is purely drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I agree.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I cannot accept this Amendment. The clause imposes an obligation on all the railway companies to make certain returns, and it also provides a power varied in form. This Amendment of the noble Lord, if I understand it aright, would give power to the Registrar to exempt certain companies from making any returns. That, I think, is undesirable. The noble Lord may say that the Minister may not exercise this power, but as it is intended that every company should he subjected to the same obligation to provide returns, I do not want to have anything put into the Bill which would give. the companies the right to assume that they could demand to be put in a special position and to be exempted. That would only lead to pressure being brought to bear upon the Minister by individual companies to obtain such exemption. I do not know whether that is the intention of the noble Lord, but it appears to be the effect of his Amendment.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: That was not the intention. My intention was that there should be an opportunity of not insisting upon returns being made when those returns were unnecessary. These returns absorb a lot of time in their preparation, and there may be cases in which railway companies might very well be relieved from the trouble and expense of preparing a mass of statistics which may not be necessary.LORD ASKWITH
: I am obliged to the noble Lord for his explanation, and I can assure him that his Amendment is not necessary. If any of these tables are discontinued that would be a variation under the clause as it stands. The insertion of his words would have the effect I mentioned, and I hope he will be satisfied by my assurance and not move his Amendment.THE EARL OF LYWON
: This small railway is a narrow gauge line, and I understand from my noble friend that it is intended that it should' be grouped with other narrow gauge lines in the district. As that is in accordance with the grouping principle of the Bill, I am prepared to accept the Amendment.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I have reason to object to the Amendment which has been moved by my noble friend opposite. Perhaps the noble Lord will be surprised that I should say a word on this Amendment, but I do it on behalf of my noble friend, Lord Erskine, who is detained from your Lordships' House by indisposition. He has asked me to represent to your Lordships the difficulty in which certain clients of his, if I may so call them, stand, if this Amendment is accepted. It seems that the dock of Boston stands in the position of a competing dock to the dock of King's Lynn. My noble friend shakes his head, but perhaps he will allow me to deliver my message. Those who control this undertaking represent that if the King's Lynn railway and dock have the great advantage of being amalgamated in this great group and they are left outside the effect will be that the great group will deflect all the traffic that they can so as to help the dock of King's Lynn to the detriment of the dock of Boston. That prima facie sounds to me good sense. The Boston people do not wish in the least to stand in the way of King's Lynn. They would be very glad that this Amendment should be accepted, but they plead that if King's Lynn is put in Boston should be put in as well. I do not pretend to be familiar with the locality, but I think it right that the interest of these persons should be properly laid before His Majesty's Government, and I hope they will take the matter into their consideration.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
876: I am afraid I cannot accept the noble Lord's Amendment and for reasons which have been made apparent by the speech to which we have just listened. Neither can I accept the Amendment to the Amendment suggested by the noble Marquess. The Boston dock municipal undertaking is not a railway at all. It is not a railway-owned undertaking and therefore does not come within the purview or title of the Bill, and I do not think it could, by any means, be included in the Bill. King's Lynn Dock and Railway
876THE EARL OF LYTTON
: The next three Amendments are drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
880: As we have now reached the last Amendment on the Paper in this long and complicated Bill, I am sorry that I cannot give Lord Strachie the satisfaction of accepting his Amendment. This Schedule deals with Amendments made in this and other Acts, and this particular section deals with Section 7 of the Railway and Canal Traffic Act, 1854. That Section of that Act deals with the maximum of liability on railway companies for loss or injury to any animals carried on their line. The present limitation is £2 per head in the case of sheep and pigs, which in the Bill is raised to £5 per head. The Amendment would raise it to £15 per head for pigs and £7 10s. for sheep. I do not suppose, even when these maxima were fixed in 1854, that £2 covered the value of every animal carried on the railway. Certainly in recent years it has been true that animals of a much higher value than £2 have been carried.880THE EARL OF LYTTON
: My Amendment to this Schedule is purely drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: May I ask the Leader of the House when he proposes to take the Report stage of this Bill?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I propose to put it down to-morrow, if your Lordships consent.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: Will it be the first Order to-morrow?LORD STUART OF WORTLEY
881: I think it will probably be for the convenience of your Lordships, as well as for the despatch of business in another place, that we should put it down
881THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
884obiter dictumobiter dictum: My Lords, I should have taken very strong exception to the inclusion of the matter of cottage rates in the matters considered by the committees. With regard to the action of the wages board, whether it was an arbitral act of theirs, or not, I am very doubtful whether they ever had legal power to deal with this matter. But whether it was by an 884obiter dictumobiter dictumLORD HARRIS
: Taking the two classes of infirm labourers—that is to say, those who are likely to suffer at the hands of unscrupulous employers, and those who are likely to suffer owing to the fears of quite fair and honest employers—if the Commons Amendment, is accepted, consider that the second class is by far the larger; that is to say that them are far more labourers who are likely to he prejudiced by the loss of employment owing to the fears of big arrears of wages being run up against the employer than there are labourers who will be maltreated by unscrupulous employers. For that reason I have no choice but to support the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury, in resisting the Amendment.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, I hope the suggestion of my noble friend Lord Bledisloe will be accepted. I am rather sorry that the Government made any compromise at all in this matter, because it would have been better, in my judgment, if the law as it stands in the Corn Production Act had remained in operation. There is no limit to the period during which proceedings might be taken now. Three months might be a fair compromise, though I would infinitely prefer that there should be no limitation at all. The present provision has worked very well with the wages boards. Terms can easily be obtained all over the country, and where they have not been obtained it has been simply because the farmer has deliberately chosen to break the law. If the Government accepted Lord Bledisloe's suggestion I should support them; otherwise I am bound to confess that I hope the Government will stand by their original proposal.THE EARL OF PORTSMOUTH
: The Question is that the House do amend the Commons Amendment by the insertion of the said words.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
cba3. The Government having invested (cba(This sum was invested in the Standard Ship Building and Engineering Company, Messrs. Edward Finch and Company, and the Chepstow Property Company.)
(This sum was invested in the Standard Ship Building and Engineering Company, Messrs. Edward Finch and Company, and the Chepstow Property Company.)2. £656,250 given for the encouragement of the building of standard ships in the summer of 1918.1. £1,198,000 invested in the Commercial Bank of Siberia.
cba3. The Government having invested (cba(This sum was invested in the Standard Ship Building and Engineering Company, Messrs. Edward Finch and Company, and the Chepstow Property Company.)
(This sum was invested in the Standard Ship Building and Engineering Company, Messrs. Edward Finch and Company, and the Chepstow Property Company.)2. £656,250 given for the encouragement of the building of standard ships in the summer of 1918.1. £1,198,000 invested in the Commercial Bank of Siberia.: My Lords, I beg to ask His Majesty's Government as to losses incurred by the State on investments made by the Government, and to move for a Return in the following form—cba3. The Government having invested (cba(This sum was invested in the Standard Ship Building and Engineering Company, Messrs. Edward Finch and Company, and the Chepstow Property Company.)
(This sum was invested in the Standard Ship Building and Engineering Company, Messrs. Edward Finch and Company, and the Chepstow Property Company.)2. £656,250 given for the encouragement of the building of standard ships in the summer of 1918.1. £1,198,000 invested in the Commercial Bank of Siberia.
cba3. The Government having invested (cba(This sum was invested in the Standard Ship Building and Engineering Company, Messrs. Edward Finch and Company, and the Chepstow Property Company.)
(This sum was invested in the Standard Ship Building and Engineering Company, Messrs. Edward Finch and Company, and the Chepstow Property Company.)2. £656,250 given for the encouragement of the building of standard ships in the summer of 1918.1. £1,198,000 invested in the Commercial Bank of Siberia.THE EARL OF MAYO
: No, I do not think it will.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
900: I think I can assure my noble friend that no reflection was intended on the position of the Lord Chancellor by the curious collocation of words to which he has drawn attention. On behalf of the Government I am gratified that my noble friend approves very much of the alterations that were made in the clause before it left another place. I do not know whether his enthusiasm was called forth more by the fact that the Lord Chancellor was appointed instead of the Treasury, or by the fact that all officials were excluded from being persons who might act in this particular capacity. According to my noble friend, the object of this Amendment is that there should be a full appeal from the referee so appointed, on all questions of fact as well as of law, in connection with the lists which are to be published from time to time by the Board of Trade, defining exactly what particular articles come under the more general definitions as set out in the Schedule.900THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
: I should like to ask the noble Viscount opposite who is in charge of the Bill exactly what is intended by this procedure. Am I to understand that the referee will be appointed ad hoc in each case, and that he will be a person specially competent by his knowledge and experience to deal with the particular matter under consideration? As your Lordships will notice, there is a great variety of articles of very different type in the Schedule, and the same man would obviously not be competent to give a reliable opinion as to whether or not different classes of goods did or did not fall within that long list of different classes.LORD BLEDISLOE
: May I ask the noble Viscount whether he proposes 'to insert a drafting Amendment in order to put right the ridiculous mistake regarding the Lord Chancellor which has been pointed out? I assume that if it was a Bill of an ordinary character it would be done. I should like to know whether the noble Viscount considers himself debarred from a harmless step of that kind owing to the fact that the Bill has received the Speaker's Certificate as a Money Bill.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I suppose the position on that point was correctly stated by the noble Lord on my right. I suppose that it is possible to insert Amendments, but it is equally possible for another place to declare that they are all privilege and refuse to consider them. That is a matter for another place rather than for your Lordships' House.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Yes, undoubtedly, but, as the noble Viscount knows, it is open to another place to waive its privilege at any time and on any subject.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
902: That is so. The noble Marquess also asked me whether I was precluded from introducing an Amendment of the nature he indicated. I hardly think I run absolutely precluded from making a verbal Amendment of that kind, but, as 1 say, it is subject to the fact that it: may be treated as part of a privilege Amendment. whether it improves the sense of the Bill or not.902VISCOUNT PEEL
: After what the noble Viscount has said I do not propose to put your Lordships to the trouble of a Division.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: The noble Marquess, I think, protested, or claimed, that agriculture should be called a key industry.VISCOUNT PEEL
: No; I beg the noble Viscount's pardon. On the contrary, I regard agriculture as a staple industry; but I said that it has often been so described without contradiction from His Majesty's Government.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
905: I am sorry that His Majesty's Government were not more careful on those occasions to make it quite clear that they considered agriculture a staple industry, because I was going to protest. that it is, in fact, a misnomer to apply the term"key industry"to agriculture."Key industry," so far as I attempted to define it on the Second Reading of this Bill, applies to peculiar kinds of very technical small industries. It clearly would be absurd to apply a term of that kind to the gigantic industry of agriculture, and I am glad that on this point, at least, the noble Marquess and I are absolutely of one mind.905VISCOUNT PEEL
ba906: I should like to point out that, as you have already selected food and drink as vital matters for the
ba906LORD SHEFFIELD
908volte faceba907: The noble Viscount opposite found fault with the words in which this Amendment is expressed, but if he bas, at heart, any sympathy with the object. of the Amendment, I have no doubt he will make it possible for us so to reconstruct the actual Amendment as to Make it more palatable to himself and his
908volte faceba907LORD BLEDISLOE
: May I appeal to the Government to consider the damage which is going to be done by this Bill to agriculture. Up to now it has been able to use the best machinery obtainable all over the world, but under this Bill von are going to stop all that. When we wish to dump our own agricultural machines upon other countries they will put up a tariff wall against us, and we probably dump as many agricultural machines in Europe and elsewhere as any other country. I believe that provisions of this sort are going to do this country very great harm.LORD NUNBURNHOLME
909: I hope that the noble Viscount in charge of the Bill will pay attention to the remarks that have been made. The agricultural interest feels that it is being very badly left in the lurch, because people engaged in it may have to buy in a protected market and sell in an open market, and that is a thing which no person engaged in ally trade wishes to do. If, by any chance, any manufacturer of agricultural interests can make out such a in case that the Government allow 33½ per cent. to be put upon those articles, there will no doubt be great hardship to the farmer who has to buy the machines, and it must be remembered that machine makers, like all manufacturers, have a great weakness for combining and going into small syndicates and trusts.909LORD CAWLEY
910: I wonder whether I might appeal to the noble Viscount to respond to what is obviously the general wish of thy,. House? no well-wisher of the Government can desire to see the chasm which has grown up already between them and the agricultural interest widened, as it must be if they persist in refusing the Amendment. What is the position? We are all aware of the necessity of economy, which has driven the Government to withdraw what was regarded as as firm a Parliamentary bargain as was ever made with any industry in this country; and we know that, within six months, for the first time, as far as I know, in the history of this Parliament, a policy so adumbrated and embodied in an Act of Parliament has been withdrawn, and the whole industry left in an entirely different position. I am not complaining. I believe the second action of the Government was better than the first. But no human being can fail to see how strong a feeling has been evoked throughout the agricultural world. On top of that we get the proceedings of this afternoon, when the Government has been endeavouring, still to keep up some of the agricultural wages,
910THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: I should like to support the noble Earl who has just spoken. The question is really one of the production of food. The price of the loaf stands at over one shilling now, and what the masses want is cheap bread. If you keep out cheap agricultural machinery the farmers of this country cannot produce wheat to enable the loaf to collie down. The tractors that one now sees all over the country are most important articles of machinery for tilling the land for wheat—and wheat this year is one of the finest crops that England has ever grown, although it is not so big as it should be. May I suggest to Lord Crewe that he should I confine the Amendment to agricultural machinery for the. present? I hope he will do so, because I feel it is a very much larger question than the matters which are dealt with in this small Bill.THE EARL OF MAYO
: May I say one word? His Majesty's Government have done enough harm to the agricultural interest as it is, God knows, and I only hope they will give us a bit of a chance now.THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
" After drink ' to insert or agricultural implements, or fertilisers used in the practice of agriculture: "911: So far as the wording of the Amendment is concerned, I am quite willing to alter it. It was taken bodily from an Amendment moved in another place, and if your Lordships would like to see it in different terms I should
" After drink ' to insert or agricultural implements, or fertilisers used in the practice of agriculture: "911THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Probably it would be simpler to take the Division on the noble Marques 's Amendment as first moved. It states the broad issue.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Very well.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I was very much interested to hear so many noble Lords who have spoken on behalf of agriculture regretting, and regretting most pathetically, that wheat was brought into this country without any duty.VISCOUNT PEEL
: No.SEVERAL NOBLE LORDS
912: I am afraid I cannot help them, and I am afraid that, if I were to accept the suggestion, I should bring down upon myself immediately all the indignation of my noble friend, Lord Emmott, who would regard me as a lost soul. Some of the speeches of noble Lords have shown that they really have not appreciated this Bill at all, and that they have been treating the Bill not as an antidumping Bill or a key-industries Bill, but as a general tariff Bill. If it were so, I agree that many of their arguments would he relevant. Lord Mayo and Lord Nunburnholtne would then really have spoken with effect.912VISCOUNT PEEL
: May I be allowed to correct the noble Viscount, because he has made that mistake twice—on the last stage of the Bill and on this. I particularly joined forces with my noble friend, Lord Sheffield, in pointing out, that as regards machinery (A) applies, and as to fertilisers (B) applies. Therefore, the machinery has nothing whatever to do with the depreciation of currency as between us and the United States.LORD BLEDISLOE
: Oh, yes it has; I assure the noble Lord that it has. It would not come under collapsed exchanges, and I think the noble Lord has entirely misunderstood what I said. There are two kinds of dumping. There is the selling of goods at 5 per cent. less than the cost of production in the country, and there is the other question of this depreciation of value owing to collapsed exchanges. The noble Lord has entirely misapprehended my argument. I am not talking of collapsed exchanges as regards America. I am saying that. under the relative values of the American currency and our own, it. would be quite impossible for them under (A)—that is, under the dumping clauses—to send machinery into this country at less than the cost of production in this country. I am dealing with (A), and not with (B), which is collapsed exchanges.VISCOUNT PEEL
: They are probably doing it now.A NOBLE LORD
: It is quite impossible that. they can be doing it in the present conditions of trade.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Will the noble Viscount kindly explain why it is impossible? We all know that it is going on.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: I assure the noble Earl that it is not going on, because the exchange is now 3.60 in dollars as compared with the £ sterling. I will not say it is absolutely impossible, but the loss would be so great to the American exporter that it is practically impossible for it to take place.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I never said so.LORD SHEFFIELD
: Yes; I treasure the noble Lord's words more than he does himself. Now he is telling us of the great. danger there would be because of the putting on of that. 33⅓ per cent. During this discussion, I have not heard one single word about the manufacturer of these tractors and implements in our own country. Do not noble Lords opposite consider British trade at all? Do not they consider the manufacturers of this country? Do they consider it fair that our manufacturers of these implements—which, to my own knowledge, arc quite as good as. and better than many of the tractors that they speak of with such enthusiasm as coming in from Anierica would have no chance? They are not avoiding competition. Goods can beVISCOUNT PEEL
: I only want to say one word in justification of myself and to show how completely the noble Viscount has misunderstood what I said. I never said that the depreciation of currency was an advantage. I said the opposite. I. said that the whole theory that the Germans could export because of their depreciated currency was a fallacy. I night refer the noble Viscount to this very excellent Report, which I have no doubt he has studied, and which states that the German manufacturers of machinery find it very difficult to compete with Belgium and France, although the depreciation of the currency in Belgium and France is down to about one-half of our currency, while the depreciation of currency in 'Germany, is down to one-twelfth of our currency. I do not agree with the noble Viscount's theory at all. I say it is all nonsense, and I can only view this absurd Bill on the grounds which I have put forward.LORD SHEFFIELD
: I am not quite sure as to what is the full meaning of the Amendment of the noble Earl. Does he mean to exclude France as regards both (A) and (B)—ordinary dumping and collapsed exchange dumping? I think that is the effect of his Amendment. Is that his intention?VISCOUNT PEEL
: That is certainly the form in which I have moved it. If it is the wish of the House I would exclude (A).EARL BEAUCHAMP
918: I suppose I had better deal with it on the lines on which it has been moved. I am going to make an appeal to the noble Earl not to press his Amendment, or, if he does press it, I am going to make a very strong appeal to your Lordships not to divide upon it. What is the proposal? We have many Allies besides Fiance, and what your Lordships are asked to do is to make a special exception in favour of only one of those. Allies. I think an Amendment of this kind was moved in another place, but it was a far more tactfully and carefully worded one, because it did not specially single out France, but wanted all our Allies to be exempted. It is not necessary for me to say what -Would be the effect of singling out one Ally and not including the rest, but I am afraid it is not an Amendment which, upon any ground, it is possible to accept, because the very fact of putting France outside this provision would have the effect of compelling His Majesty's Government to accord similar treatment to all countries having a"most-favoured. nation clause"regarding the Customs' duties of this country.918VISCOUNT PEEL
919: The noble Viscount has made a strong appeal to your Lordships not to support my noble friend, Lord Beauchamp, if he presses this Amendment. He stated, in the first instance, that it was an invidious thing to do to select France for this particular privilege, while leaving out some of the other Allies, but, of course, if that were the only objection which the noble Viscount took, it would be very simple to amend the Amendment by adding the names of Italy, Belgium and Portugal, who were the original Allies at the time of the Paris Resolutions, upon which noble Lords have laid so much stress. I think it is pretty clear that the reason why Inv noble friend mentioned France, and France only, was explained by what was said either by him or by some others in the debate on the Second Reading—namely, that the actual effect of this measure as it stands will be to hit France very hard, whereas it does not hit the other Allies in the same manner. As we have no commercial Treaty with France, France falls immediately under the possible ban, whereas the other countries, unless our Treaties with them are denounced, escape under the terms of the Bill.919THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: If I cannot secure more support from your Lordships' House in this direction, naturally I should wish to withdraw my Amendment, but in doing so, I would answer the criticism made by the noble Viscount., on behalf of His Majesty's Government, in asking why it was that France alone was chosen. The answer is obvious. First of all, it is because France has protested, and secondly, as has just been said by the noble Marquess, the leader of the Opposition, it is because France is the only one of our Allies with which we have not a commercial Treaty at the present moment, and therefore she would come, or might come, at once under the operation of this Bill.EARL BEAUCHAMP
921: The object of the Amendment is to make a considerable alteration in the Bill. Instead of this committee of business men, selected from a particular panel, it sets up a Committee of the House of Commons chosen by
921VISCOUNT PEEL
: I sympathise with the object of my noble friend, but I am going to ask him not to press the Amendment, for two reasons. He will admit that a committee of five is a much more convenient body than a committee of six, and for obvious reasons. But. if we are to specify the great business of agriculture we should have to specify a great many other businesses as well, and he knows how troublesome all that specification becomes in an Act of Parliament. I can tell him for his own information that I understand that some representative of agriculture will be placed on the panel, and that the President of the Ministry of Agriculture will be asked to select one. I hope that will satisfy him.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I fully appreciate the undertaking which the noble Viscount has given. In the ordinary interpretation of the word"industry"in an Act of Parliament, it excludes agriculture, and if that is so I suggest, in pursuance of what he has now said, that the word"industry"shall be interpreted so as to include agriculture.LORD BLEDISLOE
: I do not think it is necessary to do that. I have consulted the Board of Trade and they think that their action will not be inconsistent with the terms of the Bill.VISCOUNT PEEL
: There is a question of interpretation on which I should like some information. Will the meetings of the Committee, and the nature ' of the applications which will come before it, be publicly advertised so that firms interested may have an opportunity of being represented? Firms may wish to be represented at the inquiry, and unless there is a public advertisement of the fact they cannot become acquainted with the date of the inquiry. The other question is this. Part II is to come into force on October 1. The date of the coming into force of the rest of the Bill does not appear to be specified. Will it be possible to make an Order under Part II before October 1?EARL BEAUCHAMP
: The noble Earl knows well that the meetings of the Committee are to be held in public, and the fact that a Committee has been appointed to meet and decide some specific point will have to be made public. I understand that is the intention of the Board of Trade. As to the other question, the other portion of the Bill is to come into force immediately the Bill becomes law. The noble Earl asks me whether Orders made under Part II could be made before October 1. The period is very short, and I understand that while it is theoretically possible that they might be made it is actually impracticable that they should be made.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I am much obliged.EARL BEAUCHAMP
: For dumping?VISCOUNT PEEL
925: The Order can be made for three years, and at any time before it has expired, which may be a few days before the Bill lapses, another Order can be made, also for three years. At the end of the clause it is specifically stated that such an Order shall not be made on the ground of the depreciation of foreign currency for more than three years. I challenge both those figures. As regards foreign currency no human being appears to be able to gauge its probable movement from day to day. I do not think a single financial authority of any description predicted the enormous fall in the German mark which has occurred in the last few days, and to contemplate a single Minister in a Government Department sitting down and giving an Order based upon what he believes will be the condition, of foreign currency for three years from now, is to put a power and a responsibility on any man which seems to me to be unwise, which is inequitable to various trades, and which, I fancy, may recoil very much on the Government who have placed it in the Bill.925THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: It was Lord Cawley, not Lord Colwyn. I am very glad to have the opportunity of saying that it was wrongly stated. I was certainly not criticising Lord Colwyn, who made a speech or the subject. It was Lord Cawley whom I was criticising.VISCOUNT PEEL
926: I apologise to the noble Lord for having given his thunder to anybody else. At all events, his high authority was contrasted, in a sentence which, I think, suggested that every board of directors would be rushing to get their particular industry into the charmed circle, with the estimate made by the noble Marquess behind me, that the Bill would be to a large extent inoperative. One certainty arises out of that namely, that the whole question is a matter of doubt. That being sc., I do think, in view of the enormous body of commercial feeling which exists against the passage of the Bill at all, that the Government ought to meet us Halfway with regard to its duration believe that it would be a wise course in their own interests. I have suggested two years as the period, but if the Government attach great importance to the period being somewhat longer, provided there is a substantial reduction, I should certainly not quarrel with them on that point. But I demur to the possibility of any Minister being allowed, as he is by this clause, at
926THE EARL OF MIDLETON
927: I dislike referring to, or making any complaint as to the speech which I made on the introduction to this Bill, but I attempted to make it clear, though I suppose I did not succeed, that there was a marked distinction between the different portions of the Bill. I used certain phrases, too, about what I may call the common or ordinary dumping, to distinguish it from the dumping connected with collapsed exchanges, and, of course, from the. other portion of the Bill. The desire of the noble Earl, I think, amounts practically to the rejection of the Bill, and it is as a Second Reading objection that I am afraid it must be treated. If the Amendment of the noble Earl were carried, it is just as much a rejection of the Bill as if it had been rejected on the Second Reading.927VISCOUNT PEEL
: I must remind the noble Viscount that I particularly guarded myself. I was not dealing with key industries, but particularly devoted my whole argument to the question of dumping.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: I agree; but I am dealing with the effect of the Amendment—it does not matter to what the noble Earl addressed himself in his speech—and was showing what would be the result of the Amendment if it were passed.VISCOUNT PEEL
: It does not affect key industries at all. The noble Viscount has advanced several arguments in the course of the discussion which are not justified. How does what is done under t his clause affect key industries?THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: The noble Earl wishes to give two years for the general currency of the Bill.VISCOUNT PEEL
: But this refers to dumping.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
928: I am going to deal with dumping in a moment. With regard to collapsed exchanges, I agree that it is a far more difficult problem. I agree also that it passes the wit of man to know at what time, or in what period, these exchanges may be re-established, and the period of time which was selected, of three years, gave considerable trouble to the Government. Various times were proposed, but on the whole they came to the conclusion that three years was a reasonable period, because it has, I believe, generally, been the experience of the Board of Trade that currencies have re-established themselves much more slowly than was generally expected, and so they thought that three years was a rather better period than two years. I may point out that no harm will be done if the longer period is taken, because it is obvious that, if in that period the depreciation of currency in any
928VISCOUNT PEEL
929: I cannot help thinking that the noble Viscount has only himself to thank if it is not entirely clear to the House that this provision against dumping was intended to be a permanent provision; because, if that is so, it is not quite clear why Orders made under this part of the Bill should only continue for three years, or, as apparently is even expected, for a shorter period. If the noble Viscount and His Majesty's Government were in earnest in treating the prohibition of dumping as part of our permanent legislation, it is not clear why they did not say so, and why they did not try to pass an Act of Parliament making the dumping of any article, under certain conditions, permanently an offence. Why, therefore, should the Order for what is called ordinary dumping only last for three years, or less?929THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I only wanted to say two words in support of the noble Earl's Amendment, because I am bound to say that f roust plead guilty to having been under a complete misapprehension. I thought, and I believe most people thought that all I he provisions of this Bill were of an experimental character. I have looked at the Bill and examined it from that point of view, and I found, so regarding it, that there were apparently three forms of time limit. One was the limit of three years for ordinary dumping, and that might be extended to another three years. The second period had regard to exchanges, which could only go on for three years after the passing of this Act, and the third periodTHE EARL OF DESART
: In order to make it quite clear let me say that five years is the period for.Parr I of the Bill; three years for the collapsed exchanges; and for the ordinary dumping eternity is the only limit.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I hope it is quite clearly understood that this Division and this Amendment are directed towards the dumping and not towards the key industries, to which the noble Viscount directed the more picturesque part of his remarks.EARL BEAUCHAMP
: There are three consequential Amendments to the Amendment just agreed to.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: I suggest that the House should now resume. It is expected that a Royal Commission will take place in a few moments, and I would therefore ask your Lordships to reassemble at nine o'clock.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: The noble Earl speaks of a Royal Commission as though it were absolutely necessary that it should assemble at a particular hour. I dare say it is convenient to some persons that it should do so, but I well recollect occasions, when important business was before your Lordships' House, when a Royal Commission has had to wait for an hour or an hour and a half before it could sit. And, as a matter of fact, I very much doubt whether the whole of the further proceedings on this Bill would take more than half an hour. But, of course, it is a matter for your Lordships to decide.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Many of us have not taken part in these discussions this afternoon simply because we thought it was for the general convenience to get through before dinner.LORD EMMOTT
: I am entirely in your Lordships' hands. A Royal Commission has to be fixed in advance for a particular time, and it so happens that seven o'clock was fixed. It was postponed for half an hour, because it was thought that would be most convenient. If your Lordships desire to sit on now I suppose I could convey to the other House, who have made arrangements, I believe, to have it at half past seven, that we cannot receive them then.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I think the noble Earl will see that, if this business is to be finished in half an hour, it would be asking a great deal of your Lordships to come back after dinner. I do not think that would be reasonable at all.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: We desire to take the Report stage of this Bill tonight.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: It will be very soon over.LORD SHEFFIELD
: I think it is quite clear that the Report stage will be purely formal and will not take up very much of your Lordships' time. At the same time, the Government may reasonably expect to get the Report stage as well as the Committee. It is well known, I think, that a hungry House is more likely to be expeditious than one which has just finished dinner.EARL BEAUCHAMP
: I shall be very happy to fall in with your Lordships' desire, and if it is the general understanding that, as far as circumstances permit, we shall finish in half an hour, and then adjourn, and will convey to those concerned the expectation of holding the Royal Commission at 8 o'clock.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
935: I think I can shorten the proceedings by saying that I have on the Paper a subsequent Amendment referring to the second paragraph
935LORD BLEDISLOE
: I only desire to say one word. No money practically will be lost if this Amendment is accepted by the Government. Like other members of your Lordships' House I have had the strongest representations from professors at the Universities, and people of that kind, in regard to the great hardship that will be inflicted upon them. I have had a letter from a professor at Victoria University, Manchester, in which he urges this exemption because he hears from colleagues in Canada and South Africa and other places that the educational institutions there are exempt from the payment of duties on educational and scientific outfits, and he pleads that similar treatment should be accorded in this country.LORD EMMOTT
936: I understand that my noble friend, Lord Bledisloe, is not going to move the Amendment that he has put down, because it is more than covered by that of the noble Marquess. I was going to give the noble Lord an answer on the specific points raised by his Amendment,
936VISCOUNT PEEL
: Provided they are actually used.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I am afraid that would make a tremendous gash in this schedule. It would not cut out the schedule altogether, but it would cut out a very large portion of it. I think the Amendment is perhaps more comprehensive than the noble Marquess intended, because the bulk of these instruments are imported I understand, for scientific work. Therefore, his Amendment would be exceedingly destructive. Moreover, I am informed that it is impossible to distinguish between those objects which are used in a University laboratory and those used in a works laboratory. It is suggested that possibly a better way, and one which may meet the feelings of noble Lords, is to give a subsidy to assist research as much as possible. That would be a more easy way to do it, and I understand it is already being done. As regards the educational aspect of the matter, in the ordinary course I would have said to the noble Marquess that I would represent his views to the Minister responsible for this Bill, but unfortunately, in the circumstance under which we are now having our discussions tinder the Parliament Act, I am afraid it would be useless for me to give any such promise. I am sorry I cannot meet the noble Marquess in this respect.VISCOUNT PEEL
: It could be done if the Minister agreed to the suggestion.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
937: I am afraid it would lead to a long discussion in another place. That is the difficulty. I think I ought to point out that if we really are to depend for our scientific research upon these articles imported from abroad, our scientific research is in a. somewhat dangerous condition, and were we again, unfortunately, in a state of war, we should be in the difficulties which we experienced in the late war. There may be some difficulty
937VISCOUNT PEEL
: I am sorry that the noble Viscount does not think that he can accept the Amendment, even in a modified form. I appreciate the distinction between the objects which are used in college and University laboratories, and those used in works laboratories. I should like to see the latter excepted, too, because I think the work done in works laboratories is so important. I appreciate the distinction, and t hat it would, of course, mean letting in, duty free, a large number of objects. Perhaps I might say that the difficulty which the noble Viscount. has in accepting this Amendment, even in modified form, and sending it to another place for concurrence, is in no sense clue to the terms of the Parliament Act, but is due to the extreme hurry with which we arc asked to finish the session. It is quite easy to send an Amendment down to another place on a Financial Bill under the Parliament Act. 'What you cannot do is, for longer than a month's time, to insist on its being, carried if it is not accepted. But if it is accepted, it could be inserted in the Bill at one. I am sorry the noble Viscount does not see his way to assist us at all over this. The larger payments which are to be made to the colleges and Universities as the only possible alternative are also becoming restricted by the general necessity for national economy.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: The Third Reading is to-night.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Very well, I do not move now.LORD EMMOTT
: Am I in order in moving Lord Emmott's Amendment? If so, I shall move it.LORD NUNBURNHOLME
: Iliad already put the question that Clauses 14 and 15 stand part.THE LORD CHAIRMAN
940: I dare say your Lordships will allow me to answer the noble Earl very briefly. I can console him on one point at once, and that is as regards street lighting. As I understand, these
940VISCOUNT PEEL
: I should like to ask the noble Lord whether as a pure matter of convenience it would be desirable to change the Amendment of Clause 2 relating to agriculture, which has been passed in the form which was proposed by my noble friend, Lord Bledisloo, and myself. That is to say, instead of it reading,"Articles for use in the practice of husbandry, agriculture, or the raising of stock," it might be put in this form: after the word"drink"insert"or agricultural instruments or fertilisers as used in agriculture.'' It is quite indifferent to me. but that seems rather a more suitable form.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I think it is hardly for me to say if the noble Marquess wants to send down an Amendment to another place.VISCOUNT PEEL
941: I must apologise to the House, but I inadvertently allowed the Lord Chairman to pass a rather important Amendment of mine in Clause 7(2)—-namely, page 8. line 1, after'' whose insert"financial," and leave out"materially." The point is this. The Advisory Committee are persons who are obviously intended to be quite impartial and disinterested persons. As the clause is framed now, you have to show that they are materially affected by any action which they may take, which obviously means that they are financially interested. Most of us think the word"materially"is very vague indeed. It is very hard for anyone to say whether he is materially
941LORD BLEDISLOE
: I would suggest to noble friend that he should allow the words to remain as they are, for this reason. I think his words may be too restrictive"Whose interests are materially affected" means that they are really affected. For instance, if you insert the word"financial," various persons who would be quite competent, and who ought to appear on these panels, would be prevented from judging, merely because they might have a few shares in a particular industry. I suggest that the word"materially"is rather a. wiser and wider word, and less restrictive, and that the clause bad better remain as it is.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I do not know whether the noble. Viscount is fortified by legal authority, but I should have thought it would be very; difficult to interpret the words"materially affected.' When a man upon a Committee dealing with mast important subjects of this kind is asked to say whether his interests are materially affected or not, I should have thought it would be most difficult to give an answer. I think the word"materially"is a most vague word.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: And the word"financial"is extremely close and limiting.VISCOUNT PEEL
: The word"materially"may be a more difficult word to construe, hut it covers many more cases.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: This is rather a large subject to discuss in two or three minutes, but may I say one thing in reply to the noble Lord? A very distinguished authority in tin' House of Commons, a President of the Chamber of Shipping, said that. he was not the least afraid of this clause, because he did not think it would in any way affect Clue building of ships: If you once begin by omitting one industry you have to omit a great many others. May I point out what is often forgotten, that the interests of shipping will, of course, be looked after by this Committee. One of the things they have to consider is not merely whether employment is affected, but whether those who use these importations as materials will also be affected. Therefore, the interests of the shipping industry will be closely guarded.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I only want to say that the distinguished authority in the House of Commons does not represent in this matter the opinion of the Chamber of Shipping, of which, for the moment, he happens to be the head.LORD EMMOTT
: Nor does he represent the shipbuilding trade.LORD NUNBURNHOLME
: I beg to move that the Bill be read a third time.VISCOUNT PEEL
: None of these are quoted on the London Stock Exchange?THE EARL OF MAYO
: My noble friend is quite correct.LORD HLTON
: That was to make potato flour?THE EARL OF-MAYO
892: My Lords, I cannot help thinking that the proposal that the noble Earl is now making is quite unnecessarily cumbrous and is rather calculated to result in discord between master and man. I would also suggest that it is a little unfair to the ordinary labourer, who may be paid a good deal less in days to come than he now receives and whose Union, with the decreasing remuneration, would be less able to assist him, that litigation should be resorted to for this purpose. I agree with the noble Marquess on this side of the House that if we are not careful there will be a very serious deterrent latent in this clause so far as prospective employers are concerned when they have to deal with disabled men and partially disabled men or with men who are not worth a full day's or week's wages but are perfectly prepared to come into the employment of the farmer according to the limit of their strength and ability and to enter into a bargain which it is presumed they mean to carry out. I think we ought to discourage the entering into such bargains on the part of anyone with the intention at the outset to break that bargain if he has the chance.892LORD BLEDISLOE
882: My Lords, as I was responsible for the Amendment which resulted in the omission of these words, I should like to say that the main objection, which I am afraid is not fully realised in another place, is the extreme vagueness of this expression. We do not know what is meant by"conditions of employment." It may include such subjects as the condition of cottages, half-holidays, and all sorts of matters which may affect persons in other employment than that of farmers, who are, of course, represented on the conciliation committees. For my part I do not think it is a matter of great import-
882LORD BLEDISLOE
: My Lords, I beg to move that this House cloth agree with the Commons in the said Amendments.VISCOUNT PEEL
: I beg to move that your Lordships agree with the Commons in the said Amendment. The Commons propose to amend this Amendment by altering the date from November to December. This is a clause dealing with the power of the organisations to change their representation in the first instance, and it is considered in another place that rather a short time was allowed for the organisations to make consultations and take the necessary steps.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
" unless proceedings for such recovery shall have been commenced before the expiration of three months after the date when the workman left the employment.": My Lords, I beg to move that your Lordships disagree with the Commons in the Amendment to insert"latest." In place of that I move, in line 5, to leave out"wages became due"and insert"workman left the employment." I think I had better read the words as they will then run—
" unless proceedings for such recovery shall have been commenced before the expiration of three months after the date when the workman left the employment."THE EARL OF ANCASTER
891Line 6, leave out (" or in respect of a period not exceeding six weeks") and insert (" and a person shall not be entitled to recover under the subsection wages for more than three months, or for such longer period not exceeding one year as the Court in which proceedings are taken for the recovery of the wages shall consider just "); My Lords, there is evidently a very strong desire among your Lordships that there should be some limit to the amount of wages recoverable. I am afraid I cannot retract what I said originally. Undoubtedly, if the clause is left as your Lordships left it, with only six weeks' arrears recoverable, large numbers of men would not attempt to recover, if they were being paid 2s.; or 3s., or even 5s., below the wage voluntarily agreed to between employer and employed. Even if it were 5s. a week reduction, the amount that a man could recover in six weeks is only 30.s. And, personally, I think it would lead to many perfectly able-bodied men being employed at lower wages. Because, after all, this refers not only to the weaklings, but to the able-bodied men as well, and in the Government's opinion that would lead to the employment of many able-bodied men below the standard wage, and practically to contracting-out. If your Lordships think there should be some limit on the amount to he recovered I would move the following Amendment—
891Line 6, leave out (" or in respect of a period not exceeding six weeks") and insert (" and a person shall not be entitled to recover under the subsection wages for more than three months, or for such longer period not exceeding one year as the Court in which proceedings are taken for the recovery of the wages shall consider just ")THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: As your Lordships think that there should be a time limit, I ask leave to withdraw my original Motion and will move in its place the Amendment which I have already foreshadowed.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
887886: My Lords, at the end of the Amendment the Commons have moved to leave out the words"or in respect of a period not exceeding six weeks." They have left out those words, and I now move that your Lordships do not insist upon your Amendment. I think I should make it clear that your Lordships object in inserting those words was that a man should not claim back wages for a very long period, but I think your Lordships will perceive that the effect of this Amend-
887886THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: My Lords, I do not attach great importance to this Amendment one way or the other. The view was taken in another place that these words form part of what one might call the preamble of the clause. I think one noble Lord, in the course of our debates in Committee, stated that the only thing the labourer really could sue for was wages; but in another place it was thought that it should be set out in the preamble of the clause that these conciliation committees should take into consideration all the circumstances of the case, including such matters as cottages and allowances. I believe these things have been taken into consideration by wages boards in the past, and there is no doubt in my own mind that the conciliation committees will take them into account in the future. I really do not attach much importance to whether these words are put in or not. I honestly do not believe that it makes very much difference, and I hope your Lordships will agree with my Motion.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: if this is agreed to I will deal with the second part.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
: I move that your Lordships do not insist upon this Amendment.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: My Lords, I desire, on behalf of Lord Bledisloe, to ask HisLORD AMPTHILL
: My Lords, I think there should be some explanation as to what really"conditions of employment"cover. There is something beyond what the wages boards have done in the past. They have covered actually wages, valuation, allowances, hours and holidays, but there is something snore than that; otherwise, these words are meaningless. I find it difficult to see what other matters there are to come within the purview of these conciliation committees.LORD CLINTON
890: The two noble Marquesses have put the position of the House quite clearly, as it appeared to us on a former stage of the Bill—namely, that there was a very serious danger of the infirm, or under-average, workman not receiving employment if so serious a penalty as might be incurred is placed in this measure. It, is clear that, as we stand at present, all employer may- be mulcted, at any period within three months of the date at which the man leaves employment, of the whole of the difference between the wage which he pays by agreement and the wage which has been fixed by the committee. That will be a serious deterrent in the case of some of these poor and unfortunate men. I should like to ask the noble Earl in charge of the Bill whether this is not eorrect— that, when a workman who breaks his agreement sues his employer in a Court for the difference, the Court has no choice whatever in the matter; it must give the whole difference between the agreed wage and the wage which the committee has laid down for the whole period of time.890LORD CLINTON
" In our opinion this is another ease of a war measure, entered upon in a time of great emergency for the increased production of food, which owing to the termination of the war and other reasons his failed to realise expectations. Considering tie difficulty of the conditions we do not see that any grounds for censure exist."945" These shares are of nominal value only as the entire assets and liabilities of the companies are vested in the Board of Trade."944: My Lords, in reply to the noble Lord's first Question, I have to say that no income has been derived from the shares of the Commercial Bank of Siberia, purchased by His Majesty's Government. The purchase of these shares in February. 1918, was authorised as part of the scheme for supplying funds to General Alexieff in Southern Russia. The
" In our opinion this is another ease of a war measure, entered upon in a time of great emergency for the increased production of food, which owing to the termination of the war and other reasons his failed to realise expectations. Considering tie difficulty of the conditions we do not see that any grounds for censure exist."945" These shares are of nominal value only as the entire assets and liabilities of the companies are vested in the Board of Trade."944LORD HYLTON
: Yes.LORD HYLTON
883: My Lords, I am sorry my noble friend has decided to give way upon this Amendment, because I think that it brings in questions which ought not to be brought before the conciliation committees at all. I am particularly afraid of the question of cottages, because the interference with them has'been withdrawn by the noble Earl's predecessor on that bench, and I think it quite possible that conciliation committees might be dragged into that very difficult question through these words. But as the Government propose to agree with the action of another place, I think it will be perfectly legitimate for your Lordships to insist upon
883THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: It is only a question of order. If I might explain, there are two points raised. One is a question which the noble Earl has just dealt with, on the words"the latest wages became due"which is the Commons' form, and he proposed to amend it in a form to which we have no objection whatever. There is another question which arises as to the amount of arrears which shall be recoverable, and upon that there is likely to be a disagreement and some little discussion. If I may be allowed, I would suggest that the best plan would be to amend the Commons Amendment by striking out"latest wages"and putting in the words that the Government propose, and that will leave it open to us afterwards to deal with the other part of the Amendment.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
889888: There is no question here of your Lordships' House being opposed to collective bargaining. That is absolutely beside the point. Speaking for myself, I am entirely in favour of collective bargaining. Of course, the process of collective bargaining will work just as well under the form in which you sent the Bill to the Commons as under the form in which it has come back to us. There is an interval of six weeks allowed, and if, after that period, proper action is taken, then all the arrears can be recovered. That is what will happen in the case of collective bargaining. Every able-bodied labourer will be a member of a union, and he will have recourse to his union, and representations will be made within six weeks, and the mean employer will be compelled to pay the difference which he has tried to gain off the unfortunate labourer for that period.889888THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: That will not preclude the consideration of the question as to the actual number of weeks, afterwards?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
893: I think the proposal of the Government—rather irregularly made, may I say, as the noble Earl has made another Motion—is very cumbersome and difficult to estimate on the spur of the moment. I do not
893THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: The noble Earl has not dealt with the latter part.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
969968: My Lords, I have listened with great satisfaction to the last words of the noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack, because it seems to me that though we have had a good many startling proposals as regards the time allowed for deliberation during the last fortnight, I do not think we have had anything equal to this. This is, admittedly, a Bill which affects the home life of a very large number of people in this country. I am not hostile to this Bill, so far as I understand it. But. I do not understand it. The Bill was put in our hands this morning for the first time. One of its clauses contains a vast amount of legal language, which will obviously require a very great deal of thought and exposition.969968THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
970: My Lords, I can follow the protests made by the most rev. Primate against asking the House to commit itself with regard to this Bill. It is quite obvious that the provisions of Clause 4 are highly disputable, because, even though, in a general way, a great many of your Lordships might be disposed to favour the legitimation of children by a subsequent marriage, yet, as the noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack pointed out, there are a great number of by-products attaching to that process in relation t o property and different forms of succession, which must require close consideration. But I realize that it is possible
970THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I am very much obliged to the noble and learned Viscount for stating the possible modifications in the plans of the Government which events may easily bring about, and I will therefore move that the debate on this Bill be adjourned.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: In the discussion that we have had on another subject, the most rev. Primate talked about startling propositions with regard to procedure, and I think it does require justification to the House that we should read a second time a Bill which has only to-day been read a first time, and has not appeared on the Order Paper. I think, however, that there is justification in this case, and if your Lordships, after hearing what I have to say, would agree to take the Second Reading this afternoon, the Government would be prepared to assent to the proposition, made by Lord Killanin. This Bill, I am glad to say, is a very different kind of Bill from that which we have recently been discussing. In principle, I do not think there is any matter upon which there is likely to be a Second Reading dispute.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I feel very strongly that this is only a veil), small Bill, and I hope the House will agree to the Second Reading being taken to-day. Otherwise, we shall have to run through all its stages at once to-morrow. We in Ireland do not want that. We want the Amendment to be considered, and if it is put on the Paper the Government can consider it, and we can consider it, before, we meet, and the matter can then be arranged or disarranged as the case may be. I hope the House will agree to take the Second. Reading at once. A matter of £3,000,000 is to be divided between -the Irish railway companies, and we want the Bill to go through as speedily as possible. There is a time limit for this money, and we shou1d like the matter to be settled at once. I speak in this matter not only for myself hut, I am sure, for the directors of the railway companies and people interested in the Bill.THE EARL OF MAYO
: My Lords, I should hope that it is possible to conciliate all views. I am very reluctant to take the Second Reading of a Bill which, although it has been circulated, is not on the Paper. Lord Killanin's Amendment, I understand, is merely to leave out Clause 3, and is not a long technical Amendment.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: It does not affect the principle at all.THE EARL OF MAYO
974: That makes it all the more simple. If Lord Mayo and his friends can accept the proposal of Lord Midleton, that a general debate should take place on the Motion for adjournment, and that as early tomorrow as we can we should take the formal Second Reading stage, followed by the
974THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: My point is met, and I am much obliged to the noble Earl.LORD SUMNER
: The noble Earl has returned to a point which we have discussed once or twice before. I hope he will accept my assurance that the interests of passengers are already included.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I do not press the Amendment.THE EARL OF MAYO
953: I should have apologised to the noble Earl for having used so uncomplimentary an expression about his Amendment in fact. I had called it nonsense, but that is not what I said. What I said was that if his Amendment were inserted in the Bill it would make nonsense of the Bill. The Bill itself would then not make sense. No such criticism, however, would apply to this Amendment. I am not, however, prepared to accept the Amendment, and I hope I may be able to make it clear to the noble Earl why. This Bill is a Railways Bill: it deals only with railways. An Amendment was moved in Committee to make it apply also to a company which, although technically a railway company, was really a dock undertaking, and another Amendment was moved to make it apply to an actual dock undertaking. I said, on that
953THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I beg leave to withdraw the Amendment.THE EARL OF MAYO
: I am Very grateful to the noble Earl for the concession he has made. I think the procedure may need watching. There has been no time, owing to the hurry with which we have had to put this Bill through, to consult the Chairmen of Committees of the two Houses. It is just possible that this alteration which we are making may throw a considerable burden on them, and, if so, it may be necessary at some future date to devise some other safeguard.LORD EMMOTT
958957: My Lords, when we were in Committee we reached, very late one evening, an Amendment in the name of Lord Stuart of Wortley to omit this subsection. I then told the noble Lord that I could not accept his Amendment, and asked him to withdraw it. The noble Marquess Lord Crewe, however, supported the Amendment with a few words, and said he thought there was a good deal more to be said for it than I had admitted. An arrangement was come to, therefore, that the consideration of the matter should be left over to Report. I admit that the case for the retention or
958957THE EARL OF LYTTON
: After what has fallen from the noble Earl, I am very much inclined to press this Amendment upon the consideration of the House. I feel that members of your Lordships' House, and the public in general, would have no sort of suspicion as to the very high integrity of those who would be selected by such a method of selection as has been indicated. I trust, that being so, your Lordships will see fit to accept the Amendment which I have put down.THE EARL OF MALMESBURY
960959: My Lords, I have no doubt at all that some clause of this kind is very desirable, but as the matter has been left to the House at large. I think it is only right that I should ask leave to be allowed to express an opinion, because, having a strong opinion about it, I should hardly feel justified in not giving the House any assistance that I can. It seems to me clear that we should have a clause of some kind. As Lord Emmott pointed out, it is
960959LORD SUMNER
: My Lords, I hope your Lordships will consider, having regard to the safeguards which this Bill provides, that this clause is unnecessary. These permanent members are to be appointed on the joint recommendation of the Lord Chancellor, the President of the Board of Trade, and the Minister, who will take good care to select suitable men for the position. But if you are going to pass this subsection as it stands their choice will be very limited, and it seems to me in every way advisable that we should have the best men for this Tribunal, and the best men are always certain to be interested, as investors, in some of the securities that are named here. You might say it is to be a railway company in which stocks are not to be held, but as regards some of the other undertakings mentioned, it is extremely difficult to say where the interest in transit ceases. I do not know that any words could do what is required. Almost every undertaking is interested more or less in transit. Therefore, practically the holding of any industrial shares would debar a man from being elected a member of this Tribunal.LORD FARINGDON
: Does the noble Lord, Lord Emmott, regard his Amendment as having been dealt with by that decision?THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I think after the discussion that has taken place, I must do so.LORD EMMOTT
: I think the noble Lord has made out a case for the Amendment which is moved. I have no objection to it, on behalf of the Government. If your Lordships are willing to accept the Amendment I should agree to it.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Including the words that I mentioned?LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: You would move those afterwards.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I hope the words suggested by the noble Lord, Lord Muir Mackenzie, will be agreed to. I cannot claim to he anything like as expert in drafting as my noble friend opposite, but I think if those words were put in without the subsequent words he suggests, we should be cutting out the Parliamentary agents. I am not certain now that they are cut out. I should have thought it would be possible for parties to authorise a Parliamentary agent in writing as the clause now stands, but I agree that I like the clause better with my noble friend's two Amendments. I should not like it with only one.THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
963: With the leave of the House, perhaps I might say this, if it is going to influence the decision of your Lordships. I ant afraid I cannot accept the second Amendment which the noble Lord, Lord Muir Mackenzie, proposes
963THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I now beg to move the words that I have mentioned to the House already, that in line 9, after the word"solicitor," should be added"any Parliamentary agent on the register of either House of Parliament."LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: My Lords, as I indicated to the noble and learned Lord, I am afraid I cannot accept this Amendment. I would ask your Lordships to consider that this Tribunal is a practical Tribunal, which has to deal essentially with practical matters, and the Parliamentary agents are not in any way specially qualified to argue the matters with which this Tribunal will have to deal. There would, of course, be nothing to prevent the Tribunal giving audience to a Parliamentary agent, if they desire to do so, but the Amendment which the noble Lord asks your Lordships to accept would compel the Tribunal to listen to him if the parties selected a Parliamentary agent to plead their case. That I think is going further than we ought to go, and when I undertook to accept the Amendment of the noble Lord, I did not know he was going to bring up this second matter. I am afraid, on behalf of the Government, I could not accept it.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I have a manuscript Amendment on this clause. It is purely drafting.THE EARL OF LYTTON
964: I have a drafting Amendment in Clause 71. This will
964THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I have another drafting Amendment in Clause 72, page 61, line 5. I beg to move to leave out the words"twenty-six"and insert"twenty-eight."THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Your Lordships are perfectly entitled to authorise a debate on the adjournment on any subject, actual or prospective, and I understand that two Peers desire to address the House on this limited point, and I think probably that would be the best course to adopt. I understand there is to be an Irish debate to-morrow, but there is no Notice on the Order Paper about it.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
975: None has been handed in at the Table, so I do not know what form the debate is likely to take—whether it is to be a Question, or whether it is to be in the form of a Motion of censure or not. But we have a considerable number of things to deal with to-morrow—the Safeguarding of Industries Bill, the Irish discussion, and the observations of the Commons on the Lords Amendments to the Railways Bill; and your Lordships will remember that an undertaking was given that, except by consent, the Irish discussion should have priority
975THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: May I take it that your Lordships will meet at mid-day to-morrow?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
976: Perhaps I might make one suggestion to the noble Earl. He spoke of there being several questions which might take some little time to-morrow, and among them he mentioned the return of your Lordships' Amendments to the Safeguarding of Industries Bill. I understand that those are being considered as the first Order of the House of Commons to-day, and that the opinion of the House of Commons upon them could be returned probably in less than an hour from now. I would like to ask the noble Earl, as it is clear that the discussion of the House of Commons' decision cannot take very long, whether it would not be worth while to adjourn during pleasure now, and get that business over and done with before to-morrow, as I suppose that the Question which the noble Marquess (Lord Salisbury) is going to
976THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I hope Lord Crewe is well founded in his optimism that the debate in another place may only last an hour or so. For all I know, it may last two or three hours. But if your Lordships desire that we should adjourn during pleasure now. I am quite agreeable to do so. I should rather regret if it precluded the Irish Peers from speaking on the Irish Railways (Settlement of Claims) Bill. I suggest, therefore that I move the adjournment—and that that Motion should itself be adjourned subsequently—in order to let the Irish Peers speak. I move, therefore, that the House do now adjourn.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
985984: My Lords, I do not quite know what part I can take in this rather curious and, as the noble Earl has called it, informal discussion. I ventured a short time ago to suggest to your Lordships that it might be convenient to take the Second Reading discussion of this Bill to-day. The Bill, I still feel, raises no difference of opinion on matters of principle. I must point out to the noble Lord, Lord Killanin, that I did not speak of the Bill as an agreed Bill. He will remember that I specially referred to the point in regard to which he and those he represented did not agree with the clause of the Bill as it now stands. I did say, so far as the Second Reading was concerned, that I believed there was no one in this House, or outside this House, who wished to reject the Second Reading of the Bill. Therefore, for the purposes of Second Reading discussion, I thought I might claim that we were all agreed, and that it would be a convenience to take the Second Reading to-day, and go into Committee to-morrow, when the Amendment of the noble Lord would be on the Paper, and, therefore, Notice would be given to those who are not here to-day that the discussion will take place.985984THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I hope when the noble Earl deals with this question he will mention the other baronial railways that are affected by this clause, because that is a very important thing to have considered. I gather from the cause, and from what the noble Earl has said, that the subsidy goes on until the Home Rule Bill, and the Council mentioned in the Home Rule Bill comes into existence. Is that the case?THE EARL OF MAYO
: The clause will or crate until the Council of Ireland comes into existenceTHE EARL OF LYTTON
: I agree with Lord Killanin when lie says that it is all in the air and he has not the slightest idea when t hose circumstances are to come about. A great many things have happened since we passed that Bill. As far as I can make out from what the noble Earl has just said, he refuses to allow the deletion of this clause in any way, and therefore I really do not see how he is going to meet us with regard to this particular railway, because he cannot possibly make an exception of one baronial railway and not deal with the others. Therefore I consider that so far as it has gone, the answer of the noble Earl to the request of my noble friend Lord Killanin, and my noble friend Lord Shandon, and my noble friend Lord Midleton, is not, as far as we have heard it, satisfactory.THE EARL OF MAYO
: As regards procedure. I understand the Bill will appear on the Order Paper for its Second Reading. I think it was understood, in an informal discussion that took place, that, contrary to our usual practice, although the Bill has not been read a second time, the Amendment of the noble Lord. Lord Killanin, in will also be circulated. If that is so, it will be known to all those who receive their Papers, who are not in the House to-day, that the Bill will be taken. It is also understood that the Government, the Standing Orders having been suspended, will ask your Lordships to take all the stages of the Bill to-morrow, and that will also appear in the OFFICIAL REPORTS of these proceedings to-day, which will be circulated with to-morrow's Papers.THE EARL OF LITTON
: With regard to the special question raised by the noble Earl behind me, I thought that it was a. definite understanding that Lord Salisbury, on his Motion, should have precedence of ail others. It was for that reason that I suggested your Lordships continuing to sit this afternoon in order that the Safeguarding of Industries Bill, and the House of Commons' decision on our Amendments to that Bill, should be cleared away to-day. But if Lord Salisbury's Motion is not to be the first measure. I should be disposed to ask that at any rate the House of Commons' decision on the Safeguarding of Industries Bill should have at least an equal chance with the Amendment of my noble friend.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: There is no misunderstanding on that point. The undertaking with Lord Salisbury was that his Motion should be the first Order, subject to anything that was uncontroversial being put before his Motion, for mutual convenience. If the debate on Clause 3 to-morrow does not occupy more than five or ten minutes, Lord Salisbury, I imagine, would not object to its being taken in order that an Amendment, if any, should go down to the House of Commons. If, as is quite possible, the Irish Bill will only occupy a minute or two, it will be looked upon as a matter which could be taken in front of the Motion of the noble Marquess in order that if any Amendment is made in the Bill it could go to the other House.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: That is out of the question. If it is to take anything like that time, it cannot come first. I think half-an-hour would be the outside limit, but I hope, in view of the undertaking I have given to the noble Marquess, that we shall not be pressed to take the Bill if it occupies more than a quarter of an hour.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
989: My Lords, I think the noble Viscount is quite right in stating that where an objection is taken in another place to Amendment made here, on the ground of privilege, it has not been the habit of this House to insist upon its Amendments. Perhaps I might just say this—that in declaring that these Amendments constitute a breach of the privileges of the Commons that House is pursuing a course which it has pursued during the whole of Parliamentary history, and their action has no relation whatever to the Parliament Act. I think that may be taken as beyond any possibility of dispute. It is quite true that some Amendments which we send down do, technically, constitute a breach of privilege, or, at any rate, the one for which I was responsible would undoubtedly have increased to some extent—nobody could say to what extent —the charge on the public revenue; that is to say, that certain sums which would have been brought in by the proposed taxation would not have been brought in if my Amendment had been accepted. Consequently, the Amendment technically —as I was well aware all the time—constituted a breach of privilege.989THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
991agis: My Lords, I should not have said any word in this brief discussion, more especially as the noble Marquess and the noble Earl following hint have advised this House to take the only action which is, I think, wisely open to them in the circumstances of the case; but I must rise to say a word of deprecation of the, as it seems to me, most unusual course which the noble Earl has just adopted. He is entitled, of course, to have his own opinion of the action that has been taken by high authorities in another place, but I do think it is a novel and, in my judgment, a most undesirable precedent to set that a noble Earl of the authority and position of Lord Midleton should rise in this House and speak in the language that he did of the judgments that have been given by the highest officers of another House.991agisTHE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTOX)
: My Lords, at the risk of detaining your Lordships for a few moments longer, I would like to say one word from the point of view of the industry which has been affected by this decision of Mr. Speaker. Unfortunately, I was unable to be present last night, when Amendments were moved by my noble. friend opposite. Had I been present, I. should have voted for them. What I want to say is that I have not observed from those two members of the Front bench on this side who represent the Government—namely, time noble Viscount and the noble Marquess who leads the House— one word of sympathy for the industry which, in my opinion, has been adversely affected by the ruling of Mr. Speaker, which does not allow us to submit these proposals for the consideration of the House of Commons. I see from time OFFICIAL REPORT that my noble friend Lord Peel last night, on the Motion of the noble Marquess opposite, remonstrated with my noble friends on the other side of the House. Why, he asked, should the agricultural industry expect to get its plant below the cost price?LORD HARRIS
: Why, he asked, should it expect, more than any other industry, to be able to procure its plant below cost price in this country?LORD HARRIS
: Can the noble Marquess tell me to what date he proposes to move the adjournment of the House?THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: I will take the cost price in the foreign country. The noble Viscount has only to cast his mind back a very short time, and he will remember the disability under which agriculture was put during the war. It was compelled to take less than the world price for what it produced. At any rate, it is a cause for sympathy that you are forced by Mr. Speaker's ruling to withdraw the Amendments moved by the noble Marquess opposite. In this situation not one word of sympathy is expressed for the agricultural interest; not one word of sympathy was expressed last night, if I have read the journals aright. Why should not the agricultural industry have the advantage of world competition? You are not pretending, I suppose, that this is a key industry. Do you pretend that the manufacture of agricultural machinery is a key industry? The key industry is agriculture itself, not the machinery which the agricultural industry uses. You are refusing for that key industry the advantage of world competition. Let it go out to the agricultural industry what you failed to do last night. It is within your power to express some word of regret for the ruling of Mr. Speaker, and you do not do so. Mr. Speaker has done what he thought was right, but there is nothing to prevent you saying that you regret very much the effect of that opinion.LORD HARRIS
: What Notice was given?LORD HARRIS
: The particular clause I wish to delete only applies to two lines, and I mention it now because it may simplify our procedure to-morrow.LORD KILLANIN
: That depends on the noble Earl opposite.LORD KILLANIN
980979978977: My Lords, I do not know whether it is for the convenience of the House that I should make a short speech on a Bill that has not been given a Second Reading, and which has not been described to the House. It would he natural for me to get up after the Bill has been introduced and described, but I am anxious, if possible, that something should be done to remedy a grievance which I want to lay before the House, and, if the House will bear with me while I make my point to the Government, I shall be very glad to do so now.980979978977LORD KILLANIN
972: My Lords, before the House adjourns, I should like to ask, with the permission of the noble Earl in charge of business, what exactly is the position and prospects of the Irish Railway (Settlement of Claims) Bill. Last evening I tried to find out for myself, and so far as I could ascertain it had not reached this House, but I understand that this afternoon it has received a First Reading. A number of noble Lords from Ireland are interested in the matter, and would be glad if the Second Reading could be taken this afternoon, for the purpose of leaving an interval between the Second Reading and the Committee stage, so that criticisms offered on the Second Reading might be
972LORD KILLANIN
: My Lords, I beg to move that the Commons reason for disagreeing with the Lords Amendments be now considered.THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
988: My Lords, I beg to move that your Lordships do not insist upon your Amendments. I understand that when the House of Commons disagree on the ground of privilege it is the usual
988VISCOUNT PEEL
: From a foreign country—that makes all the difference.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Or any other industry.VISCOUNT PEEL
997: The usual Notice. I must say one word on the misrepresentation, by the noble Lord, of what I said. I never said that the agricultural industry in this country was only to depend on supplies in this country. What I said was that neither the agricultural industry nor any other industry could be permanently successful by relying, or could expect to rely, on the supply of goods coming from other countries at less than the cost of production in those particular countries, and that they would have far greater security if some opportunity at least were given to the industries in this country to produce machinery not at an unfair price, but at a price which would not be cut to pieces by this dumping competition from other countries. As to my not expressing one word of sympathy with the agricultural industry, I expressed myself at great length, I thought, in sympathy with that industry. But, after all, perhaps I need not show any indignation on that point. The noble Lord entered into a general disquisition on the attitude of Governments to agriculture. My small
997VISCOUNT PEEL
996: My Lords, I do not know whether, as I have been so unfairly attacked and so terribly misrepresented
996VISCOUNT PEEL
994malice prepenselocum towns993: My Lords, my recollection does not go back to Mr. Speaker Peel in the House of Commons, only to Mr. Speaker Gully, but in the absence of
994malice prepenselocum towns993LORD EMMOTT
967legitimatio per subsequens matrimonium.: My Lords, the promoters of this Bill in another place are to be congratulated on the fact that their sponsor in this House is a member for whom your Lordships entertain great respect, but not, I think, upon the zeal or warmth which he has brown into the presentation of this particular proposal. He has made it plain that he is dissatisfied with the drafting of what I may call the less important proposals of this Bill, but, nevertheless, he asks your Lordships to enter upon the consideration of this Bill at this stage of the session and to apply your minds to the controversial points involved in Clause 4. As far as the other proposals in the Bill are concerned—the issue of summons by justices, the amount to be paid by fathers under affiliation orders, the duration of orders made in proceedings instituted by Boards of Guardian—I am unaware of any objection in substance in any quarter, and having read through the various clauses I should have thought the drafting was neither better nor worse than that on which we daily feast.967legitimatio per subsequens matrimonium.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: Perhaps the noble Marquess will move that further consideration of this Bill be adjourned, because it is the fact—I cannot. let the observation of the noble Marquess pass without adding this— that the nature of the situation and of possible developments in Ireland may very easily, even at this moment, lead to a modification of what, up to this moment, has been the intention of the Government. I, myself, should support the noble Marquess in such a Motion.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: With your Lordships' permission, I might be allowed to say that this is not a proposal in which the Government is specially, interested itself, or in which we ask your Lordship; to do anything. But the other proposals contained in the Bill are undoubtedly useful, though perhaps not of the first importance. It is entirely for your Lordships to say but I should have thought that we might have given a Second Reading to the Bill on the clear understanding that it is given to the Bill as a whole, arid that no noble Lord is pledged to the approval of the principles contained in Clause 4. This would give us an opportunity of dropping Clause 4 and proceeding with the rest of the Bill, if that course were thought proper. I do not urge this, but it seems to me that it is not objectionable.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My speech would not have been delivered at all had it not been for the speech of the noble Earl.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
998: My Lords, I beg to give Notice that I shall put on the Paper this evening, and that there will appear on the Order Paper to-morrow morning, a Motion similar to that which I moved, and which was carried in your Lordships' House, on
998THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: No, I have not yet fixed a date. I have to consult with my friends on the matter, and it will be on the Paper to-morrow morning.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: My Lords, this Bill follows the normal custom where capital is required for the development of the telephones, and I beg to move that it be read a second time.LORD HYLTON
: I beg to move that this Bill be read a second time.LORD HYLTON
982981: My Lords, I was quite unaware of the particular question which the noble Lord has raised until the matter came up here. But speaking with a strong sense of what seems to me to be fair, I would press the Government, through the noble Earl in charge of the Bill, to consider very carefully the position of this little line. From a technical standpoint, this clause does not affect the vital principle of the Bill, but it is not quite fair. I am perfectly certain that in framing it there was no intention of doing anything unfair, but unfair it is, and I will show your Lordships in very few words how it is unfair. This mere trifle of a line is only about nine miles long. The ratepayers who are affected possibly do not extend over a very large area. That would seem to me to be the strongest reason in the world for having left the matter undealt with altogether.982981LORD SHANDON
966965: My Lords, I am in rather an awkward position with regard to this Bill, because it was a private Bill in the other House of Parliament and it would be natural that some private member should undertake it in this House, and those who are responsible for it in the other House asked me if I would submit it to your Lordships. But I had the satisfaction of seeing on the Paper this morning that my noble friend, Lord Onslow, would take charge of the Bill, and as there are undoubtedly great difficulties connected with it, I need scarcely say that I proceeded with my breakfast with more appetite than that with which I sat down. Still, in spite of that error having been made, I will do my best with the Bill as it stands.966965LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
973: My Lords, am not quite sure that the proposal of the noble Earl is not very likely to lead to greater inconvenience, because after all what is done on this Bill might be urged as a precedent for another Bill, and as the noble Lord suggested when he rose, it is a very strong order that a Bill which has never been printed, or brought before us in any way, should be given a Second Reading on the first day. Would it not be practicable, on the Motion for the adjournment of the House, for the noble Lord to raise the point which he desires to
973THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: My Lords, T do not rise to add anything to the argument which my, noble and learned friend bag addressed to the noble Earl, but I would ask the noble Earl, if I may, to consider this matter, and, if possible, remove this grievance. No one knows better than the noble Earl how many questions there are pending between the Imperial Government and the local authorities of various counties in Ireland, and it is highly undesirable to add what seems to me to be a legitimate grievance in the case of the two counties of Mayo and Galway to the other difficulties, especially when the whole amount at issue is one which will not materially affect the prosperity of the guaranteeing railway. It will, however, be felt by the ratepayers, who already are extremely heavily burdened, and it would be a serious attack on their privileges if these words were inserted. I do not think that anybody can doubt that the guaranteeing railway from the first regarded the expense of working the line as infinitesimal. They would not even go into it. The ratepayers have a right to regard the share which they had of gross takings as being a permanent share. This discussion is altogether informal, and I am certain my noble friend will do his best to meet the difficulties.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: I presume this Bill will be put down on the Paper before the discussion to be begun by Lord Salisbury to-morrow, because if any Amendment should be made it will certainly require to go back to the House of Commons, and it might be very inconvenient if it were done at a late hour.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
990: My Lords. as I was responsible for having asked your Lordships to insert one of the Amendments with which the Commons disagreed, I desire to take the opportunity of emphasising what has just fallen from the noble Marquess. I had the privilege of a seat in the House of Commons for twenty-six years. During that period I heard continually eases arise at the end of the session in which the Speaker of the day had to advise the House of Commons as to whether or not a breach of privilege had been committed. The wise decisions of Mr. Speaker Peel I commend to the noble Viscount who is in charge of this Bill. On many occasions he took the opportunity of impressing upon the members of the House of Commons that while certain Amendments made by the Lords might technically be a preach of privilege, they were in accordance with the spirit or the policy of the Bill, and he advised that privilege should not be pressed on such occasions. And on many such occasions—several of them I recollect—the Leader of the House took the advice, and the House of Commons followed it.990THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: If your Lordships will forgive me for rising again, may I say that if the Irish Bill is to take an hour or so —THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
992: Perhaps the noble Marquess will allow me to continue my observations. The noble Marquess leading the House has thought fit to reprove my noble friend, the Earl of Midleton, for a perfectly legitimate protest which he made on behalf of the conduct of this House. The noble Marquess seems to think that because the noble Earl, Lord Midleton, has risen to differ with the conduct of business in another place, and with a decision of the occupant of the great office of Speaker, he is speaking disrespectfully of the Speaker Nothing of the kind. We desire in your Lordships' House always to
992THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, the matter would have concluded just now had it not been for the speech of the noble Marquess the Leader of the House.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Of course, I have no objection to anything of that kind, but I take it that it would be nothing more than two or three minutes conversation.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: As regards the actual time of meeting of the House, that is a matter for your Lordships' convenience, and whatever view recommends itself to your Lordships, I should be glad to fall in with. I think I owe an explanation to the House why the terms of the Notice do not appear on the Order Paper. The reason is a. very simple one. Up till yesterday I was under the impression, as the noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack knows, that the Government were going to start the discussion, and therefore it was not possible for me to put a Notice on the Paper, but it was intimated to me yesterday that that would no longer be the case, and that it was for me to draft a suitable Notice. I need not say I have not been idle. The Notice is almost ready, and it will be handed in directly, but I hope your Lordships will forgive me for my apparent neglect of your Lordships' convenience. It was not my fault, in any case. I was obliged to wait for the Government decision. I may say that my Notice will not take the form of a Motion, but of a Question, which will give rise, I imagine, to a prolonged debate.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: There will be.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, as a mere matter of formal arrangement, I think it is quite unacceptable that we should take a Bill which is not on the Orders of the Day. It is a precedent unknown to your Lordships' house, and might lead to the very greatest abuse, because it means that business is to be taken of which Peers who are not present have no notice whatever. I think that is a thing which is quite unacceptable. To the other arrangement, although it is not very regular, if it be done with the leave of the House, I see no objection. Perhaps also the noble Earl will answer the Question about the hour of meeting to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Are these newspaper comments?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
The Marquess Curzon of Kedleston.10061005statusstatusstatus1004: Yes. Another paper finds it"impossible to see more than theoretical difference between Lloyd George and de Valera." It describes the settlement as"best conceivable in this imperfect universe "—possibly a slight exaggeration—and while it attacks the British Government for past outrages it considers this an"honest attempt to bring about peace, and that refusal of Sinn Fein would be short sighted and dishonest." I will not multiply these evidences. I may stun up in a word by saying that I believe, with scarcely an exception (and I hope that exception will not be emphasised or aggravated here), these proposals have been received with satisfaction, with encouragement and with hope, in every part of the civilised world.The Marquess Curzon of Kedleston.10061005statusstatusstatus1004THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
1010Lord Salisbury100910081007Lord Salisbury: My Lords, I have no opposition whatever to offer to the Motion of the noble Marquess. There is no man so disagreeable as the one who says:"I told you so," and therefore I do not want to dwell upon the fact that I ventured to prophesy that His Majesty's Government would not be able to prorogue at once, as they announced their firm and decided intention of doing. It. seemed evident to me that, in the Irish crisis, it was almost inconceivable that Parliament should rise altogether without the opportunity of its being summoned, apart from the formal opening of a new session. That is distinct, as the noble Marquess indicated, from the question whether some autumn session for business, which for all I know may yet be held, would not have been desirable in itself. I still hold the opinion that sonic of the measures which we have been considering, under hasty and uncomfortable conditions, would have had more reasonable treatment, and been subjected to useful discussion, if His Majesty's Government had consented to my Motion of August 2; but I need say nothing further about that.1010Lord Salisbury100910081007Lord SalisburyTHE MARQUESS OF CREWE
10231022damnosa hereditas1021régime10201019: My Lords, if there is going to be no debate on my. noble friend's Question this is not the moment that I feel it consistent with my duty to keep silent. I shall trouble your Lordships for a few moments only, but there are certain things that I should not consider myself honourable if I did not say from my place to-day. I wish, in the first place, to associate myself completely with all that has fallen from the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury. I think, whether your Lordships agree with what he has said or disagree, you will feel that it was a very notable utterance. I do
10231022damnosa hereditas1021régime10201019THE EARL OF SELBORNE
My Lords, may I intervene and say a word as to our arrangements for this afternoon? Several Peers desire to speak, and I am inclined to think that probably it would be most convenient if I now moved the adjournment of the debate on Lord Curzon's Motion, that we should then adjourn for three-quarters of an hour, but that, before we adjourn, we take two formal stages which I will mention in a moment, in order to send Messages to another place, and that upon meeting after the adjournment the debate on Lord Curzon's Motion be resumed. Is that convenient?THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD):
: I think so. I presume the noble Earl refers to the Irish Railway Bill.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: No; that will take some time. I referred to the Expiring Laws Continuance Bill, in which it is intended to insert a drafting Amendment, and to the Commons Amendment to the Lords Amendment to the Railways Bill.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
1024: We have been discussing Lord Salisbury's Question, but do I understand that he is not going to ask it? If the debate is going
1024THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
: I am in your Lordships' hands. Of course, the Motion of the Leader of the House took precedence over my Question, and it was therefore impossible for me formally to ask it. As soon as the Motion has been disposed of, I will put the Question, or if it is desired I will put it now, or perhaps your Lordships will take it that I put the Question in the course of my speech.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I think the House understood that Lord Salisbury put his Question when he made his statement on Lord Curzon's Motion. I beg to move that the debate be now adjourned.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I beg to move that the Commons Amendment be now considered.THE EARL OF LYTTON
1025: I can explain in two minutes the effect of the Amendment, which, although verbal and small, is not purely drafting. In Clause 3 of the Bill the Great Western Railway Company is made into a new company, and it is authorised to create new stock and to allocate that stock among the stockholders of the new company, but if the whole is allocated, there is nothing left for the constituent companies, and therefore, consequent upon accepting one of your Lordships' Amendments, the Commons propose to omit the word"the," and so power is given, instead of raising"the "
1025THE EARL OF LYTTON
1030102910281027: My Lords, I wish to trespass on your Lordships' time for two or three minutes only in order to make a couple of points which, if they have been referred to, have not, I think, been fully developed. I quite appreciate that whilst we are discussing the Motion of the noble Marquess who leads the House, we are taking the debate on the Question which is later on the Paper standing in the name of my noble friend, Lord Salisbury, and I notice at once that in the Question he asks whether the Government propose to proceed further with the negotiations which they have initiated. The noble Marquess, of course, had made his position perfectly plain before this afternoon, in the short conversation which took place last night, and I am sure he will not be surprised to hear that, in one way or another, I have had a number of communications from people living in the neighbourhood of my home in the South of Ireland as regards the noble Marquess's attitude—communications couched, of course, in perfectly respectful language, as my neighbours realise fully what the noble Marquess's position is.1030102910281027THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
103310321031: My Lords, as one of the few members of this House who protested. against the present Act for the Government of Ireland, I desire to say a few words. I and my family before me have been consistent advocates of a broad policy of national Government for Ireland, a position somewhat different to that occupied. by most of the noble Lords who have spoken. in this and other debates. I venture to congratulate His Majesty's Government on their courage in putting forward a proposal which, at all events, is a basis for negotiations and which, for the first time, lays before the Irish people a definite proposition for a settlement. I should advise my friends in Ireland to hesitate for a long time before they reject these proposals. There are, I think, a large number of people in that country who are thinking, no doubt, that some of these proposals will have to be modified, but no useful purpose would be served at the moment by discussing what those modifications should be.103310321031LORD HEMPHILL
1035status1034status: My Lords, I did not intend to say anything on this subject, but there are words at the end of the Question of the noble Marquess which cause me to make a few remarks. The noble Marquess asked if the Government proposed to proceed further with the negotiations. I hope they will. We have got the proposal now in black and white, and as plain as possible, and it is no good the noble Marquess, although his speech was really moderate, saying that the noble Marquess the Leader of the House is a master of generalities. There are no generalities in the Paper which I hold in my hand. There is the 1035status1034statusTHE EARL OF MAYO
: My Lords, I have a purely drafting Amendment to move, in the Schedule, page 8, lines 32 and 33, third column, to leave out"and twelve"and insert,"twelve, thirteen and fourteen."LORD HILTON
: Able to vote for the Government.THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
: My Lords, this Bill. affects a settlement of the claims of the Irish railway companies in respect of the period of Government control. It provides for the payment of £3,000,000 to these companies in three instalments at the dates stated in Clause 1. Clause 2 provides for the distribution of that sum of money and for a full discharge to the Government by the companies of its liabilities to them. Clause 3 places the worked lines, of which there are fifteen, in exactly the same position as they are dealt with in the English Bill, and continues the existing provisions relating to amounts payable to the owning companies, temporarily, until the Council of Ireland makes further provisions.THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
10621061: Your Lordships will remember that the main case for this Amendment was made in your Lordships' House yesterday afternoon by my noble friends, Lord Killanin and Lord Shandon. I was not then able to deal with the point in detail, but I assured Lord Midleton, who made an appeal to me, that I would very carefully consider the matter, and if I were not able to meet Lord Killanin, I should at least state the case of the Government to your Lordships. Though I am afraid I have not been able to meet my two noble friends, they will, I think, admit that I have given a good deal of time and consideration to the point which they have placed before me. I cannot help thinking that I really did go a long way to convince my two noble friends, in the conversation which took place between us yesterday, that there was more substance in the Government's case than they were aware of, and that less injustice was going to be done to those in whom they are interested than they thought. I am disposed to that view, because the main contention of the noble Lord who has just spoken is that it was very regrettable that those on whose behalf he is speaking—namely, the County Council of Galway—were not also present at that interview, and I took that really to mean that, had they been present, they would have been equally convinced of the justice of the case which, as they were not present, it is now my duty to submit for approval to your Lordships.10621061THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Does the noble Earl not consider it a loss to put a fixed charge upon them for the remainder of the contract?LORD KILLANIN
interim1063: I am coining to that point. I only wish to make it clear that the Government are not causing any loss to the Galway ratepayers. The Government, by this Bill, are temporarily
interim1063THE EARL OF LYTTON
1067: My Lords, I do not think you want me to enter into a long statement as to the policy of selling the Crown Lands. I. can only say, generally, that no fewer than 9,000 acres have been found on the Crown Lands for ex-Service men, and in addition to that the Government have done an enormous amount in placing ex-soldiers on the land. I cannot to-day deal with the whole matter as to whether it is a wise policy for any portion of the Crown estates to be sold. As a matter of fact, I. understand that some of these outstanding estates cost a. great deal of money and bring in very little revenue, and it is a debatable policy whether it is wise or not to hold all this land.1067THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: That is not quite an answer to the Question that is on the Paper. The Question is, How many acres of Crown Lands proposed to be sold are occupied by ex-Service men?THE MARQUESS OF LINCOLNSHIRE
: Referring to the Stagsden estate, I have had very little time in which to obtain the necessary information. I expect it will take a certain amount of research to get at the particulars. I thought the noble Marquess's Question referred only to this particular holding.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
1053" If you go as far as you can in the offer of self-government to Ireland, I believe there will be a response. And if that offer were refused, how much better would be your position in the eyes of the world and in the eyes of our own Colonies. You would not lose any prestige in so doing. You would stand before the world as having offered to Ireland the best terms that in your position you could give, and would lie able to say that they had been refused. You might have a discouraging response at first, but ultimately the leaven of such a proposal would work through Ireland, and I believe firmly that, though it may yet take time, it is in that direction, and I fear I must say in that direction only, that you are likely to obtain peace."10521051: My Lords, I have no intention, after all that has been said in the course of this debate, to trespass on your Lordships for more than a very few moments, but I make no apology for the few words I propose to say because I feel that, in a discussion of this gravity, my position gives me the right to state publicly my attitude towards the proposals of the Government and the negotiations into which they have entered, and to state openly that I rejoice that negotiations have been undertaken, and that I hope ultimately they may meet with a measure of success which will at last give poor suffering Ireland a chance of rejuvenation, a chance of sanity, and a chance of that which at the present moment is more urgent than anything—of obtaining peace, through which alone those objects can possibly be attained.1053" If you go as far as you can in the offer of self-government to Ireland, I believe there will be a response. And if that offer were refused, how much better would be your position in the eyes of the world and in the eyes of our own Colonies. You would not lose any prestige in so doing. You would stand before the world as having offered to Ireland the best terms that in your position you could give, and would lie able to say that they had been refused. You might have a discouraging response at first, but ultimately the leaven of such a proposal would work through Ireland, and I believe firmly that, though it may yet take time, it is in that direction, and I fear I must say in that direction only, that you are likely to obtain peace."10521051THE EARL OF DESART
: My Lords, I do not desire to detain you for more than a very few minutes while I explain the object of this Bill. It is introduced in consequence of a measure now, on the Statute Book—the Shops (Early Closing) Act (1920)—and it is very innocent in character, very brief, and perfectly innocuous in every way. It covers a matter which is for the convenience of the public, and I hope that your Lordships will not consider that I am making too heavy a demand upon you if I ask you to give the Bill not only a Second Reading but to pass it through all its stages. It is merely intended to permit the sale of chocolate, sweets and mineral waters until a later hour than their sale is now permitted by the existing law, and I believe it will be warmly welcomed by the public as getting rid of another of those restrictive regulations from which they have suffered.THE EARL OF MALMESBURY
: My Lords, this Bill was introduced into the House of Commons in pursuance of an arrangement effected in connection with. the Expiring Laws Continuance Bill. An attempt was made to give these facilities in that measure, but it was found that it was not a convenient course, and the Amendment was withdrawn, on an understanding that the Bill should take its place, and that the Government would do what it could to further the passage of that Bill into law during the present session. The Bill, as it comes before your Lordships' House, is a little extended in comparison with what it was when originally considered, but nevertheless the Government hope that your Lordships will pass the Bill, as it will meet a great desire among certain parts of the population for the extension of facilities to acquire sweets and similar articles. I therefore hope that your Lordships will agree to my noble friend's proposal.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
1049piece de resistance104810471046: Am I wrong in assuming that the noble Marquess selected those which he thought useful for his argumentative purpose? Then I imagine the House will not be interested in the others. These being disinterred, what do they come to? At the time I was defending myself—I believe with a good deal of sympathy from Lord Salisbury, though it was not as frequently expressed in debate as I should have desired, but I know with much sympathy—against accusations that the Government had been guilty of undue violence, through some of their agents or instruments. We are all well aware of the general atmosphere of more than one of those debates in which my noble and learned friend Lord Parmoor, or someone holding similar views, was the protagonist, and in those debates I have attempted to vindicate the Government against the attacks of those who said we were making excessive or unwise use of our coercive force.1049piece de resistance104810471046THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1044104310421041: If the noble Marquess will not be so anxious to enjoy in the retrospect what he regards as the stronger weapons in his arsenal, he will find that I am coming to Westminster. I do not share his view as to the strength of that argument, for reasons which I shall presently explain. I was attempting to point out, however, that the assumption that this dissatisfaction is universally, or even in a very large measure, shared by the inhabitants either of this Empire or of these islands, is grotesquely inconsistent with the known and established facts of the case. It has been already pointed out by Lord Curzon that in the political recollection of us all no single step has been taken on a much vexed public question by any Government with such an overwhelming measure of public support, if, and so far as, you attach the slightest importance to that which the Press says, if in particular you attach the slightest importance to what those sections of the
1044104310421041THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1050: Nowhere does that statement excite more enthusiasm than in the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury. During that time we have fairly and frankly indicated to Parliament what our difficulties have been. So far as I am aware, we have suppresed nothing during those three years, except the terms of this offer to Mr. de Valera. Those were suppressed at his express desire, and in consequence of his opinion that the purpose of the negotiations would be best served. by the suppression of the terms until the period when they were to be laid before the Dail Eireann. No one who thinks we ought to have undertaken the negotiations will suppose that, having undertaken them, we should have insisted on the publication of them in circumstances which the other negotiator declared to be disastrous for our purpose and for what we understood to be his purpose. With that exception we have taken this House completely into our confidence for three years. In the whole course of those three years we. have invited suggestion and help from any noble Lord to whom suggestion or possible help occurred. Many in this House have, from time to time, given great help. Many have made suggestions which have been adopted by the Executive. Many have made suggestions which have been most carefully considered. But during the whole of those three years during which the noble Marquess constituted himself a bitter and almost contemptuous censor of that which we have done and that which we have left undone, I do not recall one helpful suggestion made by him in the course of those repeated Irish debates.1050THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1045: The statement of the noble Earl greatly reassures me. I misunderstood. The graver case of inconsistency remains. We may have been right or we may have been wrong in all those early stages, but, believe me, we were never inconsistent. I have been the most unwilling mouthpiece, now for nearly three years, in Irish debates in this House, and whenever Lord Salisbury,
1045THE LORD CHANCELLOR
1040: My Lords, the debate has now ranged over a variety of topics, and it has been pursued. I admit readily, without any of the mis-chiefs which the Government had anticipated from a discussion taken at this moment. That circumstance is largely due, it should be plainly said, to the moderation with which Lord Salisbury indicated a point of view which was entirely out of sympathy with the past and present policy of the Government.1040THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be given a Second Reading. It is a purely Departmental Bill.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
a: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be read 2aLORD HYLTON
: My Lords, I beg to move that this Bill be read a second time.LORD HYLTON
: I beg to move that this Bill be read a second time.LORD HYLTON
10571056fait accompli" In accordance with these principles, the British Government propose that the conditions of settlement between Great Britain and Ireland shall be embodied in the form of a Treaty, to which effect shall in due course be given by the British and Irish Parliaments."10551054: My Lords, I should not trouble your Lordships at this time of the afternoon with ally observations if it had not been for something that was said by the noble and learned Viscount on the Woolsack, to the effect that those who do not, at some stage in this matter, by their voices as well as by their presence, indicate some support of the noble Marquess, should be counted as belonging to the body which he suggested to consist of the great majority of your Lordships who in all respects approve of the course which the Government have taken. In order that there should be no misapprehension, I think it right to say that my silence hitherto upon this subject must not be taken as representing anything more than this; that until we knew what the terms
10571056fait accompli" In accordance with these principles, the British Government propose that the conditions of settlement between Great Britain and Ireland shall be embodied in the form of a Treaty, to which effect shall in due course be given by the British and Irish Parliaments."10551054LORD SUMNER
10371036: My Lords, I would much sooner have abstained from speaking at this critical moment on this subject, but those with whom I am associated have a certain responsibility for the fact that the Government have made overtures at this moment. Although that responsibility is a limited one, I should not like the speech of my noble friend behind me to go as containing the whole view which is taken, by many members on this side of the House, of the present negotiations. I not only am not going to attempt—in fact, I should be quite incapable of doing so— to account for the numerous changes of policy on the part of the Government to which my noble friend has alluded. But I. would look at the position at the point at which we have now arrived. Easy as it would be to trace consecutive or nonconsecutive action on the part of this country for some years past, we have tried to induce your Lordships for the last year to recognise the facts as they are—that Home Rule, however much you may not have desired it, has become a certainty. But the amount of Home Rule, the power that we offered to the new Parliaments in Ireland was, as we endeavoured to show nine months ago, insufficient and absolutely useless as a means of terminating the disorder and unrest with which Ireland was racked.10371036THE EARL OF MIDLETON
10391038: That is the way I intended to state it. One of the greatest difficulties the Government will find is that the giving of fiscal power to the North alone and the South alone, will undoubtedly tend to much further trouble and difficulty. One of the matters we would gladly have. settled is the question of the means by which the North and South of Ireland could be combined in order to use this power, which cannot properly be given to one alone.10391038THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: In Westminster, for example?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Oh no; there are lots more.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
:Hear, hear.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: What I said was that four different Customs systems within the area now known as the Union of South Africa were considered to constitute such a dangerous state of affairs, and pointed so clearly to future civil war, that statesmen of all Parties agreed to the Union in order to have one Customs.TEE EARL OF SELBORNE
5432: My Lords, it will probably be for the convenience of your Lordships House that I should make a brief statement about the course of business. When we separated at the end of August a purely arbitrary date was fixed in the middle of October at which the adjournment should end in case a resumption of our business was required because of the condition of public affairs. At that time, as your Lordships will remember, it was contemplated that the subject which might bring us again together in the autumn would be the condition of Ireland, and it may well be that before the year is ended, or at any rate not long afterwards, your Lordships may be discussing that matter.5432THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIR.S (THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEPLESTON)
1098: My Lords, I will reply to the questions that have been put to me. First of all, as regards the discussion upon the state of India, I can well understand that there will be many members of your Lordships' House, possessing, as so many of you do, great and authoritative first-hand knowledge of India, who would wish to have information upon the matter, and personally I see no objection to putting clown a Question or Motion on the subject for the date mentioned by the noble Marquess—namely, this day week; but I should like, before giving a pledge upon the matter, to be in a position to consult the Secretary of State, as the suggestion comes to me at the moment with novelty.1098THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: My Lords, if no noble Lord has any Question to raise I would move that your Lordships House do adjourn, except for judicial busbies, till Tuesday next.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: My Lords, before the noble Marquess replies to the questions that have been put to him there is one question that I would like to ask him about the legislation of which he has spoken. As I gather, there are four Bills which the Government propose to present to Parliament. They will have to be introduced in the other House—so I understood from him —and in that case the discussion here will have to take place on those Bills when they come up to us, and it may not be easy to conduct the discussion on one unless the others have proceeded considerably further. That being so, the week of which he spoke seems to me to be a somewhat narrow estimate of the time required to elapse between their introduction in the other House and the arrival of the Bills in this House. It is possible the noble Marquess meant that there might be some general discussion of another kind, but I rather gathered that his intention was to recommend to the House that the discussion should take place on the Bills themselves. If so, I do not at present see that we have any prospect of getting them here in a full and satisfactory form by the end of the week.VISCOUNT HALDANE
7: My Lords, I desire to say nothing upon the subjects which were referred to by the noble Marquess, and I wish to say a few words only upon one which was most notably omitted. I refer to Ireland, and I wish to know if the noble Marquess can assure us that., at the earliest possible moment, information will be laid before this House as to the progress and the prospect of the negotiations that are now taking place with regard to the future government of Ireland. Uninformed discussion upon such a matter can only be productive of mischief, and it may be that the noble Marquess will think that premature disclosure might have the same effect. I am sure, however, that he will bear in mind that in this House there are many men who, although they look at this question from different points of view, are all most deeply concerned in the issue of these events, and I at least think that whatever information can be bestowed should be given to us, and that it ought not to be permitted to leak, through authorised and unauthorised channels,
7LORD BUCKMASTER
6: MY Lords, I am certain that all of us will reecho the words of the noble Marquess in respect of the Washington Conference. We all view its assembly with the greatest interest and satisfaction, and we nil have an earnest hope that it may lead to fruitful results. I rise principally to say one word upon business. The noble Marquess has been good enough to tell us that he does not think any business with reference to unemployment will reach your Lordships' House until, at the earliest, the middle of next week. I understand that the Bills are to be introduced in another place tomorrow. I should like to ask the noble Marquess whether the form of the Bills will leave it open to this House to make a useful contribution to their framing?6THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
26252423: My Lords, I
26252423THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
: Hear, hear.NOBLE LORDS
éclat: Wherever he has gone he has hitherto been the herald of good understanding and good will, and a harbinger of peace. In India his wonderful and winning personality, his record and his quite uncommon power of speech, wholly apart from his illustrious rank and position, will, I am sure, make a most definite and desirable impression, not only upon the Princes but upon the masses of India. Of course, the question of whether he should go or not is one which has been very seriously considered, and the decision which has been taken that the tour should be proceeded with is one that has been arrived at upon the united advice of the Viceroy and his colleagues. They are prepared to guarantee that every conceivable precaution will be taken, and that nothing will be left to chance.éclatTHE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
27: My Lords, I do not rise to take part in the Indian part of this very important discussion, but, as my noble friend Lord Sydenham has been in communication with me in reference to the occasion for taking this debate, I feel perhaps it would
27THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: No; the noble Lord is not correct. When I communicated with my noble friend I did not suggest that he should take his Notice off the Paper; I suggested that he should leave it on the Paper, and that it should be taken at such time in the present session of Parliament—which, after all, is going to be short—as I should inform him would be in the public interest.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: It was clearly inconsistent with the whole of the tenour of the argument which the noble Marquess has just delivered to the House, for lie explained that he thought that in his judgment, in the critical condition of things in India, a debate ought not to take place. What difference would two or three days make if that were so?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I must be allowed to point out—THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: Perhaps the noble Marquess will allow me to make my own speech.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
28: Perhaps the noble Marquess will allow me to answer his most unjust remark. The point I made was that, in the first place, at the present
28THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: The noble Marquess knows as well as I do that there is nobody in your Lordships' House who does not view with immense sympathy the Prince of Wales's visit to India. We all hope that it may fulfil all expectations, and we are deeply grateful to His Royal Highness for the public service which on repeated occasions he has given to his country.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: Hear, hear.NOBLE LORDS
29: It is clear that the Prince of Wales's journey to India is going to last many months; so what real value is there in the argument of the noble Marquess that a postponement of this debate for three or four days would make any difference whatever? No! The whole argument of the noble Marquess—and it was a very legitimate and proper one for him to put forward—was that a debate about the condition of India at the present time would be inopportune, partly with reference to the visit of His Royal Highness and partly with reference to the general condition of India. That brings us to the point as to whether Parliament ought to forego the right of criticism in respect of India at the present moment, and the particular question whether it is to-day, or to-morrow, or two or three days hence, is not relevant to the argument of the noble Marquess to-day. The whole point of his contention was that we must be silent in respect to the condition of India. I am afraid we cannot take that view. We think that the condition of things in India is so grave that a discussion in Parliament must take place. That is what we mean when we speak of a democratic form of government, and we venture to think that such a discussion must take place. Had it been a question of putting the debate off until, let us say, this day week, that would have been a matter for consideration, but the view we take is that the debate ought to take place.29THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
30: My Lords, I had no intention of taking any part in what the noble Marquess, Lord Salisbury, calls the Indian part of this debate because, like the noble Marquess who leads the House, I am sorry that it is taking place to-day. Before Parliament met, my noble friend, Lord Pentland, wrote to me and asked me whether I thought it likely that the Government would be prepared to engage in a debate especially with reference to the condition of affairs in Southern India, and whether I thought they would be willing to make some statement on the subject at the opening of the session. I advised my noble friend to write to the Under-Secretary for India in order to find out whether His Majesty's Government desired to make a statement at present, and I implied to my noble friend, as I think he will agree, that I hoped he would be guided in this matter so far as possible by the views of the India Office. My noble friend did write and received a reply from the noble Earl, Lord Lytton, very much in the sense of what the noble Marquess the Leader of the House has just said. In those circumstances I should not have advised my noble friend to press for a statement at present. and I confess I am sorry
30THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
44Raj4342lathis414039"Do not interfere too hastily or too violently with an agitation of this kind. Let it kill itself, as in time it does."régime38" The apology tendered by the Supreme Government for the Punjab incidents in the Imperial Legislative Assembly."37" Disturbing deliberately the placid pathetic contentment of the masses for their own highest good,"36Raj353433" My answer to that Question is an unqualified affirmative. His Majesty's Government do certainly accept the principles advocated both by the Government of India and the Joint Select Committee that members of the Public Service in India should, in certain circumstances, be permitted to retire on proportionate pension."3231 had given notice to call attention to the present state of affairs
44Raj4342lathis414039"Do not interfere too hastily or too violently with an agitation of this kind. Let it kill itself, as in time it does."régime38" The apology tendered by the Supreme Government for the Punjab incidents in the Imperial Legislative Assembly."37" Disturbing deliberately the placid pathetic contentment of the masses for their own highest good,"36Raj353433" My answer to that Question is an unqualified affirmative. His Majesty's Government do certainly accept the principles advocated both by the Government of India and the Joint Select Committee that members of the Public Service in India should, in certain circumstances, be permitted to retire on proportionate pension."3231LORD AMPTHILL
4645: My Lords, I do not propose to follow the noble Lord into the important questions which he has raised, but I must confess I think this House is not open to the reproach which the Leader of the House addressed to us, or the suggestion that it is at all likely that an unwise or inopportune discussion would be countenanced in this House. I do not know any body of men on whom for the last seven years the Government have drawn so generously for reticence and reserve. And I will go further and say that on many occasions, some of which I could mention, the effect of that reticence on our part has been that action has been taken against which it was well known we should have protested, and with regard to which we have found ourselves afterwards quite unable to make any impression upon the Government or upon events. It is for that reason that I suggest to the noble Marquess that there is a reciprocal liability upon him and upon the Government for the demand which they have made upon your Lordships to-night.4645THE EARL OF M1DLETON
Reuter57Kisan Sabhacaveat56chapatti55The Times545352515049versus4847: My Lords, you will hardly be surprised that I should wish to address you to-night on this very important question. It is only sonic six months ago that I gave up the responsibility of the government of India. I do not disclaim any responsibility for the acts which. I did during my tenure of office, and I welcome this opportunity of putting before your Lordships some of the considerations which weighed with me in the conduct of affairs during my term of office.Reuter57Kisan Sabhacaveat56chapatti55The Times545352515049versus4847VISCOUNT CHELMSFORD
60"Eventually the Government suggested that the wishes of the House would be met if an undertaking were given that the Viceroy would be requested to convey to the Secretary of State the view of the Assembly that the progress made by India on the path of responsible government warrants the re-examination and the revision of the Constitution at an earlier date than 1929."59"acknowledged the success that had been achieved by the Councils and the assistance they rendered the Government, but pointed out that the despatch of August 20 and the Government of India Act laid down that the grant of a further measure of political advance must be decided by
59"The Legislative Assembly devoted the whole of to-day to a discussion of the resolution moved by Mr. Mozoomdar (non-official, Bengal) in favour of the establishment of complete provincial autonomy, an early extension of responsibility in the Central Government, and the conferment of full Dominion self-government on India from the beginning of the fourth term of the Legislative Assembly in 1929."Morning Post58: My Lords, I should like to make two observations in respect of the very interesting speech to which we have just listened. The first is, how great is the gain to the House in the return of my noble friend, and the second, that I think his speech alone has been a complete justification of this debate, and in itself an answer to the objection taken by the Government. My reason for rising before fly noble. friend, the Under-Secretary, is to put to him one specific point, and one point alone. Great controversies have raged around the whole policy with which my noble friend, Lord Chelmsford, is identified, and which is now embodied in the Indian Constitution and the Government of India Act. We had, the echoes of those controversies through many months in the Committee room of this House, when I presided over the Joint Select Committee of the two Houses of Parliament which dealt with the Bill which became an Act. But there was one aspect of the controversy upon which I thought there was complete agreement, unanimous assent, and that was that there should be no question of a change in the Constitution now adopted for ten years.60"Eventually the Government suggested that the wishes of the House would be met if an undertaking were given that the Viceroy would be requested to convey to the Secretary of State the view of the Assembly that the progress made by India on the path of responsible government warrants the re-examination and the revision of the Constitution at an earlier date than 1929."59"acknowledged the success that had been achieved by the Councils and the assistance they rendered the Government, but pointed out that the despatch of August 20 and the Government of India Act laid down that the grant of a further measure of political advance must be decided by
59"The Legislative Assembly devoted the whole of to-day to a discussion of the resolution moved by Mr. Mozoomdar (non-official, Bengal) in favour of the establishment of complete provincial autonomy, an early extension of responsibility in the Central Government, and the conferment of full Dominion self-government on India from the beginning of the fourth term of the Legislative Assembly in 1929."Morning Post58THE EARL OF SELBORNE
6261: My Lords, at this hour I want to put two points only to the noble Earl before he replies. Lord Midleton asked that he should give us certain assurances, if he could. May I add to those assurances that some consolation be given to us with regard to the Calcutta case of Messrs. Kernani and Bannerjee. The discussion has been so discursive, and at the same time so informing, that I almost hesitate to go back "to one point which may seem to be a small one. At the same time, it is one of those practical matters as to which nobody can really feel any doubt. Whether he may be on the side of the reforms or against them, whether he may be content to pay the price of a very uncomfortable time in the process of winning the political classes to co-operate with the British Government or not, one thing is quite clear—namely, that a repetition of such an incident as the Kernani and Bannerjee case, as I understand it, must undermine the authority of the Government and must discredit British I rule in India.6261LORD SUMNER
malaisenotmalaise"that for the great majority of us the conditions at present arc not intolerable, and we have no intention of exchanging our work for idleness at home. But the gnawing anxiety which we suffer in feeling that a time may come when we shall either have to resign and starve or remain and serve under impossible conditions is the whole explanation of the malaisenotmalaisenow66"For the last two years the Service as a whole has been asking in vain for proportionate pensions. If the Government do not understand the depth
now66régimerégimede cachet65lettre6463: My Lords, may I interpose for a very few moments not to weary your Lordships with questions of detail, but to invite your attention to a wider aspect of the case, which is sometimes overlooked, and certainly was not emphasised in the speeches of the two noble Lords who initiated this discussion? Whatever else we may disagree upon we are certainly all agreed that the rimes in India
malaisenotmalaise"that for the great majority of us the conditions at present arc not intolerable, and we have no intention of exchanging our work for idleness at home. But the gnawing anxiety which we suffer in feeling that a time may come when we shall either have to resign and starve or remain and serve under impossible conditions is the whole explanation of the malaisenotmalaisenow66"For the last two years the Service as a whole has been asking in vain for proportionate pensions. If the Government do not understand the depth
now66régimerégimede cachet65lettre6463LORD MESTON
7069ex parte6867: My Lords, after what has fallen from the noble Marquess who leads the House, I do not propose to say anything more about the wisdom in the public interest of holding this discussion to-day, except this. In asking for a postponement of the discussion the Government were in no way actuated by a desire to avoid criticism. There was no disposition on their part to refuse to this House full and. ample opportunity of discussing the whole aspect of the present situation in India. But we had more ground than I think the noble and learned Lord, Lord Sumner, seems to appreciate in making this request. For
7069ex parte6867THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
: The noble Earl did not make his speech.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
71: If the noble Earl intended to make a speech and refrained, and if this speech would have been of an embarrassing character, I can only express my gratitude to him. Not in any spirit of reciprocity but because it is perfectly easy for me to do so, I will at once give the noble Earl the assurance he sought. He asked that the subject of the Civil Service should receive attention. I have already dealt with that matter and need say nothing further about it.71THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Can you give us any idea when it is likely to be received?THE EARL OF SELBORNE
: The Committee of Imperial Defence has just begun its sittings. It is considering the matter at the present moment, but I am afraid I cannot say how long its discussion is likely to take.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Will the House have an opportunity of discussing it?LORD SYDENHAM
72: I am not in a position to give any pledge on the matter. The Committee has not made its Report; the Cabinet has not considered it; and it is premature at this stage to carry the matter any further.72THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I beg the noble Earl's pardon I went back to 1916; the proclamation of Indian Home Rule by Mrs. Besant in 1916.LORD SYDENHAM
: I beg the noble Lord's pardon, but neither the Government of India nor the Secretary of State can be made responsible for that proclamation.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: No.LORD SYDENHAM
757473: I am speaking about the responsibility of the Government, and I do not think I have misquoted the noble Earl when I say that, so far as the responsibility of the Government is concerned, he considers the first mischievous step was taken in the pronouncement of August, 1917. From that, he said, followed immediately the wicked Act of 1919, an Act to which he is constantly referring in publications in the Press as a disastrous Act. He says that as a result of that Act we have set up a number of political assemblies in which nobody takes any interest in India, and he went on to explain that, because of the little interest taken, only some one-fifth or one-fourth of the electors could be persuaded to come to the polls. That is but one instance of the readiness
757473THE EARL OF LYTTON
: Dismay at the attitude of the Government of India.THE EARL OF SELBORNE
79787776: At the attitude of the Government of India in that debate. The outcome of that debate was a suggestion by the Government of India that they should forward to the Secretary of State the wishes of the Legislative Assembly that it might not be necessary to wait for ten years before considering a further extension. The noble Earl is quite right. It was, I think, clearly the intention of the Joint Select Committee that there should be two sessions of the new Parliament, one complete Parliament of four years, then a General Election, and that before the end of the second Parliament, a Statutory Commission should be set up, and that that commission should report as to its working. We should, therefore, have a report of the Commission before the end of eight years, and that examination will take place after six or seven years' experience of the working of the new Constitution.79787776THE EARL OF LYTTON
80: My Lords, I have still to make my Motion for Papers. The
80LORD AMPTHILL
: I am willing to accept this Motion on the understanding that it is left to the discretion. of the Government as to what Papers they will lay on the Table. If, by a Motion for Papers, is meant an undertaking on behalf of the Government to lay before Parliament all the Papers referred to by the noble Lord I could not, of course, accept his Motion. I have informed him that on two of his points I hope to lay Papers very shortly, but that on some of the other points I am unable to comply with his wishes. There has been no Notice on the Paper, and there is not now any Motion on the Paper for specific Papers. I am informed by the learned Clerk at the Table that it is necessary, according to the Rules of the House, to move for specific Papers, and it is not possible, therefore, for the noble Lord to make a general Motion for Papers. If he will withdraw his Motion, I have given him an assurance that on certain matters I am prepared to lay Papers. If the noble Lord wishes to put down another Motion for laying the Papers to which he has referred I shall not be able to accept that.THE EARL OF LYTTON
: I am content with an assurance that such Papers as can be laid will be laid. It was only to conform to the Rules of the House that I specified the Papers I wanted. In the circumstances, I withdraw my Motion.LORD AMPTHILL
92en blocen bloc91: My Lords, before the noble Lord replies on behalf
92en blocen bloc91THE EARL OF CARRICK
9998"We record at the outset that we should in no ease contemplate the continuance of such assistance (direct assistance) as part of the permanent policy of the State. We have dealt with it solely as a matter for consideration during the present critical years when the fortunes of British Civil Aviation hang in the balance."9796personnel959493: My Lords, we have had a most interesting speech reviewing commercial aviation in its widest aspects from the noble Lord, Lord Montagu of Beaulieu, who has been associated so long with every form of transport, and a number of questions on details of the subsidy scheme. The noble Lord gave certain figures rather with reference, so far as I could gather, to the volume of flying in countries generally. I may be able to supplement some of those figures with a definite account of the complete work done under the first part of the subsidy scheme.9998"We record at the outset that we should in no ease contemplate the continuance of such assistance (direct assistance) as part of the permanent policy of the State. We have dealt with it solely as a matter for consideration during the present critical years when the fortunes of British Civil Aviation hang in the balance."9796personnel959493THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR AIR (LORD GORELL)
101: My Lords, the Question of the noble Lord raises the whole subject of an independent fighting Air Force. That Question was discussed in this House about two years ago. I am not aware that it has been discussed since, but at that time, at any rate, the Government informed us that they were fully satisfied that this was the most efficient means of carrying on the Service for fighting purposes. There are, of course. many who disagree with that view, and, apart from the question of economy, I should like to ask the noble Lord opposite if he can inform us whether the Government are completely satisfied that this is still the case, in view of the experience of the last two years. There must have been a considerable field for experience in India, Mesopotamia and other places, apart from the customary peace training, both by sea and by land, and they have therefore a certain amount of experience
101LORD VERNON
102: My Lords, I am sorry I was not present at the beginning of this debate, but I have been asked to say a few words to your Lordships, Hid especially to the Minister representing he Air Ministry, on the subject of airships. Many of us who watched the development of airships during the war, and responsible officers who conducted experiments with airships, still think that some of this money which has been voted by Parliament should be devoted to subsidising airships, in much the same way as fast merchant raisers were subsidised before the war,
102LORD NUNBURNIIOLME
103sub judice: My Lords, I was not anticipating that on this Question, at any rate, any question with regard to airships would arise, but I might perhaps dispose of that point by saying briefly that it may be remembered that the whole of the future of airships is at the present moment 103sub judiceLORD GORELL
: The noble Lord would be very surprised if he knew.LORD NEWTON
104: It is an interesting estimate, at any rate, and I wish to point out that by the wording of his Question on the Paper the noble Lord apparently contemplates that the Air Ministry should go back to the Army and the Navy. There is in it no provision whatever for many functions which the Air Ministry is at present carrying out. What, one may wonder, if that were ever to happen, would he the place of the Meteorological Office, which now covers the whole of the meteorological work of the United Kingdom. It is, I think, inevitable that both the Army and the Navy would require meteorological sections, and we should have three such offices, instead of one. The same thing applies, even more pointedly, to the Directorate of Research, which is the foundation stone upon which all flying must rest. The proposal also leaves entirely out of account the subject which we were discussing upon the previous Question—namely, the whole development of Civil Aviation, which has in the last two years meant a great deal of work in connection with International Conventions, which in no case could be relegated either to the Army or the Navy. That work, pre-
104LORD GORELL
: What is it?LORD NEWTON
106105plus: Thirty thousand officers and men—I think 27,000 men amid 3,000 officers. If we were to divide the various functions of the Air Ministry itself, I will admit at once that there would be a certain saving. It is very difficult to arrive at what it would be but there would be a definite saving in the higher civilian staff of the Air Ministry. That represents not a very large proportion of the cost of the administrative staff, and the total cost of the whole of the higher civilian staff is £57,000 106105plusLORD GORELL
: What I particularly asked was whether the naval or military officers are equally satisfied?LORD VERNON
110"The military mind always imagines that the next war will be on the same lines as the last. That has never been the ease and never will be. One of He great factors in the next war will obviously be aircraft. The potentialities of aircraft attack on a large scale are almost incalculable, but it is clear that such attack, owing to its crushing moral effect on a nation, may impress public opinion to the point of disarming the Governments and thus become decisive."109108107rile: I have not the same means of knowing the mental satisfaction or dissatisfaction of the other Services, but I shall come to that in a moment. I think there is no doubt that they do not look upon the air in at all the same light as those who have studied it. The figures for the estimates which I have given in some detail about the different Departments are all based upon the assumption that, if you did divide the present work of the Ministry into two component parts, its functions would still continue to be comparable with what it is doing to-day. I maintain that that assumption is utterly and wholly unfounded. It is based upon a view which I had thought almost obsolete—namely, that this new arm of the air has no greater 110"The military mind always imagines that the next war will be on the same lines as the last. That has never been the ease and never will be. One of He great factors in the next war will obviously be aircraft. The potentialities of aircraft attack on a large scale are almost incalculable, but it is clear that such attack, owing to its crushing moral effect on a nation, may impress public opinion to the point of disarming the Governments and thus become decisive."109108107rileLORD GORELL
: My Lords, may I thank the noble Lord for what he has said? I entirely agree with the sentiments he has expressed, and may I say to the noble Lord who raised this Question that when he talks about the pressure of t he Press having established a separate: Ministry, I can tell him, from having been a member of the War Air Committee, that it was the inevitable pressure of circumstances, as the direct result of our inferiority in aircraft at the beginning of the war, which caused it to be established, and that the establishment of the Air Ministry led to our Air Forces at the end of the war being on the whole the finest, the most numerous, and the most efficient of all the Air Forces engaged in the war.LORD MONTAGU OF BEAULIEU
: My Lords, I move that your Lordships' House do adjourn, except for judicial business, till Tuesday next.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
858483: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord has been good enough to acquaint me with his intention of putting the question which he has just read to the House. The Government is certainly well aware, and I not less vividly than my colleagues, of the terms and effect of the Judgment in question. The noble and learned Lord quite properly addressed his Question to me as a Minister, and I would say in that capacity, and putting myself as far as I can in the position of the noble Lords who tried the case, that the matter is really not quite so technical as its presentation in legal language makes it appear, and if it interests your Lordships at all, before I answer the specific question contained in the interrogatory I could, I think, put the matter with reasonable simplicity.858483THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: My Lords, I beg to ask the Lord Chancellor a question of which I have given him private notice. It is, Whether the attention of the Government has been called to the decision of this House in the case of Sutters against Briggs relating to the payment of debts, and to the very serious inconvenience arising from the state of the law as disclosed in the decision, having regard to the many payments made in good faith and in the belief that payments by cheque were good?LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: On whose authority do you say that?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
121120: I was saying that I had found it when I was in Sweden the other clay, and I went on to say that I believed that those indemnity payments were probably responsible for a reduced output in this country of something like 20,000,000 tons a year, with, of course, the corresponding difficulties which arise at the present time, particularly in the export districts of South Wales. That, of course, is only one of the illustrations. Take another, which I think Lord Newton will probably have in his mind; I mean the waste that is going on at the present time, in the endless Commissions, which do nothing except obstruct practical reform work, and every penny of the cost of which is waste and must be accounted for before
121120LORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, I am sure that the noble and learned Lord is fully justified in quoting the opinions offered by the chairmen of the great joint-stock banks in this country. They are men of great standing and wide experience in the commercial world, and everything they say always receives the most respectful attention. But I cannot help thinking that Lord Parmoor rather over-weighted the tendency of their remarks. He seemed to assume that those gentlemen combined to argue that the unemployment difficulties in this country were due to the Continental position. I really cannot accept such a statement as that in so absolute a form. The Continental position is, of course, a contributory cause of our unemployment troubles, but that it should be assumed to be the sole cause is, in my opinion, a most dangerous and, indeed, a most mischievous doctrine.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: I never suggested, and no one would suggest, that it was the sole cause; I said it was a largely contributory cause.LORD PARMOOR
122: Yes, but there are other very grave causes as well. If it were not for that fact the ratio of unemployment in France and in Belgium, both of which depend upon the Continental system for their commercial existence, would be at any rate upon a parity with our own. I am afraid there is no doubt that the poverty of customers and of potential customers in Central Europe does exercise a grave effect on unemployment in this country, but there are other causes, and very grave causes, which equally contribute to that state of affairs.122THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I mentioned it; I could not give an estimate.LORD PARMOOR
: No; but the noble and learned Lord also ignored— what is a very material factor— tire restoration of railways and canals, of public utility works, of public buildings, of churches, of factories, which in themselves form a gigantic addition to the figure he has suggested. Moreover, he paid no attention whatever to the dead loss which has accrued to France during the last seven years in public revenue and in private income through the interception of all fruits of labour during the war, and of its practical annihilation, then and subsequently, in the devastated areas. I therefore feel that Lord Parmoor is underrating the cash loss suffered by the French Republic. I do not know why Lord Parmoor so deliberately and so constantly excluded Belgium.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I said "or elsewhere." I took France as the leading instance.LORD PARMOOR
: But Lord Parmoor said in terms more than once that France has the prior claim.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I think France has so much the greater claim that, although I put "or elsewhere" in my Question, I limited what I said to France.LORD PARMOOR
124123coeteris paribus: I remember he put in the words "or elsewhere," but if he refers to his speech to-morrow morning he will see that in the opening remarks of his speech he rather washed out those words. However, I take it from him that what he said with regard to France would 124123coeteris paribusTHE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: My Lords, I should not have intervened in this discussion but for one sentence which fell from my noble friend who has just spoken. In rebutting the arguments of the noble and learned Lord, Lord Parmoor, the noble Earl stated that if the facts were as he believed— that is to say, the facts relating to unemployment— the case in France would be parallel to the case here. Without professing to be a political economist, I submit that there is no parallel whatsoever. France is almost entirely a self-supporting country. France is not dependent upon foreign trade at all. The position in this country is entirely different and, so far as that goes, it is different not only from France but from any other country.LORD NEWTON
: From Belgium?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: It is not often that I hear anything from the noble and learned Lord opposite with which I agree, but upon this particular question I am to a certain extent in agreement with him, and I have risen mainly for the purpose of corroborating what he has stated in regard to Central Europe. Anybody who has the slightest acquaintance with the conditions in Central Europe— and I often wish that noble Lords who are responsible for the policy of this Government had opportunities of visiting these countries— can come to one conclusion only. It is a painful and humiliating conclusion, but it is perfectly obvious that the deplorable economic conditions which prevail in Central Europe at the present time are most undoubtedly due to the Peace Treaties made with Hungary and Austria respectively. I will go so far as to say that until the Entente Powers— the Great Powers— realise the fatal mistake which they have made and have the courage and the honesty to admit it, economic prosperity will never return to that part of the world.LORD NEWTON
125: My Lords, I have no right of reply and I do not want to
125LORD PARMOOR
126: I think it would be convenient if the noble and
126THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I will do that.LORD PARMOOR
: I do not want to give an answer without consideration.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I did not refer to Austria because I thought; that was going on at the present time.LORD PARMOOR
: Perhaps the noble and learned Lord would put that down for Thursday, when I will give a carefully considered answer.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
112: My Lords, the noble and learned Lord will see that this is a Bill in regard to which, if difference of opinion
112THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: My Lords, I beg leave to move to introduce a Bill entitled an Act to repeal Section 2 of the Gaming Act, 1835.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: I would like to put this Bill down for Second Reading to-morrow. The Bill is short, dealing with one very small point, and one which, if it is to be dealt with at all, ought to be dealt with as quickly as possible. I should, therefore, hope that your Lordships would not object to the Bill being put down for Second Reading to-morrow.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: If it is not printed by the time the House sits to-morrow I should wish to adjourn it till the following day.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
: My Lords, I understand that this is a Bill in respect of which my noble and learned friend expects there will be no difference of opinion. It is only by private conversation that I am aware of its contents. I suppose we may assume it to be the case that there will be no difference of opinion. It is, however, not a very wise precedent to take a Bill which will not, I suppose, be printed.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, in the first place I should like to apologise to my noble friend for not having given him this information on Tuesday. He will remember that a great many speeches were made and several questions were put. I am afraid that when I came to reply I overlooked the specific point of which my noble friend had given me notice. With regard to the first Question my noble friend has put down, we do not know the total sum involved in all these frauds. In the one case against Kernani and others, in which the prosecution was withdrawn against Kernani, Bannerjee and Stringer, the value of the property involved was about one lakh of rupees.THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
rapprochement133: My Lords, before an answer is given perhaps I might add one or two words to what the noble Lord has said. I must entirely disclaim the knowledge which he attributed to me regarding the legal matters involved, but what I should like to make clear, as regards the information which I think necessary and to which the noble Lord referred, is that we should know, in the first place, what is the authority under which the High Commissioner in Palestine has ordered the sale of the land of the Orthodox Greek Church That is, of course, a matter which cannot be done without authority. What is the special authority? If it is a special authority, what are the circumstances which have given rise to putting that authority in force against the Orthodox Greek Church? I was not present at
rapprochement133LORD PARMOOR
138137WakfWakfab antiquo136135moratorium134: My Lords, the first Question that Lord Sydenham has asked in regard to the Report and evidence in the Jaffa riots is, I think, a matter that has been dealt with by private letter, and I understand that he is quite content to wait until the Report will be published in a few days, when the matter ear again be raised.138137WakfWakfab antiquo136135moratorium134TEE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: My Lords, I beg to thank the noble Duke for his answer. I must get the document to which he referred; I am sure I shall read it with intense interest. The noble Duke did not say whether it would be possible, for the reasons I advanced, to give the evidence in the case of the Jaffa riots, and am I quite clear that the Advisory Council (which is a nominated body) did agree to the promulgation of this Ordinance? The only other point on which he has not made me quite clear is why these large plots are selected. Why could not they have been small plots which small people might -have had a chance of being able to purchase? Also, can the noble Duke say whether the land will be valued so that it may not go for a knock-down price, and whether it will be valued by skilled valuers with an eye to its very large prospective value?LORD SYDENHAM
139: My Lords, I can reply to one of the main points which the noble Lord raises. The land is being sold in these large plots
139THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
141140: My Lords, this is one of the Bills which are intended to deal with the question of unemployment. Its object is to suspend for a period of six months subsection (3) of Section 3 of the Forestry Act, 1919. That Act gave powers to the Forestry Commissioners to make advances by way of grant to local authorities and to private individuals in respect of afforestation. But such a grant could only be made subject to the conditions in that subsection which this Bill proposes to modify. In order to get this grant very careful and complicated accounts have to be kept. Under the Forestry Act, as it stood, there have not been a very great number of landowners and local authorities who have taken advantage of this grant.141140THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: Subject to your Lordships' approval, I will put the Committee stage down for to-morrow.THE EARL OF ANCASTER
146parcus et infrequens cultor145144: My Lords, it might be convenient that I should make a very brief observation upon the proposals recommended to the House by the noble Lord. He has, I think, done no more than justice to the decision in question. It has not been assailed, and it cannot be assailed, by any competent lawyer, but it has, none the less, produced a very inconvenient train of consequences; and I, speaking as an individual here and not as in any way taking upon myself to bind my colleagues in a matter in which, owing to the pressure of affairs, I have not had the opportunity of ascertaining their collective view, have no hesitation in giving every measure of support which is in my power to the Bill that is now before your Lordships.146parcus et infrequens cultor145144THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
148147: My Lords, the noble Lard who introduced this Bill began by expressing the hope that he would not be held to be taking too much upon himself in the action which he has thought it right to pursue with reference to this matter. The noble. Lord, I am sure, need be under no apprehension whatever upon that point. On the contrary, the sporting world undoubtedly, and, I believe myself, the British public generally, will be themselves greatly indebted both to the noble Lord for the speech that he has made upon this subject and for the speech that has just fallen from the Lord Chancellor.148147VISCOUNT CHAPLIN
: My Lords. I propose to take the Committee stage of the Bill to-morrow, if your Lordships see no objection to that course.LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
143versus142: My Lords, anyone who heard what was said upon this subject by the Lord Chancellor in answering a Question which I ventured to put to him, would not be surprised, I think, at this Bill being now brought before your Lordships for consideration. I only hope that your Lordships will not think that, like the sons of Zeruiah, I have taken too much upon me in acting as the mouthpiece for a proposal of this kind. I have every hope that there is no opposition to the Bill in this House. I have spoken to various members of the House whose authority is recognised here, and I have not found any disposition to disapprove of it; quite the contrary. I have also had occasion to speak about it to many members of the legal profession and to Judges of the highest position, and they did not repudiate the word "ridiculous" which I ventured to use to them in conversation in regard to the state of the law as disclosed by a Judgment in your Lordships' House which nobody can doubt for a moment was absolutely correct. It is, perhaps, a presumption on my part to say so, but we know that in dealing with appeals this House is endowed with the supremest wisdom and that it cannot be overruled. As the Lord Chancellor is in his place I think I might venture to say that he rather deplored his own infallibility last week.143versus142LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
liberum xeto168: My Lords, I venture to interpose for one moment before the noble and learned Lord, Lord Sumner, replies to what has fallen from the noble Viscount on the Woolsack, because, like him, I was prevented by urgent business elsewhere from being present in the House when this Bill was read a second time. But the point on which I do not feel quite clear is whether my noble friend opposite is convinced, as I gathered he was, that this Bill is really an urgent matter and that it is not the case, as the noble and learned Lord, Lord Sumner, appeared to conceive, and as, I think, my noble and learned friend, Lord Buckmaster, also appeared to conceive, that it did not very much matter from the public point of view as to whether this Bill was passed this autumn or at some future time.liberum xeto168THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
176: My Lords, it will be remembered that in March last the Supreme Council at its meeting in London expressed a desire that the Financial Committee of the League of Nations should examine the financial situation of Austria and seek means of remedying it. After a preliminary survey the Financial Committee stipulated certain conditions as necessary before the restoration of Austria's credit could be undertaken. The main conditions were that the Governments having liens on Austria in respect of reparation and relief credits should agree to postpone those liens for a period of not less than twenty years; that trade barriers between Austria and neighbouring countries should be removed; and that the Austrian Government should itself take stringent measures to improve its internal financial situation.176THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
: My Lords, I am afraid we shall have to invite the House to meet to-morrow afternoon at a quarter past four, in order to proceed with two or three Bills already on the Paper for Second Reading, and a further Bill in respect of the unemployed workers for which Lord Clarendon obtained a Second Reading this afternoon. I shall be very glad if your Lordships will allow Standing Order No. XXXIX to be considered and suspended in relation to this Bill to-morrow, because there are several Amendments, all, I believe, except one, of a drafting character, which Lord Clarendon desires to insert, and he is anxious for technical reasons that the Bills should pass into law by Tuesday next, so that the Lords' Amendments will go to the Commons, and if necessary reach us again, in time for the Bill to pass on that date. Lord Peel will also, if convenient, take the Second Reading of the Trade Facilities Bill to-morrow.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
178: My Lords, before the House adjourns I think it would be due to us that the noble Earl should give some explanation of the urgency which demands a Friday sitting. We have not been told, except as regards one Bill, which I understand the noble Earl says for some reason or other ought to become law on Tuesday, what the urgency is. So far as I know there is no special reason for the immediate rising of Parliament. We are not at the end of August, or the beginning of the holiday season, or obliged for any reason to bring about, an early Prorogation of Parliament. My noble and learned friend, Lord Buckmaster, owing to legal business, will not be able to be in the House to-morrow, and I understand from him that he is desirous of speaking on one of the Bills with which it is proposed to proceed.178THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: There are two points which arise. One is with regard to the special case of the Unemployed Workers' Dependants (Temporary Provision) Bill, and the other with regard to the Bill which Lord Crewe mentioned, the Trade Facilities Bill. The special reason why we are anxious to get the Unemployed Workers' Dependants (Temporary Provisions) Bill through quickly is that Wednesday, in very large industries affected by this Bill, is often a pay-day, and it is desirable that the adjustment provided for under this Bill should take place as and from the first pay-day after its passage. It is quite possible, I suppose, to put off the Bill for a week, and so postpone it, but the desire of the Government is that it should be passed as quickly as possible, and November 7 is, I think, actually set out in the Bill as the day when it is expected to receive the Royal Assent. That is what induces me to ask your Lordships to take that Bill to-morrow.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
179: Yes, but my point was not the length of the session — although I adverted to that— but the question of the necessity for the suspension of Standing Orders at this stage of the session and the passing of measures through this House, even although a certain proportion of them are Bills which, being Money Bills, are not susceptible of amendment here in Committee. Perhaps the
179THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: No; it is not certified as a Money Bill.THE EARL OE CRAWFORD
: But it is not, I take it, susceptible of amendment by your Lordships' House, because it could not be amended without varying some public charge.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: That is the case. It is a Money Bill, but not certified as such. But I think the noble Marquess is under a misapprehension. It is only in respect of that particular Bill that I suggested suspension of the Standing Orders, because that is the Bill that we want to pass by Tuesday. I do not suggest that it should apply to any other Bill at this stage.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
174: My Lords, the answer to the noble Lord's Question asking for these particulars is that the number of crop reporters in the year 1913–14 was 220, and in 1920–21, 336. The amount voted for crop reporting in the earlier year was £3,600, and the actual cost £3,137; in 1920–21 the amount voted was £36,500 and the actual cost was £34,117. The increase in the cost since 1913–14 was mainly due to the fact: that in the earlier period the Annual Agricultural Returns were collected by the Customs and Excise. The actual cost of the work to the Customs and Excise in 1913–19 is not known. It was all taken as a block Vote, and the only information we can give on that point is that about thirty years earlier the annual cost was estimated at £11,800; but since 1890 no special provision has been made in the Vote for the work done by the Customs or Inland Revenue under this head, as it has been lumped in with other services. There has been, however, no material change in the character of the work between 1913–14 and 1920–21, and although it is probable that it is more efficiently done under the present system, it may be taken as certain that the collection of the Annual Returns is not more costly than if they were still being collected by the Customs.174THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
175: My Lords, after the very full answer of the noble Earl I do not wish to press any further for the Return for which I moved, I am quite satisfied to get the fullest information he can give me, but I would ask him carefully to consider any representations which may be made to him by agricultural bodies,
175LORD STRACHIE
: As we all know, it is quite possible for privilege to be waived in another place, which, as the noble Earl opposite will, remember, we invited the House of Commons to do when we carried certain Amendments, at the end of the first part of the session, to the Safeguarding of Industries Bill. The other House did not then see fit to waive its privilege, but it is to be presumed that, on an Amendment carried on behalf of the Government, they might do so. Whether they are privilege Amendments or not may not, therefore, affect the question.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: My Lords, on behalf of Lord PARMOOR, I beg to ask His Majesty's Government whether they can state what progress has been made in providing Credits for Austria; and how far any difficulties which stood in the way of participation by the United States of America have been removed.LORD EMMOTT
: But are they privilege Amendments?LORD EMMOTT
180: I presume the noble Earl in charge of the Bill can assure us that
180LORD EMMOTT
: I assented to that course, subject to the other Amendment by Lord Sumner being introduced on the Report stage to-morrow. We have no justification for asking your Lordships to hurry a Bill through a session of Parliament like this if it is one in regard to which there is controversy. I suggest that the House should proceed into Committee, and that the noble and learned Lord should move his Amendment, with an understanding that between now and the Report stage to-morrow the noble Lord in charge of the Bill should put down an Amendment which would produce the consequences that appear from these discussions to be desired.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
166: My Lords, I am extremely sorry that I should not have been in the House when this discussion, unexpected by me, arose. I was sent for on some urgent public business, and had it occurred to my noble and learned friend who raised the topic to mention his intention to me I should certainly not have been guilty of the apparent disrespect of not being here when a topic was raised on which I have already contributed to the debate.166THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: They are Government Amendments.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
: Not that I am aware of.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
154153plusplus152151150: My Lords, this Bill, of which I have the honour to move the Second Reading this afternoon, is part of what I might call a quadruple effort on the part of the Government to deal with the serious question of unemployment—an evil which is so prevalent in our midst to-day. I think it will be generally agreed that the one sterling remedy for unemployment is once more to get trade and industry moving upon an economic basis. That is the main objective of the Government in introducing what I have already described as their quadruple effort. The view is that in some degree we can attain that trade revival by putting into operation certain other schemes which will come before your Lordships' House during the course of the next two or three days. And while these proposals are being pressed forward relief works of a useful and productive character are being pressed forward with satisfactory results. When the Minister in another place moved the Second Reading of this very Bill he was able to announce—this, remember, was more than a week ago—that seventy-one
154153plusplus152151150THE EARL OF CLARENDON
versusversusversus161versusversusversus Briggsamour proper160versus: My Lords, before this Motion is put from the Woolsack I wish to say a few words to your Lordships to clear up a misapprehension which I think is rather of a serious nature with regard to this Bill, and to its chance, or its right, to be regarded as a Bill which can pass this House with general approbation, and which it is right and proper to expedite through every stage, as if it were an emergency measure arising in the middle of the war, instead of being merely a Bill to reverse a recent decision of your Lordships' House in favour of a limited number of bookmakers.versusversusversus161versusversusversus Briggsamour proper160versusLORD SUMNER
: Why not go into Committee now? I understood that the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack seemed to recognise that to be the best course.LORD SUMNER
: We are told by the noble Earl (the Earl of Clarendon) that the Bill that has just been read a second time, dealing with the unemployed, will occupy to-morrow, because it is very urgent and it has to pass through its further stages. Would not next week be better for this measure? There is no urgency about it.LORD SUMNER
: I beg to move that all words after the word "repealed" to the end of the clause be omitted.LORD SUMNER
169in totoliberum xeto: My Lords, I have your Lordships' permission to say a few words although I have no right to do so, and I will express the most practical conclusion that. I can. How it came to be imagined that I could he supposed to have a 169in totoliberum xetoLORD SUMNER
170: My Lords, I still hold the opinion that this is a Bill that there is no hope of passing in the other House if there is any controversy in regard to it. To leave the position as it is left in the Statute is ridiculous, and I think the sooner it is amended the better. I certainly had hoped that this Bill would be allowed to go through without any opposition. I do not think that anything has been brought by way of surprise before the House. Everybody iii the country was acquainted with, and was interested in, what had taken place, and opinion was, I thought, unanimous in favour of trying to get. rid of the mess into which it appeared the Statute had got. The question is whether I should ask the House to divide now upon the Motion to go into Committee on the Bill. My own impression is that the best course would be to take the Committee stage to-morrow, and perhaps the noble and learned Lord will be good enough to put his Amendment on the Paper, as I have no doubt he would have done if I, under a misapprehension of feeling in the House— not a misapprehension as to the
170LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
164: I do not agree with that. I think, as I have said before, that this is a matter which, if it is to be dealt with at all, ought to be dealt with at once. But I see now that the Lord Chancellor has returned, and I think I had better stale, in the presence of the noble and learned Lord, what has taken place. The noble and learned Lord, Lord Sumner, has taken exception to proceeding with this Bill, and has given reasons. I do not, for the moment, deny that there is great force in what he has said, but I have already stated that I could not consent to postpone this measure to-day without the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack, who has taken a prominent part in the matter, having an opportunity of saying anything that he thinks ought to be said on the subject.164LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
163162: My Lords, I confess that I am taken by surprise at the attitude taken up with regard to this Bill by my noble and learned friend opposite. It is quite true that I did not speak
163162LORD MUIR MACKENZIE
158157156155: My Lords, I am sure that you must all have felt that the expressions of sympathy to which the noble Earl gave utterance were sincere. I think also that you feel, with myself, some sense of gratitude to the noble Earl for the extremely clear way in which he explained the provisions of a not too simple Bill. In rising to make some criticism upon the measure, I desire to do so only for the purpose of asking your Lordships once more to consider not merely the palliatives, of which this Bill is one, for the disastrous condition into which our industry has fallen, but to see if there be not some root mischief that lies at the bottom of this trade depression— mischief which, unless it be relieved, will render it a permanent burden upon our national life.158157156155LORD BUCKMASTER
165: My Lords, it not infrequently happens that, owing to the compulsory absence of some noble Lord from this House, the considerations that ought to be before this House when a Bill is read a second time are not then urged, and the Motion that the Bill should go into Committee is, undoubtedly, a convenient time when matters of that kind can be raised before the House decides to proceed upon the steps in the progress of this Bill which will certainly end in its ultimately finding its place on the Statute Book.165LORD BUCKMASTER
: My Lords, the short effect of the change made in the Bill is simply this that in future, if the Bill becomes law, no person w Ito pays a gaming loss by cheque can recover that payment in the Law Courts; and, in the second place, that no person who, in consequence of the recent decision, would otherwise in a representative capacity be compellable by law to institute proceedings in respect of past payments by cheque, will if this Bill becomes law, be so compellable. On the merits of the two cases those of the noble Lord who moved the Amendment and of his critic, 1 agree with the former, and the reason for the advice which I gave him yesterday was simply that I was convinced that if there were to be a difference of opinion and a Division, there was not the slightest possibility of the Bill becoming law at all. I do not know if there is much possibility now, but at any rate it was better to have sonic chance than none at all, or so it seemed to me.THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: The next Amendment is purely a drafting one, consequential upon the first that was passed.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
: My Lords, I beg now to make the Motion standing in my name.THE EARL OF CLARENDON
: My Lords, the Bill the Second Reading of which I now move, must be considered in connection with, and can only be studied in connection with, those other measures for the relief of unemployment, some of which have already been placed before your Lordships. This Bill is a very intricate one, and, as there- is such a small attendance, I do not propose to go into a detailed description of it at the present time. I think that it would probably be best, if there are any points which your Lordships wish to raise, that I should deal with them on Committee stage.THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCKY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
185: My Lords, under the law of Scotland, Poor Law relief can be given only to persons who are disabled as well as destitute. In England destitution is the only qualification for giving relief to the able-bodied. The main object of this Bill, which is a temporary measure, is to make the practice in this respect the
185LORD STANMORE
dsdsbona fidebona fide: My Lords, this is a short measure agreed to by the Approved Societies. The object is to bring back into insurance temporarily thosedsdsbona fidebona fideTHE PARLIAMEN'I'ARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
190: The State always contributes two-ninths of the cost,
190THE EARL or ONSLOW
193192dsdssd191ddsd: My Lords, this Bill is one of the series of Bills which have been introduced by the Government to deal with the situation produced by the unexampled condition of unemployment. The main objects of the Bill are dealt with in the first clause, and are destined to facilitate relief. This falls into two categories— indoor relief and outdoor relief. With regard t o outdoor relief, the machinery already exists in the Metropolitan Common Poor Fund, established in 1867. This Bill enables the payment for the maintenance of a person enjoying indoor relief to be increased from 5193192dsdssd191ddsdTHE EARL OF ONSLOW
195194: My Lords, unfortunately I was not able to be in the House when the noble Earl began his speech, and I merely desire to ask one or two questions of him as to what has actuated the Ministry of Health in the precise form which this Bill for the relief of the poorer boroughs in London and the poorer Unions has taken. It was, as I understand, the fixed policy of the Local Government Board that the Metropolitan Common Poor Fund should in no circumstances become responsible for outdoor relief. There was an Inquiry conducted by a Royal Commission on the Poor Law and Relief of Distress in which important evidence was given by Sir Hugh Owen, who at that time was the permanent Secretary of the Department now represented by the Ministry of Health. In the course of that Inquiry, Sir Hugh Owen was asked whether there had been any proposal to put outdoor relief on the Metropolitan Common Poor Fund, and he explained in great detail— I will not trouble your Lordships with the whole of it— why such a course was, in the opinion of the Local Government Board, an impossible one to take. He prepared a table which
195194THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
d: Up to 6dVISCOUNT PEEL
: Why not?LORD BUCKMASTER
: The total amount is only £25,000,000.VISCOUNT PEEL
d: Does not Id. in the £ produce between four and five millions? Four to five millions is a very liberal estimate, and six times that is twenty-four. I do not think I am very far wrong in saying that this is going to be found out of the Revenue of this country. Your Lordships will have the pleasure of paying another 6dLORD BUCKMASTER
: I must express my regret that the noble Lord was not present on Friday. He says it was due to the anxiety of the Government to press on with its business. I hope he acquits me of any desire to press it on unduly—THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
: I thought I did say that. I rather appreciated the zeal of the noble Viscount.LORD BUCKMASTER
208d207: 1 was not quite certain, and I wanted to elicit that compliment in rather more explicit language. I really did not know until very recently that this Amendment was on the Paper, or I would have been prepared to answer more fully the general question of the noble and learned Lord on the financial situation itself. I will, however, do my best to answer the specific point and complaint of the noble and learned Lord, first of all, as to the sum to be guaranteed being so large as £25,000,000, and secondly, as to the method by which it was to be done.208d207VISCOUNT PEEL
209: I understand a good deal of what the noble Viscount has said, but I think he has overlooked this, that this is not a Bill merely for guaranteeing long loans such as those to which he referred. This is a Bill to guarantee the loan of any corporation or body of persons, whoever they may be. It may be a joint stock company or a private firm, and they do not raise loans at 6¼ per Cent with fifteen years for repayment—their loans have to be paid very promptly; and there is
209LORD BUCKMASTER
: Could not the Government by some means make this a prior charge on these enterprises? And is there any provision in the Bill which says where the charge stands relative to other debts which the companies may have?LORD VERNON
210: Two points have been raised. First of all, the noble and learned Lord (Lord Buckmaster), has, I think, taken rather too sharp an alternative. He said the guarantee would be applied in cases where, without 1-he guarantee, a. loan could not be raised at all. I think he is going rather too far. It might quite conceivably, indeed very probably, be applied in cases where the company or Government, or whatever it was, might be able to raise the loan, but raise it at such a price time it would not be worth while for it to go on with the enterprise any further; and the Government guarantee— we are, of course, very familiar with this sort of transaction— would enable the money to be raised at a better price and a lower rate of interest. It may very well be that that difference between the two prices would be sufficient to make a profit a possibility, and to enable the enterprise to go forward, because so many firms and businesses are hanging back now in the hope that things will be better. The object of the Government is to give a little push to trade, and to try and start operations of this kind with the assistance of the Government guarantee.210VISCOUNT PEEL
: Can the noble Viscount say whether the question of what is a prior charge rests with the Committee?LORD VERNON
: It rests with the Committee, subject, of course, to the overriding responsibility of the Treasury. But the noble Lord will understand that in cases of this kind, where there may be suggestions of political influence, it is much better that they, should generally accept the decision or advice of an impartial business Committee.VISCOUNT PEEL
: not the whole point of this Bill that the Government is prepared to undertake risks which no banker would feel justified in running?LORD SYDENHAM
212: My Lords, the importation of potatoes from the Netherlands and other countries adjacent to Germany in the present year is quite normal, and gives no ground for suspicion that fictitious re-consignment of German potatoes from an intermediate country is being attempted. I think the noble Lord has rather confused
212THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (THE EARL OF ANCASTER)
: My Lords, in the unavoidable absence of Lord Strachie I desire to put the Question which stands in his name on the Paper— namely, to ask His Majesty's Government whether they will publish the Report of the proceedings of the last Imperial Conference as a Parliamentary Paper as they did in the case of the Imperial Conference of 1917.LORD VERNON
213: My Lords, in connection with the Imperial meetings which took place last June and. Judy, it is not proposed to publish anything beyond what has already been given to the Press—namely, "The Summary of the Transactions of the Prime Ministers and Representatives of the United Kingdom, the Dominions and India, June, July, and August, 1921," a Paper which was approved by the Empire representatives for publication,
213THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
s199: My Lords, I think I can deal with the main questions put to me by the noble Marquess and the noble and learned Lord who has just sat down. As to the reasons why this particular course was followed rather than adopting the equalisation of rates, I endeavoured to explain them when I first addressed your Lordships, and the objections which I mentioned are these The richer boroughs objected most strongly to
s199THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Might I remind the noble Earl that the question I put to him was why the Department had not adopted both methods so as to give some inducement to the poorer boroughs who will receive the bulk of the money not to expend it extravagantly. There would be a certain degree of check upon them if they became liable to some increase of their own rates, although the Metropolitan Fund had contributed a considerable part of the money.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
dd"It appears from particulars furnished by the clerks to the several Boards of Guardians in London (i) that the additional 10dd200: The noble Marquess really asks why both schemes were not adopted, or a part of both schemes. The answer to that is that the objections were so strong to the equalisation of rates scheme that it was thought better to adopt the second scheme— namely, the consolidation of outdoor relief. The equalisation rate is levied not on rateable value but upon a population basis; the other is levied on rateable value, and it is this rate which produces the sum necessary to deal with the state of affairs that has arisen.dd"It appears from particulars furnished by the clerks to the several Boards of Guardians in London (i) that the additional 10dd200THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I should like to make inquiries on that point. I cannot answer offhand but I will let my noble friend know at the next stage. He also spoke of handing over your debts to posterity. I should like to point out that the proposal of the Bill is that a borough might borrow money on overdraft for current expenses; that is to avoid having to raise a higher rate than is absolutely necessary. But the borough will have to balance its books at the end of the year. There are very heavy charges on local authorities at present, and in order to spread this charge out power is given in the Bill to enable money borrowed before April 1, 1923, to be spread over ten years. That period is a very outside estimate and it is hoped that the time over which this money will be spread will be much shorter than that.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: I have not the figures with me, but I will make a note of the point and give the noble Lord the information at a later stage.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, before the House goes into Committee on this Bill I should like to ask a question of the noble Lord in charge of it. I apologise to him, but I was unable to be in the House on the Second Reading of the Bill. Clause 2 of the measure deals with loans to parish councils in connection with the relief of able-bodied persons out of employment. Many parishes will find great difficulty in raising loans because the security of those loans will not be such as to justify the banks in giving advances. I understand that His Majesty's Government are not going to ask the banks to lend the money for a period of five years, but that the local authorities will be invited to arrange the loans themselves for five years, and that if they cannot arrange the loan, the Government will step in and raise a loan for them. The parish council will go to the banks for an overdraft, and the Board of Health will be prepared to give a certificate to the bank if the overdraft is in order. I want an assurance from my noble friend that that is an accurate statement; that the Government are prepared to do this, and that this will be the procedure. It is a very important point and a great many parish councils are anxious to have that assurance clearly affirmed, as it did not appear to me to be complete when the Bill left the Commons.LORD SALTOITN
: My Lords, I beg to give notice that to-morrow I shall move, or my noble friend the Marquess Curzon of Kedleston will move, the consideration with a view to its suspension of Standing Order No. XXXIX in respect of certain measures—namely, the two Bills standing first on the Order Paper to-day (the National Health Insurance (Prolongation of Insurance) Bill and the Local Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill). I should also like to give notice that I shall move that Government Orders do have precedence in order to get the Amendments down to the Commons at the earliest possible moment.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: My noble friend is perfectly right in the interpretation he puts on the Bill. Parish councils who have overdrawn their accounts with the banks are authorised by the Bill to raise loans, the proceeds of which will be used to pay off the overdrafts. There is no intention of asking the banks to lend for five years; the loans will be raised otherwise, with the help of the Board of Health.LORD STANMORE
: Can the noble Earl tell us, in supplement of what he has said, what is the net additional liability of the State?VISCOUNT HALDANE
201: My Lords, the noble Earl has informed us that this is an
201LORD BUCKMASTER
: I also asked the noble Lord whether he could give us the effect on total rates of the changes effected by the Bill?LORD PARMOOR
: What I really wanted to know was whether they had been taken into consideration in the estimate of the increases given lower down in the same White Paper.LORD PARMOOR
198dsssdsds197dsd196dsddsdsdsd.: My Lords, I should like to say a word or two upon this Bill because I called your Lordships' attention, at an earlier stage this year, to the enormous burden which not only lay upon the rates then but was constantly being placed upon them. I pointed out at that time that the income derived from the rates had risen to £ 200,000,000 a year, although only charged upon certain classes of property. At that time the representative of His Majesty's Government—I think it was the noble Viscount, Lord Peel—intimated that the whole question would be considered by the Government in order that these enormous charges might be disposed of on some more equitable basis. Of course, when we come to the question of "equitable basis" we open the whole discussion as between local and what are called Imperial charges; but that is a matter which must inevitably be undertaken.198dsssdsds197dsd196dsddsdsdsd.LORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, I beg to make the Motions which stand in my name with reference to certain Gas Orders, and by the leave of your Lordships I will move all four together. They are very simple and are in accordance with other Resolutions which have been moved on similar matters in the pastLORD SOMERLEYTON
: My Lords, I have not been able to follow the reason for this extraordinary haste in getting these Bills through. Why is this Standing Order suspended to-day?VISCOUNT CHAPLIN
: Lord Onslow has been invited by one or two Peers to make an Amendment to his Bill, and he proposes to accept that Amendment. The Bill will have to go back to another place, and it will be a convenience to them and, I hope, not an inconvenience to your Lordships, that that should be done as early in the afternoon as possible.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Where does the inconvenience arise?VISCOUNT CHAPLIN
: I think Lord Chaplin was in the House of Commons for thirty-eight years, or rather longer.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Forty-seven.VISCOUNT CHAPLIN
arrière pensée: And he is well aware that it is a great convenience in another place to have the Amendments of this House before them so that they can be circulated by the Clerk at the Table and shown to Members in order that a certain amount of notice may be given of the changes which your Lordships propose. There is no arrière penséeTHE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: My Lords, I have now to make the Motion standing in my name.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY or HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
fromby: I beg to accept this Amendment with one trifling modification; that is to say, that it shall read "the authority may set off any sum payable to the council frombyTHE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Certainly.LORD HEMPHILL
: The next Amendment on the Paper is purely drafting.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: The Amendment to this clause which I have placed on the Paper is also drafting.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, I beg to move the Resolution standing in my name in regard to this Bill.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, my noble friend may rest assured that no change will be made in the relation between this country and Egypt without adequate opportunities being given for discussion in Parliament.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: May I ask the noble Earl about the Mandate for Palestine?LORD SYDENITAM
225: My Lords, the text of this Mandate, as submitted to the Council, has already been placed in the
225THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: I do not know how far the Question covers that point, but if Lord Sydenham is here, tomorrow, perhaps he would put that to me then and I will give him a special answer.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
229: My Lords, I have been asked to answer these Questions by my noble friend, Viscount Peel, who is unable to be in his place to-day The increases which were imposed last year in the rates of postage had for their object the placing of Post Office finance on a paying footing. In 1920–21, the Post Office services were run at a loss of over £6,500,000. In the current year this loss will be materially reduced by a reduction of expenditure, and especially the automatic reduction of the war bonus consequent upon the fall in the cost of living; but this reduction would still leave a wide gap between the revenue and expenditure, and in view of the importance of securing that the Post Office services should pay their way and not remain a burden on general Taxes, the Government decided to make certain increases, principally in the rates for postcards, printed matter and foreign letters. The Postmaster-General stated at the time in the House of Commons that as soon as a surplus is assured on
229LORD STANMORE
237Reuter236" It must now at least be evident to the eyes of all Europe that it was not Hungary, whose only safeguard lay in strict adherence to the Trianon Treaty, who endangered the peace of Europe, but the ambitions of her neighbours."" The attempt of the ex-Emperor was not the cause but the pretext for intervention on the part of her neighbours, who had endeavoured to put forward demands far beyond the question at issue."putsch: My Lords, I agree with every word my noble friend has said, except that I should not perhaps have condemned ex-Emperor Karl in quite such severe terms as he has done, because I cannot help feeling that he must have been grievously misled by some of his friends. I hope His Majesty's Government will take this opportunity of making perfectly clear their attitude in regard to this very grave matter. What are the simple facts that my noble friend so well explained? The ex-Emperor Karl made a sudden air-raid on the throne of Hungary. The Hungarian Government, acting with rare promptitude, arrested him and handed him over to our custody. I assume that. the Hungarian people cannot wish the ex-Emperor Karl to he their King, but if they did, I cannot see the slightest moral right on our part to object. If we do object, as my noble friend said, the dynamite-charged phrase which President Wilson adopted must by this time have exploded itself and be disregarded for ever more.237Reuter236" It must now at least be evident to the eyes of all Europe that it was not Hungary, whose only safeguard lay in strict adherence to the Trianon Treaty, who endangered the peace of Europe, but the ambitions of her neighbours."" The attempt of the ex-Emperor was not the cause but the pretext for intervention on the part of her neighbours, who had endeavoured to put forward demands far beyond the question at issue."putschLORD SYDENHAM
: My Lords, I am very glad that the question of the exclusion of the House of Hapsburg from the throne of Hungary has been raised in this House, because I should be glad to know how His Majesty's Government can reconcile it with the principle of self-determination, about which we have heard so much of late. I am sorry that I could not agree entirely with Lord Newton. I must confess to a certain amount of sympathy with the Emperor Karl. From the time that he succeeded to the throne I believe he did his very best to come to terms with the Great Entente. It is common knowledge that he made advances to Monsieur Clemenceau, and, in addition to that, negotiations were carried on in the year 1917 when, I believe, it is a fact that the Entente Powers were quite willing to allow him to remain on the Throne if he separated from Germany. If the Emperor on that occasion, instead of acting as a. constitutional monarch and being guided by his responsible Ministers, had acted as an absolute monarch, he would probably have been on the throne of Austria-Hungary at the present time. What is chiefly urged against him is that on a recent occasion he broke his plighted word to Switzerland.LORD ORANMORE AND BROWNE
: Quite.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: So far we have only heard one side of the question. We have heard what has been said by the Swiss Federal Government, and. we have hail no opportunity of hearing the Emperor's defence, but we know it was said by the Prime Minister, in the very eloquent speech he made last week, that in this country, at any rate, every subject of the King is supposed to be innocent until he is proved to be guilty. I think it is a very curious thing, in connection with the very short campaign of the Emperor Karl, that a boycott does exist with regard to what took place. I do not know if your Lordships have noticed it, but there were most meagre accounts of what happened from the time the Emperor landed in Hungary until he was taken therefrom.LORD ORANMORE AND BROWNE
: They stopped everything at Vienna.LORD NEWTON
persona grata239: It is evident that there must have been Proclamations to the army and appeals to the people, and yet not one word has reached us here. On the occasion of his leaving the soil of Hungary he addressed a few words to those present, in which he said he had friendly feelings towards the Entente Powers, or at any rate, that he was not unfriendly towards them. We are told that part of the message has been censored by Austria. I should like to know what authority she has to censor a message from Hungary to the Press of the United Kingdom. I must confess that I regret very much that this country should have acted as gaoler to the ex-Emperor and ex-Empress on this occasion and that a British ship should now be taking them to their. St. Helena, because although it may be said that Madeira is a charming island, as I know it to be, yet I do not think that any one of your Lordships would wish to be interned there for the remainder of his life.persona grata239LORD ORANMORE AND BROWNE
: My Lords, I regard this matter as a very grave one— so grave that I regret that we do not see the noble Marquess the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in his place; I have no doubt there is some very urgent public reason for it. I dare say preparations have been made for answering the Question and the observations of the noble Lord, Lord Newton, and no doubt that duty will be admirably discharged by the noble Earl (Lord Crawford) who will take the noble Marquess's place But I should have liked the noble Marquess to have heard what has fallen from the various members of your Lordships' House upon this subject.LORD PHILLIMORE
: There is nothing in it.LORD NEWTON
242guerre de revanche241: I may be mistaken—it is a very long Treaty—but I read through it as far as I could, and I cannot find anything in it to that effect. I am not aware that there in any protocol or any arrangement—certainly none which has been submitted to your Lordships' House—under which any bargain of that kind has ever been made with Hungary. I thought that we fought the war for the sake of self-determination and the protection of little countries, and we are now apparently ending the war by allowing a small country to be oppressed by its neighbours and, indeed, by putting the pistol to her head ourselves.242guerre de revanche241LORD PHILLIMORE
243parole: My Lords, the Question on tire Paper is very precise and self-contained, and I certainly am not prepared to enter upon a number of very disputatious matters such as we have heard this afternoon. Neither need I follow my noble friend, Lord Newton, into the records, all too short, of Iris vivacious conversations with the princes and statesmen of Central Europe. I cannot really argue, I am not in a position to argue, with your Lordships whether it is the case that Hungary was a safeguard against German aggression—I should have thought a very controversial statement— or whether Hungary was a military nation or not—I should have thought a very controversial proposition. Still less am in a position to argue with Lord Oranmore and Browne whether he is right in inferring that the ex-Emperor did not break his 243paroleTHE EARL OF CRAWFORD
244: My Lords, I may he permitted to say, perhaps, that I really think the Foreign Office treat this matter with much too little concern. We all have sufficient evidence of the extravagant way in which the Government time after time depart from those great principles enunciated by President Wilson in the celebrated Fourteen Points, the principal one of which was, perhaps, the assertion of the right of self-determination. I am not going to reflect on other Governments, who seem to have no principles at all to guide them, but I am ashamed to say that our Government set so little store by these solemn professions that time after time they have absolutely disregarded the whole principle of self-determination.244LORD WEARDALE
245: My Lords, I have no desire to make a further speech on this subject. I only wish to comment on the fact that it appears to be the view of my noble friend that because this particular demand was put forward something like a year ago, it is, therefore, justifiable and it is not right to protest against it now. To my mind the date makes no difference at all. What is the justification for it? I want to know what the reason for it is. Either the great Powers, in what I would almost venture to call their foolishness, put this proposal forward on their own account, or it must have been suggested to them by the Little Entente. There is not a word about it in the Treaty. If it were in the Treaty it would be a totally different matter. As it is, the proposal seems to me absolutely indefensible, and I adhere to the belief that it is part of a deliberate plot. I believe that this decision has been formulated at the prompting of the Little Entente in order to create an impossible situation in Hungary. If you are going to insist that
245LORD NEWTON
246: My Lords, in consequence of the debate in your Lordships' House enquiries were made by the Foreign Office through His Majesty's Minister at the Vatican, and His Majesty's High Commissioner at Constantinople, to ascertain the views held by the Vatican and by the Holy Synod respectively in regard to the proposal. In a Despatch dated September 15, Sir Horace Rumbold reported that the question had been discussed by the Holy Synod at Constantinople,
246THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: Certainly.THE EARL OF ONSLOW
: My Lords, I was about to move that the House do adjourn until to-morrow, when it is hoped that the Prorogation may take place. I accordingly give Notice that to-morrow I propose to move the suspension of Standing Order No. XXXIX in order, as is usual, to pass the Appropriation Bill through all its stages.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
249248: My Lords, out of respect to the noble Viscount, I am unwilling that the complaint he has made should be passed over in silence. He was, I think, labouring under some misunderstanding in his complaint of the noble Earl who at this moment is leading the House, in relation to an answer given at an earlier period of our proceedings. The noble Viscount
249248THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: My Lords, I beg to put the Question of which I have given Notice— namely, to ask His Majesty's Government whether the terms of the contemplated settlement in Egypt and of the British Mandate for Palestine, in both of which questions the vital interests of the Empire are involved, will be open for discussion in Parliament before they become operative.LORD SYDENHAM
: May I take it from the noble Earl that the Mandate will not become operative till next session, when an opportunity for this House to discuss it will arise?LORD SYDENHAM
The Times219mala fides218: My Lords, in reply to my noble friend, I have read the letter of Admiral Sir Percy Scott to which he refers with the most profound astonishment and regret. It contains charges against His Majesty's Government for which there is not the least foundation, and it is written in evident ignorance of the facts. I will give these as briefly as possible to the House.The Times219mala fides218THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
: My Lords, when I rose quite early in the evening to ask a question the noble Earl might have said something regarding what he has told us just now. I asked what the reason was for hurrying through these Bills one after the other, and the noble Earl said nothing then to the effect that the Government contemplated an immediate Prorogation. I confess that I was surprised to hear his reply to my noble friend.VISCOUNT CHAPLIN
: In rising again, may I say that I speak under difficulty as my hearing, as many of your Lordships are aware, has been greatly affected recently. If the proposal had been for the adjournment of this House I should not have thought it necessary to say anything. But the Lord Chancellor has told us that Prorogation is one thing and adjournment another, and that Parliament could not meet so easily as it might wish to meet if it is prorogued instead of adjourned. No one can deny, and the Lord Chancellor is the last person to do it, that we are at this moment, in regard to Ireland, at one of the most critical positions in which we have ever been in the whole history of the Irish controversy. I still adhere to my opinion that it is not at a moment like this that Parliament ought to be prorogued, and prorogued without further notice.VISCOUNT CHAPLIN
The Times: My Lords, I beg to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs a question of which I have given him private notice—namely, whether his attention has been called to a letter in The TimesLORD NEWTON
: My Lords, I desire to ask His Majesty's Government he Question standing in my name on the Paper—namely, what has resulted from the communications of the Foreign Office and the Home Office with the Holy See with regard to securing a fixed date for Easter— and to move for Papers.LORD DESBOROUGH
: I beg to withdraw my Motion.LORD DESBOROUGH
: Will my noble friend give me copies of the correspondence?LORD DESBOROUGH
247: My Lords, I desire to ask the Leader of the House whether he can give us any information as to when it is proposed to prorogue Parliament. I am given to understand that it is in the minds of His Majesty's Government that Parliament should be prorogued
247THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
283: My Lords, I presume the Department of State responsible is the Department which has to reply to these Questions in Parliament, and as the reply to the noble Lord has been prepared by the Foreign Office I take it that that Department is the one which, in point of fact, is responsible. I fancy that while Lord Newton was concerned with the
283THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: My Lords, I think many of your Lordships will consider the reply made by the noble Earl to the complaints of Lord Newton a purely technical one and not altogether satisfactory.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: Why technical?THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: Because it appears to hinge on the purely technical point that it is not within the competence of the Government to place these criminals on their trial before a certain date—namely, that of the signing, or possibly the ratification, of the Treaty of Sevres.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: A fundamental point.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
en bloc: A fundamental point, if the noble Earl prefers that epithet. But one would have supposed that if it was common knowledge that these people had been guilty, and were perfectly certain to be proved guilty, of the most atrocious crimes, more atrocious than any that were alleged against any Germans, although those were bad enough. His Majesty's Government would have thought twice before releasing them en blocTHE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: But there must have been a Department which answered in Parliament, and that Department was the one responsible. In the case of a Department, with a Minister in charge, which looked after any subordinate branch or Commission formed during the war the Department was, from the constitutional point of view, responsible, and that was the case during the time the Prisoners of War Department existed.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
: If my noble friend will read the answer to-morrow, lie will see the legal view of the Foreign Office.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
ultra viresstatusstatus288: My Lords, I agree with what the noble and learned Lord has just said, and I think, as I stated last week, that this great sale of the property of the Orthodox Greek Church was illegal
ultra viresstatusstatus288LORD SYDENHAM
290moratorium289: My Lords, in reply to a Question by the noble Lord, Lord Sydenham, I gave your Lordships last week a brief account of the financial difficulties of the Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem, and of the steps which have been taken by the Government of Palestine to overcome them. It is quite true that the present legal position of His Majesty's Government in Palestine is that of a power occupying enemy territory. I am advised that, from a strictly legal point of view, the action taken by His Majesty's Government, through the Palestine Government,
290moratorium289THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: If I may say one word in answer to the noble Duke, I thank hint very much for the detailed answer that he has given to my Question, but if we look beneath the surface I think I am not going too far if I say that he, speaking on behalf of His Majesty's Government, admits that what has been done in Palestine cannot be regarded as legal under International Law, and will have to be validated by subsequent proceedings.LORD PARMOOR
: My reply does not admit that it is illegal action. The words I used were: "I am advised that front a strictly legal point of view the action taken by His Majesty's Government, through the Palestine Government, is entirely legal."THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: Will the noble Lord repeat the next passage, where he stated that it cannot be questioned by the Courts and will be validated in due course by the necessary legal processes. It will have to be validated in due course. In other words, it is not valid at the present time. I think I am not at all misinterpreting what the noble Duke says, and I think it is perfectly clear that there is no sanction whatever for what is being done at the present time. There are other ways in which matters of this kind might be carried out, if necessary, in accordance with International Law, and I only want to insist upon it for this reason, that there was never a. time in the world's history when the rules of International Law should be more rigidly observed, and the difficulty is that they have not been observed in many directions.LORD PARMOOR
: I think the last paragraph of my reply made it clear that there are powers by which the High Commissioner, representing the military authority, can modify the law. "The occupying Power can modify the law by orders issued by the competent military authority," and therefore the action taken was in that respect legal.THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: I do not wish to carry the controversy further, but I do not think I will find that that is what "modification" means in terms of International Law.LORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, I can only say that thou Foreign Office is advised in a different legal sense from that which the noble and learned Lord indicates. I evidently did not make it clear. These men, criminals without definitely formulated charges against them by witnesses in our possession, have been released, unconditionally released, and this has been done on the responsibility of the Government—for which Lord Curzon, as Minister in charge, takes personal, as opposed to collective, responsibility—in order to save the lives of a handful, but none the less a precious remnant of British prisoners who have been done to death by this Angora Government.THE EARL OF CRAWFORD
292: My Lords, I would refer the noble Lord to the answer given to him yesterday by my noble friend the First Commissioner of Works. As my noble friend stated, the Government would raise no objection to the discussion of the terms of the Draft Mandate, if it is the general desire of the House that they should be discussed. As the noble Lord knows, the Draft has already been submitted to the Council of the League of Nations, and His Majesty's Government are, not prepared to ask the Council to postpone consideration pending discussion in Parliament.
292THE DUKE OF SUTHERLAND
: My Lords, there is one slight drafting Amendment to this Bill made in the House of Commons last night. It is purely verbal. I beg to move that the House do agree with the Commons in their Amendment.THE PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (THE EARL OF ONSLOW)
: My Lords, the Motion I submit to the House is placed on the Paper in order to allow the House to pass the Consolidated Fund Bill through all its stages at this sitting.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
257status and bona fides"It breaks of itself—not through rough usage—and the whole process of manufacture has to be commenced again. At the beginning of the year one piece after another broke as soon as it was made, and it took me some months before I could make an experiment. Had the pm-war German glass been available it would not have taken as many weeks. Then, again, there are instruments which are specialities of certain German firms, who have all the patterns and special tools required for their manufacture, and, though as a matter of theory, these might be made in England the cost in time arid money of making these tools is so great as to make their production here impossible. The difficulties of research have always been great. They arc now made much greater by the difficulties in the way of getting the best possible materials and implements,""Perhaps my own experience is a good illustration. My experiments require the use of very elaborate apparatus made of glass. These are made by my assistant, who is one of the most skilful and experienced glass-blowers in the country. Some of the apparatus takes two or three weeks to make, and in the pre-war days when German glass was available, when once it was made it stood and lasted for months. Now, when it is made of English glass, it often cracks and breaks of itself,"256255"We have also suffered considerably through the delay which the Reparation Act causes in getting German hooks.""The delay—in our experience never less than three months—caused in the delivery of chemicals required research (for a very huge proportion of these are not made in this country) and the increase in cost, an, such that we are practically compelled to prepare the greater part. of such materials in the laboratory instead of buying them. For the initial stages of a research the materials can be provided in advance, but it is impossible to foresee what will be required as the investigation develops. Thus, whereas before the war a man could spend his whole time m a research, he now has to devote a considerable proportion of it to the unproductive work of preparing materials which he should be able to buy, but which he is not in a position to wait three months for. The advanced teaching suffers also but, to a less extent. The position with respect to apparatus is similar. There are several pieces of apparatus not made in this country that would greatly facilitate research work which we have been prevented from obtaining.": He says "these Acts have." It is in the present. Then he goes on, and this, of course, applies specially to the Reparation Act—
257status and bona fides"It breaks of itself—not through rough usage—and the whole process of manufacture has to be commenced again. At the beginning of the year one piece after another broke as soon as it was made, and it took me some months before I could make an experiment. Had the pm-war German glass been available it would not have taken as many weeks. Then, again, there are instruments which are specialities of certain German firms, who have all the patterns and special tools required for their manufacture, and, though as a matter of theory, these might be made in England the cost in time arid money of making these tools is so great as to make their production here impossible. The difficulties of research have always been great. They arc now made much greater by the difficulties in the way of getting the best possible materials and implements,""Perhaps my own experience is a good illustration. My experiments require the use of very elaborate apparatus made of glass. These are made by my assistant, who is one of the most skilful and experienced glass-blowers in the country. Some of the apparatus takes two or three weeks to make, and in the pre-war days when German glass was available, when once it was made it stood and lasted for months. Now, when it is made of English glass, it often cracks and breaks of itself,"256255"We have also suffered considerably through the delay which the Reparation Act causes in getting German hooks.""The delay—in our experience never less than three months—caused in the delivery of chemicals required research (for a very huge proportion of these are not made in this country) and the increase in cost, an, such that we are practically compelled to prepare the greater part. of such materials in the laboratory instead of buying them. For the initial stages of a research the materials can be provided in advance, but it is impossible to foresee what will be required as the investigation develops. Thus, whereas before the war a man could spend his whole time m a research, he now has to devote a considerable proportion of it to the unproductive work of preparing materials which he should be able to buy, but which he is not in a position to wait three months for. The advanced teaching suffers also but, to a less extent. The position with respect to apparatus is similar. There are several pieces of apparatus not made in this country that would greatly facilitate research work which we have been prevented from obtaining."THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: The noble Marquess said "last year": Did he mean for a week or two, or a month or two?VISCOUNT PEEL
259258: I was not ascribing it only to the effect of the Act of Parliament. It is quite clear, as we all know, that it is a tight fit for everybody. But the argument that I am endeavouring to enforce is that the increased price of all these materials makes it a tighter fit still for these poor people and, therefore, if it were possible to relieve them in any way that is an object lesson of what might be done.259258THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
261260: My Lords, I rise to support my noble friend in what I think is the wise course he has taken. Those of us who are concerned about this matter are quite aware of the difficulties the Government have in dealing with it. Speaking for myself I do not want to press or worry the Government in the matter, because pressing and worrying are apt to lead to a blank refusal. What I, for my part, am keen about, is to bring to light, as my noble friend has brought to light, the extreme difficulties in which research is placed at the moment because of the system, and to ask the Government to take the steps that are best adapted to get rid of the embarrassments, or at least mitigate them. My noble friend, in the conclusion of his speech, suggested that the matter might well be entrusted to the Research Department and the President of the Board of Education. I would only add that there are two other countries, one Scotland and the other Ireland, which are also deeply interested in this, and someone representing their nterests would have to be added. But with the general principle I should be quite content.261260VISCOUNT HALDANE
: Have you used them?VISCOUNT PEEL
263262: No, never. If you look at those guns and then do what I have done, look into the gunmakers' shops in the streets of Berlin, or in other German towns, you will see a great difference. The German workman cannot make what the English workman has made in this matter because the English workman has grown up with a spirit and a tradition. It is the same with the finest kind of watches. They cannot rival on the Continent the work of the British skilled worker. For myself I think that when the British skilled workman has a chance, when he is instructed, and when he has sufficient time behind him to have had a spirit put into him, you cannot beat him, but when you ask him to plunge suddenly into the making of glass it is a very different business.263262VISCOUNT HALDANE
: Will the noble Viscount explain his difficulty with regard to books?VISCOUNT PEEL
: I said it arose rather from the spirit than from anything else. But whatever may be the source of the delay and difficulty, all I can tell the noble Viscount—and I am speaking from practical experience—is that the delay and difficulty of getting books from abroad is very great. It is so great that most people get a friend to bring them over in his bag.VISCOUNT HALDANE
265264: My Lords, notwithstanding the fact that the few observations I desire to make on this Question arc to the same effect as those that have been uttered by my two noble friends, it appears to me it would be fairer if the noble Viscount who is to answer for the Government heard what was proposed to be said on this side altogether rather than that complaints should be made against the administration of this particular Act after he has answered the incidents that have already been mentioned.265264LORD BUCKMASTER
: The present prices being what—those of this month?VISCOUNT PEEL
: Of 1921.LORD BUCKMASTER
: I only wondered whether they come before or after the Safeguarding.of Industries Act.VISCOUNT PEEL
: If they are before the Act, it will make the thing so much the worse, because there will be 33⅓ per cent. added.LORD BUCKMASTER
: It does not prove that the price now has gone up by 331 per cent. However, I must defer the discussion of that for the moment.VISCOUNT PEEL
266: You must remember—it has never been denied, and cannot be denied—that the object of this Duty is to raise prices. It was so stated by the hon. member who introduced this measure in the House of Commons. That is
266LORD BUCKMASTER
: They are the latest prices.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
267sdssdsdsdssdsdsds: The noble Marquess who gave them to me, says "They are the latest," so perhaps the 33⅓ per cent. is included; if not, it has to be added. Glass basins were 2267sdssdsdsdssdsdsdsLORD BUCKMASTER
: My Lords, I am obliged to the noble Lords who have spoken for desiring to put their full case to your Lordships' House before I had the opportunity of a reply. They have developed their case on rather wider lines than I expected from the Notice, and I am sorry that I have not been able to arm myself with these lists of comparative prices, so that I could deal more fully with the points that have been placed before your Lordships' House. I think it is a tribute to the breadth of mind of the noble Marquess opposite that very soon after he, as chairman, has produced a most valuable and interesting Report on the place of the classics in education and, as I think, advocated the extension of that teaching, he should take up the cudgels as well on behalf of scientific teaching and scientific research.THE CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER (VISCOUNT PEEL)
: I understand that they may be.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: In the future, under the Act, they obviously may be. I am only pointing this out for the information of the House. I think it is an interesting point, and it bears upon the position at any rate to this extent. I was rather surprised to hear of these complaints, the numerous and general complaints alluded to by all three of the noble Lords who have spoken, because this first portion of the Act has been in operation for such a very short time, and the lists, as the noble Marquess said, were published only on September 15. Now I think that I should be borne out by the noble Lord on the back bench when I say that if it is pretty well known that a particular Duty is coining into operation at a specific time, generally it may be some time before that particular Duty is in operation, because of course all the people who are wanting supplies attempt to bring into the country as much as they can, and I am honestly surprised, if any of those effects happen which the noble Lord has referred to, that they should have happened so quickly. One would think that the supplies brought in would keep down the price for some time to come, but, naturally, I must accept what noble Lords have said on the subject.VISCOUNT PEEL
: The noble Viscount overlooks for the moment that there has been a Statute in operation for some time which excludes German goods, with a payment of a very large percentage.LORD BUCKMASTER
: Is the noble and learned Lord alluding to the German Reparation Act?VISCOUNT PEEL
: Yes, I am.LORD BUCKMASTER
269: I thought I dealt with that several times, and I thought it was admitted that the German Reparation Act, which was only a method of collecting part of the reparations, could not have any effect upon the price of goods, because the amount by which the German exporter goes short is returned to him by the German Government. That is the effect. I happen to have been inquiring the other day as to how that Act was working, and I was told that it was working perfectly, and that the German Government recognised this method of paying, and so
269VISCOUNT PEEL
: I do not think they are, but the general system gives rise to immense difficulty in getting books as well as other things. One reacts on the other.VISCOUNTNT HALDANE
: I do not understand the difficulty about books, but if the noble Viscount has been bringing in books I hope he has not also included microscopes and such things, which would render hip liable to the law. Of course, the noble and learned Viscount was very fair in his argument, as was also the noble Marquess, in expressing what was the difficulty of the Government in this particular matter, but the noble and learned Lord, in his speech, took a very wide line indeed. He was not only against the Bill, or method of the Bill, but against the whole principle of the Bill. He seemed to think that the whole of the lessons we had learned during the war should be thrown away. Of course, if we are to assume that there is never to be any war again in the world, I agree that it is possible there is no need for that particular portion of the Act, but I might remind your Lordships of what is the fundamental purpose of the Act, and may I say that I think it was a little bit misunderstood by the noble Marquess, because he alluded to the "cold Treasury "—VISCOUNT PEEL
: Surely it is the business of the Treasury to be absolutely frigid in its collection of revenue? I might add that I think it would be better if it were sometimes more so.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: It was the felicity of the phrase of the noble Marquess which made me try to imitate him. Of course, the object of the first portion of the Act is not revenue, but to secure the manufacture of goods in this country, and therefore I think the amount of money is rather negligible. The whole object of the Act was to promote the development in this country of the manufacture of products of great national importance, upon which we, before the war, were very largely dependent upon foreign countries, particularly those which proved to be our greatest enemies, with the result that in the earlier days of the war we were placed in a position of the very greatest disadvantage. I do not think I need dwell very much upon this point, because Lord Crewe will remember, as well as anybody, the difficulties we were placed in during the war with regard to scientific instruments, scientific glassware and porcelain, which were largely used not merely by educational institutions but by all kinds of industrial undertakings, and I think it is not very fair to suggest that if there was a rise in price it would fall upon a number of poor persons engaged in scientific education.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Of course, they have only to bear the burden of the things they buy.LORD BUCKMASTER
: The whole burden does not fall upon them.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Of course it does not, but upon anybody who wants these articles.LORD BUCKMASTER
273272271: All sorts of methods had to be adopted to develop -the production of these necessary commodities, and we were gravely handicapped in so doing, not only by the absence of works and plant but by the entire absence of trained work-people. A great deal of valuable work on the scientific problem is being done by such research associations as the Scientific Instrument Research Association and the Glass Research Association, with the aid of the Department of Scientific and
273272271VISCOUNT PEEL
: My Lords, I wish to thank the noble Viscount for the concluding passage of his speech, in which he said he would bring the appeal which I have made to the notice of the Minister of Education, who would, no doubt, in a matter of this kind, desire also to consult the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research. I might remind the noble Viscount that when he spoke of the repeal of the Act I made no suggestion of that repeal, and I think I confined my observations entirely to the question of the hardships inflicted on teachers and students.THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
: It was the more drastic and fulminating observations of the noble and learned Lord to which I was then replying.VISCOUNT PEEL
277276: My Lords, I quite agree with my noble friend that a Question of this sort, involving highly technical considerations, cannot be discussed with any advantage in your Lordships' House. My noble friend as an engineer may be able to enter into- these details, but if he were to do so I certainly should not be able to follow him, and I have no intention of making anything like a detailed defence of this particular scheme. I understand that he is really concerned, and, I think, quite rightly concerned, to know that all the facts of the problem have been before the Government of India and have received full consideration before the decision to create this barrage was arrived at. On this point I think I can reassure my noble friend absolutely.277276THE UNDER-SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INDIA (THE EARL OF LYTTON)
: My Lords, I beg to thank the noble Earl for his answer to my Questions. I gather from it that practically all the four points which I have raised, being really of a financial character, will be looked into again. I am very much obliged to him for promising to lay information upon the library table.LORD SYDENHAM
: My Lords, I beg to move the seven Motions standing in my name.VISCOUNT PEEL
: Might I ask the noble Duke whether the Mandate will be confirmed before the beginning of next session? If it is, of course the Houses of Parliament would have no means whatever of discussing it.LORD SYDENHAM
:My Lords, I beg to ask His Majesty's Government whether the terms of the British Mandate for Palestine will be open for discussion ill Parliament before it becomes operative.LORD SYDENHAM
: I must apologise for speaking again, but that is not the point. What we want to know is why these men were not tried when they were in our power. The question of their exchange against British prisoners is a totally different one. What we say is that they ought to have been tried long ago, and there is no reason why they should not have been brought to justice while they were in our possession.LORD NEWTON
284: My Lords, I cannot help remarking that the answer just given by the noble Earl leaves the question in a still more unsatisfactory position. These criminals were demanded by us for the purpose of trial. Now we are told that it was never contemplated to try them until the Treaty of Sevres was signed. Why should we stand on these questions of legal pedantry with the Turks at all? The Turks are a semi-civilised Power and it is perfectly unnecessary to make any stipulation of the kind. I am under the impression that if a man has committed an offence against International Law you are at liberty
284LORD NEWTON
: Exactly.LORD NEWTON
: No; we were a separate Department.LORD NEWTON
282281280279278: My Lords, I desire to put the Question standing in my name—namely, to ask if all the Turkish war criminals formerly in British custody have been released, and if so, on what conditions; whether specific charges were formulated against all or any of these men; and whether any of them were brought to trial. It will be remembered that upon the conclusion of the war there was a great outcry from many quarters, which took the form of a demand, that the various
282281280279278LORD NEWTON
: They were in our power, I understand, for nearly three years. Why were they not tried? I should have thought that, according to every legal principle, they ought to have been tied, arid were liable to be tried.LORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, the noble Lord, Lord Newton, who, as we all know, has taken so much interest in the question of prisoners, some time ago asked me a question of a somewhat legal character to which I should like to give an answer if I can. The difficulty regarding war criminals is, as a rule, of course, to get them into your possession at all. That was the difficulty as regards the Kaiser, lie was not handed over by the Dutch Government, I think rightly, because they said that in handing him over they would interfere with what they regarded as the international Law of Asylum. But these are quite different cases. These are oases where criminals did not need handing over to us, but were in our possession. Now if anything like the crimes which Lord Newton has referred to have been committed— I am not myself cognisant of the details—undoubtedly they were criminals in our possession who could be tried, and ought to be tried, for the crimes which Lord Newton has alleged against them, and that entirely independent of whether the Treaty of Sevres has been ratified or not. That question is entirely outside the point when you have criminals in your power who, according to your view, have committed crimes of the character which Lord Newton has suggested. Accordingly, the question seems to me to arise, why were they not tried?LORD PARMOOR
: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name, which is exactly in accordance with the other Motions that I made last week. I do not think that your Lordships will require any explanation of it; if you do, I shall be glad to give it.LORD SOMERLEYTON
4: My Lords, I could wish that one more competent than myself to speak of those technical accomplishments of Lord Halsbury of which the noble and learned Lord on the Woolsack spoke could have taken my place in saying
4THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
1514131211: My Lords, in rising to second the Motion before your Lordships' House I do so with a very keen
1514131211THE EARL OF DUNRAVEN
2019pis aller181716: My Lords, for a great number of years, I am sorry to say, it has been my privilege, either from this side of the Table or from the other, to follow those who have moved and seconded an Address in reply to the gracious Speech from the Throne, and it has frequently been my lot to express congratulations to those who have moved or seconded, and, further, to express the hope that after so successful a beginning they would be found taking a frequent part in the debates of your Lordships' House. To-day I am not going to commit the impertinence of congratulating either of my noble friends on their speeches, but I do desire to congratulate the noble Marquess the Leader of the House on the fortunate inspiration which prompted him to invite, as mover and seconder of the Address in reply, two noble Lords, both of whom have watched and taken part in the affairs of Ireland ever since Home Rule became a vital issue in 1885, and, indeed, for years before.2019pis aller181716THE MARQUESS OF CREWE
2524232221: My Lords, when I came into the House this afternoon, I found the Lord Chancellor from the Woolsack paying, with an authority which few in this House can equal, and in singularly well-chosen language, a tribute to the great Judge and the remarkable public man who has lately departed from our midst. I should not like, as Leader of the House, to
2524232221THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
: Does the noble Marquess say that the Constitution will be drawn up by the Irish Provisional Government, and not by the Government here?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
26: Yes. The draft, at ally rate, will be drawn up by the Provisional Government that is set up. And I was
26THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: Hear, hear.NOBLE LORDS
29vis-à-visstatus2827: That is not a question which I should like to answer definitely; I mean, it is a question which, if answered at all, ought to be answered with absolute precision Perhaps the noble Lord will allow that question to be answered at a later stage in this debate.29vis-à-visstatus2827THE MARQUESS CURZON of KEDLESTON
3130status: I do not know that it is mentioned in the provisions, but it is inherent in her 3130statusTHE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
32: But it is a serious question, and I am prepared to give a serious answer to it. I might, I suppose, retaliate by saying, why did not Lord Morley, or Mr. Gladstone, or Mr. Asquith give, instead of the patchy Home Rule which they offered, something more substantial and more like that which we are giving now? I might say why, when Mr. Disraeli or Lord Salisbury extended the franchise, did they not give the much wider extension which was afterwards found possible and necessary? The fact is, if you look at history, you find that it is almost invariably by slow and painful, and sometimes by bloodstained stages that great
32THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
status36353433: That remains to be seen. I am quite sure that Nationalist Ireland would never have accepted it before. Her idea up till last year has always been to intimidate and coerce Ulster into surrender. From the moment the Irish Act of last year was passed that became impossible. Ulster is in a position to defend herself, as we are told she means to do, more effectively than otherwise she could possibly have done.status36353433THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: I never mentioned him.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: During the truce?THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
: My Lords, I beg to move that this debate be now adjourned.THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
: My Lords, before the Motion is put I may, perhaps, suggest to your Lordships that as there are a great many noble Lords who wish to take part in the debate, we should commence at three o'clock to-morrow rather than at four; that we should sit after dinner, for which arrangements will be made, and that if we do not finish to-morrow we should continue our sittings upon Friday. From what I can hear, it is quite likely that the debate will last till then, because the list of speakers I have seep is so extensive that it does not seem to me that even the scheme I propose will be adequate to contain them all.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
53"is very bitter, and a strong feeling exists that if solid, reliable guarantees could be got, Ulster should join in with a Republican Ireland and wash its hands from all connection with such a perfidious people. In my opinion all faith of the Ulster Protestants in Englishmen's honesty or capacity has been wrecked.""The feeling here—"5251s.s.5049484746"Nobody wishes to manage Ireland's domestic affairs, but dangerous weapons like Armies and Navies I think we had better not trust them with. It would hurt them to grasp weapons of that kind, and for the sake of Ireland they had better not have them, As far as I am concerned, and I speak on behalf of the Government, we shall certainly resist out and out any demand for an Army or Navy to be set up in Ireland at our doors to menace the existence of the United kingdom.""I ask, would you give the same rights to Ireland? If not, it is no use talking about Dominion Home Rule.""Their ports are entirely in their control. They can shut their ports against British ships, and we know perfectly well that we could not interfere—""You are talking about Dominion Home Rule, but the Dominions have got Armies and Navies of their own—""I put to Mr. Asquith a question in the House of Commons. I said you are talking about Dominion Home Rule—"45"I put to Mr. Asquith a question in the House of Commons—""There can be no doubt in the mind of any reasonable man that if Ireland were given complete independence, with its own Army, and control of its own ports, and powers to enter into Treaties with foreign countries, whether they were friendly or hostile to us, that would place Britain in a position of such peril that I should hesitate to think what might befall in the event of a repetition of either the great struggle with Napoleon or the struggle with Germany."status quo44"It is the most dangerous menace to the life of this country that there ever was. If they do not get it they will kill our policemen and our soldiers, not in open fighting but in hiding, in
44"They must have an Irish Republic, an Irish Army, an Irish Navy. They won't get it."43statusLoud cheers"Why are we asked to go further? I protest against the doctrine that you should go further and give more, not because Ireland needs it, not because it is fair to the United Kingdom, but because crime has been more successful. It is a fatal doctrine for any Government in any country (Loud cheers42"far beyond that which Mr. Asquith himself thought safe in 1912, and I have got to deal with these appeals which have been made.""Mr. Gladstone went to what he considered to be the safe limit in his concessions to Ireland. There were many who thought he went too far. He went as far as he could consistent with the security of the United Kingdom and of the Empire, and consistent with supremacy in Ireland. The same applied to Mr. Asquith in 1912. But there are men, and responsible men, who would go far beyond anything Mr. Gladstone ever thought safe"—41Daily ChronicleDaily NewsThe Times4039: Yes, during the truce, and while the negotiations were going on in Downing Street, and you, the Government, are proud of the results that you have brought about. Well might Lord Crewe ask, as he did ask, why, if you are so certain of all this peace being gained by the abandonment of Ulster, did you go on for a year or two years sacrificing these precious lives, and rendering desolate households whose only crime was that they thought you were going to back them up. In that same letter I saw it stated that this young officer was murdered solely because
53"is very bitter, and a strong feeling exists that if solid, reliable guarantees could be got, Ulster should join in with a Republican Ireland and wash its hands from all connection with such a perfidious people. In my opinion all faith of the Ulster Protestants in Englishmen's honesty or capacity has been wrecked.""The feeling here—"5251s.s.5049484746"Nobody wishes to manage Ireland's domestic affairs, but dangerous weapons like Armies and Navies I think we had better not trust them with. It would hurt them to grasp weapons of that kind, and for the sake of Ireland they had better not have them, As far as I am concerned, and I speak on behalf of the Government, we shall certainly resist out and out any demand for an Army or Navy to be set up in Ireland at our doors to menace the existence of the United kingdom.""I ask, would you give the same rights to Ireland? If not, it is no use talking about Dominion Home Rule.""Their ports are entirely in their control. They can shut their ports against British ships, and we know perfectly well that we could not interfere—""You are talking about Dominion Home Rule, but the Dominions have got Armies and Navies of their own—""I put to Mr. Asquith a question in the House of Commons. I said you are talking about Dominion Home Rule—"45"I put to Mr. Asquith a question in the House of Commons—""There can be no doubt in the mind of any reasonable man that if Ireland were given complete independence, with its own Army, and control of its own ports, and powers to enter into Treaties with foreign countries, whether they were friendly or hostile to us, that would place Britain in a position of such peril that I should hesitate to think what might befall in the event of a repetition of either the great struggle with Napoleon or the struggle with Germany."status quo44"It is the most dangerous menace to the life of this country that there ever was. If they do not get it they will kill our policemen and our soldiers, not in open fighting but in hiding, in
44"They must have an Irish Republic, an Irish Army, an Irish Navy. They won't get it."43statusLoud cheers"Why are we asked to go further? I protest against the doctrine that you should go further and give more, not because Ireland needs it, not because it is fair to the United Kingdom, but because crime has been more successful. It is a fatal doctrine for any Government in any country (Loud cheers42"far beyond that which Mr. Asquith himself thought safe in 1912, and I have got to deal with these appeals which have been made.""Mr. Gladstone went to what he considered to be the safe limit in his concessions to Ireland. There were many who thought he went too far. He went as far as he could consistent with the security of the United Kingdom and of the Empire, and consistent with supremacy in Ireland. The same applied to Mr. Asquith in 1912. But there are men, and responsible men, who would go far beyond anything Mr. Gladstone ever thought safe"—41Daily ChronicleDaily NewsThe Times4039LORD CARSON
: You mentioned the delegates. Perhaps you did not know he was one of them. I do not know if you were ever there, but he was. He committed many murders with his own hands—the hand that you have now so willingly grasped. But I heard nothing said of a case that I saw in the newspapers only two days ago—a letter written by a brokenhearted mother, whose son had been through the whole war and won honour and distinction for himself, and safety and security for you. The recompense he got was that when he went to see his mother in Ireland he was foully murdered, and the next night her house was burned down, and, while you and your colleagues were carrying on all these negotiations in Downing Street, without remonstrance or interference every single article that this broken-hearted woman had was being auctioned off in the light of day.LORD CARSON
38"It is a British characteristic, though not an amiable one, that once we are beaten we go over in a body to the successful enemy, and too often
38"Is it necessary that because a man turns his coat he should divest himself of every particle of his raiment?"37: My Lords, in venturing to address your Lordships' House for the first time I am bound to admit that the only pleasure I find in such an operation is in having to welcome here the mover of this Address, Lord Morley. I cannot but recollect that it was his speech in the House of Commons just thirty years ago which, when I first spoke there, I had to answer. I think it is befitting that he should attend here at these splendid obsequies of the Unionist Party. I think he is a very proper person to pronounce the funeral oration over all that has been said and done by that misguided Party (as we have just learnt from the noble Marquess) for the last thirty-five years, dead and buried front today, with all this engineered splendour to cover up the defeat and humiliation you have had in Ireland; dead and buried, strangled, without consultation with their followers, by the leaders and trustees who were sent into the Government to protect them.38"It is a British characteristic, though not an amiable one, that once we are beaten we go over in a body to the successful enemy, and too often
38"Is it necessary that because a man turns his coat he should divest himself of every particle of his raiment?"37LORD CARSON
: She will not.LORD CARSON
: No; I laugh.LORD CARSON
: Will the noble Marquess say where that appeal is mentioned in the provisions?LORD CARSON
: May I ask the noble Marquess whether it is proposed to amend the 1920 Act as regards the finances of Ulster, and whether it will be left, to the Ulster Parliament to frame the Bill, or whether it will be done over here? Because the noble Marquess must know that the whole of the finance is taken away by this proposal.LORD CARSON
3: My Lords, before the House passes to the grave affairs which engage our attention to-day, it seems to me fitting, and I hope that I shall express the general opinion of your Lordships, that we should not allow the death of Lord Halsbury to pass without mention in this House. He was, I think, the oldest living Peer. For eighteen years he sat in the seat which I occupy to-day, and if you throw your minds back over all the illustrious men who have occupied the Woolsack—and the names of Cairns, Brougham, Lyndhurst, and of fifty others will occur to the memories of those who have had occasion to study the records of my predecessors—it will not, I think, be an exaggeration to say that hardly one of them had occupied over so long a period a position of such supreme authority as that which, by the general judgment of this House, was conceded to Lord Halsbury.3THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: My Lords, I rise to move an address in reply to His Majesty's gracious Speech this morning. There is one paragraph in His Majesty's Speech in which he says that it was with heartfelt joy that he received the intelligence of this Agreement. I am sure that all, even those who do not favour the Agreement, will feel that His Majesty in using those words is declaring a feeling that is shared by enormous numbers of people in England and in Ireland—heartfelt joy! I do not envy any Englishman or Irishman who reads those words without deep feeling. They are not official. They represent the feeling in His Majesty's own mind when he makes this Speech to your Lordships. I do not think that anybody in the House will demur to the last sentence of the Address which I now venture to move in reply to His Majesty's gracious Speech, where mention is made of the reconciliation between Great Britain and Ireland, to which His Majesty's own action has materially contributed.VISCOUNT MORLEY
"there are dark clouds and great difficulties. I believe that the first will be swept away, and that the second will be surmounted.""I am not myself dissatisfied at the moment with the Conference, but—"10vice versa.9876: I think we all feel that in making that declaration the King has been moved by that gift of sympathetic imagination which, along with acute observation, must be regarded not only as a graceful ornament in the Royal character but as an essential in the Head of a great and powerful State."there are dark clouds and great difficulties. I believe that the first will be swept away, and that the second will be surmounted.""I am not myself dissatisfied at the moment with the Conference, but—"10vice versa.9876VISCOUNT MORLEY
565554No altar if standeth whole.""Creeds pass, rites change,: My Lords, we have listened to words the gravity and sincerity of which it is impossible to measure too high. They are the words of a man who has devoted his whole public life to one cause—devoted it with an undeviating devotion which his political opponents recognise, devoted it even to the risk of breaking the law, and, as he said this evening, being ready (as I know he was) to take the consequences of his act. It is not surprising that, grave and sincere as his statement was, it should be tinged with bitterness.565554No altar if standeth whole.""Creeds pass, rites change,LORD BUCKMASTER
: My Lords, I beg to move the Motion standing in my name, to dispense with Standing Order No. 80. This is a Standing Order under which your Lordships, at the beginning of each session, appoint a Standing Orders Committee. It will be unnecessary to do that this session, and therefore I move that it be dispensed with.THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES (THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE)
The Earl of Donoughmore.pro formâ58: My Lords, I desire to make the Motion, which stands on the Paper, in regard to this Bill. It follows on the Motion that your Lordships passed last session suspending this Bill until the next session. Obviously that was not meant to apply to the present session, but to the first session next year. In order to regularise that matter, therefore, I make this Motion. I understand that the Ministry of Health are agreeable to it.The Earl of Donoughmore.pro formâ58THE CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES
"When the Irish Home Rule Act was placed upon the Statute Book, when, once for all, the just and indefeasible ease of Ulster had received protection, and for all time had become entrenched in an Act of Parliament, it depended therefore upon the honour and protection of the British Parliament. That position, secured for Ulster, will never be abandoned, at least by any Government of which I am a member."69686766ad infinitum,65"It breaks my heart, already full of sadness, to think that if my gallant son had only been a rebel he would now be alive, and probably a much honoured man by the traitors of Downing Street."64Morning Post.63"Citizens of Belfast, whatever else you have done to-day, there is one thing: you have once and for all killed Home Rule, and all that now remains is to bury its corpse. When the history of the present is written it will be said, I think, of Ulster, that this was a province that was neither conquered by cowards, or cheated by knaves. God save the King and no Home Rule.""There has not been a moment in the last fifty years in which England has ever been in difficulty that the Nationalist party have not ranked themselves on the side of England's enemies. There has been no glory won by the English arms which has not grieved them. There has been no failure, no reverse which we have sustained which has not been rare and refreshing fruit to those who now ask you to believe that they are the friends and the patriots in the empire that is to be.""Look at the Irish Nationalist members to-day. There is not one of them, if I had my way, that I would trust to administer a second-hand clothes shop. There is not one of them who has ever given sign of a greater degree of organising power than is necessary to arrange a well-conducted cattle drive. And these are the men under whose heel the great merchants of Belfast are to be placed. In other words, the successful men are to be placed under the heel of the unsuccessful men. The progressive part of Ireland is to be controlled by the unprogressive part of Ireland; and this is to be the, progress of your country, this is to be the reconciliation of your democracy."62616059: My Lords, I ask the indulgence of the House while I say a few words upon the Resolution for the discussion of which Parliament has been called in special session, and may I say at once that it is with no feelings of satisfaction that I find myself in direct opposition, on this point, to a Government which I have had the honour for a period of serving, and of representing in this House. I would address your Lordships
"When the Irish Home Rule Act was placed upon the Statute Book, when, once for all, the just and indefeasible ease of Ulster had received protection, and for all time had become entrenched in an Act of Parliament, it depended therefore upon the honour and protection of the British Parliament. That position, secured for Ulster, will never be abandoned, at least by any Government of which I am a member."69686766ad infinitum,65"It breaks my heart, already full of sadness, to think that if my gallant son had only been a rebel he would now be alive, and probably a much honoured man by the traitors of Downing Street."64Morning Post.63"Citizens of Belfast, whatever else you have done to-day, there is one thing: you have once and for all killed Home Rule, and all that now remains is to bury its corpse. When the history of the present is written it will be said, I think, of Ulster, that this was a province that was neither conquered by cowards, or cheated by knaves. God save the King and no Home Rule.""There has not been a moment in the last fifty years in which England has ever been in difficulty that the Nationalist party have not ranked themselves on the side of England's enemies. There has been no glory won by the English arms which has not grieved them. There has been no failure, no reverse which we have sustained which has not been rare and refreshing fruit to those who now ask you to believe that they are the friends and the patriots in the empire that is to be.""Look at the Irish Nationalist members to-day. There is not one of them, if I had my way, that I would trust to administer a second-hand clothes shop. There is not one of them who has ever given sign of a greater degree of organising power than is necessary to arrange a well-conducted cattle drive. And these are the men under whose heel the great merchants of Belfast are to be placed. In other words, the successful men are to be placed under the heel of the unsuccessful men. The progressive part of Ireland is to be controlled by the unprogressive part of Ireland; and this is to be the, progress of your country, this is to be the reconciliation of your democracy."62616059THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
: Will the noble Marquess do me the favour of quoting the words?THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: Will the noble Marquess read on from that point?THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I have not got it.THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
"I am expressing no opinions at all as to the provocation which those local bodies had given. Still less am I expressing, nor shall I be expected to express, any criticism of the action of the Government of Northern Ireland. I use this illustration merely in order to make plain what is the inconvenience and danger of attempting to combine, without some more scientific delimitation of boundary, counties where a minority of the population is entitled, in the affairs of the Province as a whole, to make its views felt, as the majority of the population in the particular counties is liable to have its corporate existence terminated in the circumstances I have indicated. I make it plain only that such a system cannot in our judgment be made permanently consistent with the maintenance of peace and order in Ireland.": It is rather important. I will read on from the passage where the noble Marquess closed the quotation:—
"I am expressing no opinions at all as to the provocation which those local bodies had given. Still less am I expressing, nor shall I be expected to express, any criticism of the action of the Government of Northern Ireland. I use this illustration merely in order to make plain what is the inconvenience and danger of attempting to combine, without some more scientific delimitation of boundary, counties where a minority of the population is entitled, in the affairs of the Province as a whole, to make its views felt, as the majority of the population in the particular counties is liable to have its corporate existence terminated in the circumstances I have indicated. I make it plain only that such a system cannot in our judgment be made permanently consistent with the maintenance of peace and order in Ireland."THE LORD CHANCELLOR
7271: What the noble Viscount on the Woolsack says will certainly carry great conviction with your Lordships, but what he does not seem to be aware of—and there is no reason why he should, because he has been in London and we have been in Ireland—is the state of opinion which exists in Ireland at the present moment. And when my noble friend draws attention to a matter of that kind, naturally opinions are liable to be formed of what he has said. We considered the matter, and I should like to tell your Lordships exactly what we did. We thought it most important, when a direct course was taken by a county council to impugn and flout our authority, that we should take steps at once to bring that recalcitrant authority to book. We did so. And I should like to point out to your
7271THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
A deeper voice across the storm.""Well roars the storm to those who hear77767574"The volcano that caused the eruption is still active. Beneath the black crust the lava torrent burns. The explorer of history who ventures near the crater finds the treacherous surface yield and himself plunged in the fiery marl of contemporary Party strife.""Use every man after his desert, and who should scape whipping?"73: My Lords, I shall not detain your Lordships for very many minutes. But I am one who, himself unversed in the details of Irish politics, has yet by force of circumstances been in touch for many years with the larger aspects of questions such as this, and I do not, therefore, like to keep quite silent in this great debate. It is a great debate. There was a dramatic interest, almost unequalled perhaps, in its opening last night. Our thoughts were carried back along many years as we listened to veterans, the mover and seconder be it remembered of this Resolution, who for more than a generation have been labouring, each in his own way (and they have been very different ways) for an Irish settlement and Irish peace. That episode seems to many of us to be fraught with highest hope.A deeper voice across the storm.""Well roars the storm to those who hear77767574"The volcano that caused the eruption is still active. Beneath the black crust the lava torrent burns. The explorer of history who ventures near the crater finds the treacherous surface yield and himself plunged in the fiery marl of contemporary Party strife.""Use every man after his desert, and who should scape whipping?"73THE LORD ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
84statusstatus838281807978: My Lords, I do not think we ca a have any doubt that it has been a great advantage to your Lordships to have the ease of Ulster stated so admirably as it has been stated by the noble Marquess who sits on this bench (Lord Londonderry), and although there may be some of us who would join in some portion of the criticism which the most rev. Primate has just addressed to the speech of the noble and learned Lord last night, I think the prevailing feeling in this House will be that a great addition has been made to our debating power and to the knowledge of the conditions with which we have to deal in this debate. Indeed, I could not help feeling, when the moving references were made from more than one quarter of the House to the debating loss which we had suffered by the removal of that great lawyer, Lord Halsbury, that if that loss represented a memorable sunset, so the advent of Lord Carson represented a notable dawn.84statusstatus838281807978THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: I have not had any communication with Mr. Michael Collins.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: Nor did I suggest for a moment that the noble Earl had.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: I beg the noble Marquess's pardon; that is what I understood him to say. But I think Lord Midleton has received satisfactory assurances from Mr. Arthur Griffith.THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND
: Hear, hear.THE EARL OF MIDLETON
94That by and by will make the music mute.""The little rift within the lute,rôle9392: But that hardly seems to me to be sufficient. I should have thought that the Government would not be satisfied with passing
94That by and by will make the music mute.""The little rift within the lute,rôle9392THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND
"In virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations."I … do solemnly swear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the Irish Free State as by law established and that I will be faithful to H.M. King George V., his heirs and successors by law, in virtue of the common citizenship a Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations.103102101100b(b99a(a
b(b99a(a7. The Government of the Irish Free State shall afford to His Majesty's Imperial Forces:—
b(b99a(a
b(b99a(a9897coup d'état.96"We are ready to confirm and ratify those Articles in order that the same may be established for over by the mutual consent of the peoples of Great Britain and Ireland."95"Whether it be from something in the soil or from the influence of the stars, yet so it is that no scheme formed for the advantage of this country ever prospers.": My Lords, I have now taken part in a great many debates on the subject of Ireland, and I have often thought with something of melancholy of what was said about Ireland by the poet Spenser in his description of the country in which he lived long, and which he knew intimately. What he said was this:—
"In virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations."I … do solemnly swear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the Irish Free State as by law established and that I will be faithful to H.M. King George V., his heirs and successors by law, in virtue of the common citizenship a Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations.103102101100b(b99a(a
b(b99a(a7. The Government of the Irish Free State shall afford to His Majesty's Imperial Forces:—
b(b99a(a
b(b99a(a9897coup d'état.96"We are ready to confirm and ratify those Articles in order that the same may be established for over by the mutual consent of the peoples of Great Britain and Ireland."95"Whether it be from something in the soil or from the influence of the stars, yet so it is that no scheme formed for the advantage of this country ever prospers."VISCOUNT FINLAY
113112"I put this subject before the House primarily as a question of social order."111110109volte face108107106105coup d'état104: My Lords, no one can have listened to the two speeches which have been delivered this afternoon
113112"I put this subject before the House primarily as a question of social order."111110109volte face108107106105coup d'état104VISCOUNT BRYCE
119émigrés118117116115114: My Lords, every Irishman must earnestly desire that this great experiment may lead to peace, but I confess as an Irish Unionist that I have listened to this debate with very mixed feelings. This may be the swan song of the Union, and for the last time I should like to express what I believe to be the conviction not only of myself but of every Unionist in Ireland that the
119émigrés118117116115114LORD ORANMORE AND BROWNE
122121120: My Lords, I shall occupy the attention of the House for a very few moments only, because Lord Carson and Lord Londonderry have put the case for Ulster so admirably before you. It will take very few minutes to say what I wish to say. I am glad to have an opportunity of expressing my detestation of this proposed Treaty. I feel that if this treaty of surrender is accepted by the Houses of Parliament it is the beginning of the break-up of the whole of the Empire. How can we expect to hold India or Egypt when those people realise that the weapon of murder and assassination is sufficient to free them from the bonds which tie them to Great Britain?122121120THE MARQUESS OF DUFFERIN AND AVA
124123: My Lords, I have no hesitation in saying that I cannot vote for the Amendment moved by the noble Duke. It is drafted to cover the case of loyalists in the south of Ireland, and I listened with attention to the noble Duke in order to see how he would prove that his Amendment would be of the smallest value to any resident in Ireland. My curiosity was not satisfied. I am myself unable to think how it could be of any value, and I shall therefore vote against his Amendment if he goes to a Division.124123THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
: No, no.A NOBLE LORD
128127I … do solemnly swear trio, faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the Irish Free State as by law established and that I will be faithful to H.M. King George V., his heirs and successors by law, in virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations126œgis125: I am glad to hear a contradiction. I have here an interesting collection of pamphlets that were issued from Ulster. I will not trouble your Lordships with them now, because I want to let the past bury its dead. But I have yet to see a speech delivered by a prominent Ulsterman that has been fair to all that was done in the south of Ireland to help you in the war. It was done in spite of the greatest difficulties, and—I say it with regret—in spite of great discouragement from the British War Office, who could have made things much easier.128127I … do solemnly swear trio, faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the Irish Free State as by law established and that I will be faithful to H.M. King George V., his heirs and successors by law, in virtue of the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain and her adherence to and membership of the group of nations forming the British Commonwealth of Nations126œgis125THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
"and if any community or any individual in Ireland feels, for instance, that his or their rights in respect of religion or religious education, as provided for in Article 17 of the Agreement, are infringed by any laws that may be passed in future in Ireland, their remedy lies in an appeal to the Privy Council.129: My Lords, I propose to intervene for a very short time in this debate, in order to get certain information which at present. I think, has not been given to your Lordships' House. As I listened to the speech of the noble Marquess who leads the House, I could not extract from that speech information on certain very important matters which are at present left to be discovered. The noble Marquess said that in the course of the Second Reading of the Bill certain things would be made known. I turn to the speech of the Prime Minister in the House of Commons, yesterday, and I find that he speaks as if there could be no question on the Second Reading of the Bill. As I understand the Prime Minister, the only thing which your Lordships' House and the Commons' House will have to do will be to sanction a cut and dried scheme of Constitution which has been prepared by the Irish representatives. If that is so, if our Bill is only to be a Bill of one clause scheduling a Constitution drafted by the Irish representatives, then to-day, or tomorrow, we commit ourselves to everything. The protest of Lord Midleton and the inquiries of other Peers will be fruitless. We shall have merely to accept or reject, and we shall have already pledged ourselves to accept, a Bill of one clause, embodying what has taken place in Ireland."and if any community or any individual in Ireland feels, for instance, that his or their rights in respect of religion or religious education, as provided for in Article 17 of the Agreement, are infringed by any laws that may be passed in future in Ireland, their remedy lies in an appeal to the Privy Council.129LORD PHILLIMORE
: Will the noble Marquess say where that appeal is mentioned in the provisions?LORD CARSON
ultra viresultra viresultra viresultra viresultra vires130: I do not know that it is mentioned in the provisions, but it is inherent in her status as a member of the British Commonwealth of Nations. There is given to her no more and no less than is conceded to them. If, however, there is any doubt about it can easily be made clear."
ultra viresultra viresultra viresultra viresultra vires130THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
134régime133132131: My Lords, your Lordships have listened to a great many speeches on this subject, and I should not venture to inflict myself upon you but for a very few moments. I think it is right that we whose homes are in Ireland should give some reason for whatever vote we may cast on this question, and that we should say something as to
134régime133132131THE EARL OF WICKLOW
: May I, on behalf of the noble Earl, Lord Desart, move the adjournment of the debate until to-morrow.THE MARQUESS OF SLIGO
: My Lords, I beg to move that the House do now adjourn until noon to-morrow.THE FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS (THE EARL OF CRAWFORD)
"The second stage will be that which is provided for in Article 17 of the Agreement, under which a Provisional Government is to be set up in Ireland during the period while the Constitution of the Free State is being drafted and set in motion. This will no doubt require some discussion, and will take up a certain amount of time. Legislation will not be required for that object—though it may be that when the Constitution is set up an Act of Indemnity may be called for in order to cover any informality that may have occurred."143142"There is far more friendly and neighbourly good feeling between Catholics and Protestants all over the south and centre of Ireland than your Lordships may be apt to believe from many statements that reach us from the newspapers."141140beau geste,139138"We have never expressed a determination to remain outside for all time. I can assure you that recent events have not stimulated those whom I represent to show any alacrity or any desire to enter a Parliament in Dublin. We have deliberately asked you to give us time to consider whether, after witnessing the establishment of a just and efficient administration in the south and west of Ireland, we may feel willing to co-operate. Speaking for myself, I do not hesitate to say that an efficient administration in the south and west of Ireland would go far to remove my objections to the establishment of a single Parliament for the whole of Ireland."137136: My Lords, I propose to detain your Lordships but a very short time, because I think everybody in the House is anxious to get to the period when we shall hear from the Lord Chancellor the explanations and answers which have been sought by many speakers in the course of this long debate. But if I intrude for a few moments, I think I have the excuse that I belong to a body of men who have their interests, their very homes, and everything they have more at stake, perhaps' than any who have spoken, or will speak, in this House."The second stage will be that which is provided for in Article 17 of the Agreement, under which a Provisional Government is to be set up in Ireland during the period while the Constitution of the Free State is being drafted and set in motion. This will no doubt require some discussion, and will take up a certain amount of time. Legislation will not be required for that object—though it may be that when the Constitution is set up an Act of Indemnity may be called for in order to cover any informality that may have occurred."143142"There is far more friendly and neighbourly good feeling between Catholics and Protestants all over the south and centre of Ireland than your Lordships may be apt to believe from many statements that reach us from the newspapers."141140beau geste,139138"We have never expressed a determination to remain outside for all time. I can assure you that recent events have not stimulated those whom I represent to show any alacrity or any desire to enter a Parliament in Dublin. We have deliberately asked you to give us time to consider whether, after witnessing the establishment of a just and efficient administration in the south and west of Ireland, we may feel willing to co-operate. Speaking for myself, I do not hesitate to say that an efficient administration in the south and west of Ireland would go far to remove my objections to the establishment of a single Parliament for the whole of Ireland."137136THE EARL OF DESART
179178177: My Lords, I would not trouble you this afternoon with a speech had it not been for the fact that I, as an Ulsterman. I cannot allow some remarks made by Lord Donoughmore to pass by without comment. Yesterday the noble Earl quoted my noble and learned friend, Lord Carson, as saying that the Oath of Allegiance meant nothing. I gather from the noble Earl's speech that he left it to be inferred that this Oath of Allegiance was the same Oath as every member of this House takes. We all know that the Oath of Allegiance to which my noble and learned friend, Lord Carson, referred was the Oath of Allegiance found in this Treaty. The noble Earl asked why it was that the Sinn Fein members in another place had refused to take the Oath of Allegiance in that House, and he very properly gave the
179178177VISCOUNT MASSEREENE AND FERRARD
155154"The Oath is objectionable. It is the real crux. It is objectionable only because it implies association with the British Empire. In itself it is harmless, and as its primary allegiance is to the Irish Free State it is as weak an Oath as could be devised. But it was obvious from the beginning of the negotiations that the Oath of Allegiance, or association, would be the end of it; and this is an Oath of Association far more than it is an Oath of Allegiance. This Treaty will not settle the Irish question. Bier destiny is to be an independent nation, not a member associated or otherwise with any Empire. The Irish Republican Brotherhood, which has been the political sheet anchor of Ireland since Stephens founded it more than sixty years ago, will go on.""We stand with all our resources at the disposal of ally movement, whether at the moment led by capitalists, by bourgeois democrats or by labourites, which attempts to destroy or injure British Imperialism in Ireland or elsewhere."de jure.153"invitation to the Irish representatives to consider how association with the nations of the British Commonwealth can best be reconciled with Irish national aspirations makes it necessary to consider how far the members of the group
de jure.153Manchester Guardian."The document which has been signed by our five compatriots, is but another milestone on the long road of struggle to Irish freedom. … The time for rejoicing and thanksgiving will come when Ireland again enters the circle of sovereign and independent nations."formula152151150"They are ringing their bells now; they will be wringing their hands soon.": My Lords, it was with very great regret that I heard from the Earl of Donoughmore last night, and from the Earl of Desart this morning, that they and the noble Earl, Lord Midleton, were going to vote for the Government to ratify the Treaty which is to betray their fellow loyalists in the south and west of Ireland. They gave as their reason for doing, so that there is a chance that it might produce peace. How long are we going to tread this path of surrender and betrayal, seeking a peace which we cannot find? must take this opportunity of protesting, on behalf of the large majority of the loyalists in the south and west, that although the noble Earl, Lord Nidleton, speaks, and rightly and justly so, with such great weight and force to your Lordships' House, he cannot claim to represent the views of the vast majority of the loyalists in the south and west of Ireland.155154"The Oath is objectionable. It is the real crux. It is objectionable only because it implies association with the British Empire. In itself it is harmless, and as its primary allegiance is to the Irish Free State it is as weak an Oath as could be devised. But it was obvious from the beginning of the negotiations that the Oath of Allegiance, or association, would be the end of it; and this is an Oath of Association far more than it is an Oath of Allegiance. This Treaty will not settle the Irish question. Bier destiny is to be an independent nation, not a member associated or otherwise with any Empire. The Irish Republican Brotherhood, which has been the political sheet anchor of Ireland since Stephens founded it more than sixty years ago, will go on.""We stand with all our resources at the disposal of ally movement, whether at the moment led by capitalists, by bourgeois democrats or by labourites, which attempts to destroy or injure British Imperialism in Ireland or elsewhere."de jure.153"invitation to the Irish representatives to consider how association with the nations of the British Commonwealth can best be reconciled with Irish national aspirations makes it necessary to consider how far the members of the group
de jure.153Manchester Guardian."The document which has been signed by our five compatriots, is but another milestone on the long road of struggle to Irish freedom. … The time for rejoicing and thanksgiving will come when Ireland again enters the circle of sovereign and independent nations."formula152151150"They are ringing their bells now; they will be wringing their hands soon."LORD FARNHAM
156: My Lords, I had not intended to intrude in this debate, and I will not delay the House for more than two or three minutes, but there is one voice that has hardly been heard at all, and that is the voice of such as I pronounce myself to be, the Dominionist. I ventured some eighteen months ago, greatly daring, to introduce a Bill into your Lordships' House very much on the lines of the Agreement that is now under consideration. Having had my chance on that occasion of stating my case, I am not going to attempt to re-argue the matter now, and in following the noble Lord who has just spoken with such energy and conviction, I will only say that his speech will take a great deal of answering, and more time than I can venture to claim from your Lordships on this occasion. I will not, therefore, attempt to answer the arguments of the noble Lord.156LORD MONTEAGLE OF BRANDON
: The noble Marquess will excuse me. He has stated my opinion quite correctly, but he does not pretend that I went so far as to differentiate in any way between the leaders, or that I am satisfied that Ireland should be handed over to the present leaders. I assume that the whole people of Ireland will be concerned with the working of this Agreement, and not the leaders only.THE EARL OF DONOUGHMORE
215214: My Lords, as the mover of the Amendment, I should not have said anything at this stage but for one or two observations which were made by the noble and learned
215214THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND
peccavimea culpa183182181180: My Lords, I understand that there is still a little time to fill up before the leaders are prepared to take part in the debate, and, if no one else wishes, I will do so. I think it may not be out of place that a few words should be said from the point of view of the ordinary Englishman, more particularly because this Irish question is far more a question for the British Empire than it is an Irish question. That is a point of view which is too often lost sight of. In your Lordships' House it is too much our custom, if I may say so with all respect, to leave so-called Irish debates to the Peers of Ireland—to leave the matter entirely to them. I have always thought, and I think so more than ever to-clay, that the ordinary Englishman ought to say what he thinks about these questions.peccavimea culpa183182181180LORD AMPTHILL
: False, every one of them.LORD CARSON
: Perhaps the noble and learned Viscount would allow me to say—since he says I made no contribution—that I accepted last year, at his suggestion and at the suggestion of his colleagues, the Bill of 1920.LORD CARSON
: That is not so.LORD CARSON
: Certain corpses, not courses.LORD CARSON
: All right.LORD CARSON
: All I said was that I hoped the noble and learned Lord did not mind cheap gibes.LORD CARSON
: So are von and the Sinn Feiners.Loan CARSON
160159"How beautifully it has all been managed ! The stage management is one of the most perfect things I ever recollect. The chorus in the papers, frantic telegrams to every Prime Minister to send back another telegram in order that we might have it published here."158157: My Lords, at this late hour in the debate it is not easy to contribute any additional argument in favour of the Treaty that we have been considering. Those who have had the responsibility of conducting the debate in its favour, especially those on the Government side, have placed the matter fairly and convincingly before the House, and I am only anxious now to place on record a few words with which I shall, with your Lordships' permission, occupy the House for a few moments.160159"How beautifully it has all been managed ! The stage management is one of the most perfect things I ever recollect. The chorus in the papers, frantic telegrams to every Prime Minister to send back another telegram in order that we might have it published here."158157LORD MORRIS
199formula198197: My Lords, my first task should be to apologise to your Lordships for having absented myself for more than an hour in the middle of the day from my place upon the Woolsack. I had understood it was the proposal of your Lordships to adjourn for the luncheon interval, and I, therefore, thought myself at liberty to keep an old-standing engagement. My apologies are particularly due to the noble and learned Lord, Lord Sumner, whose speech, for the reason indicated, I was so unfortunate as to miss.199formula198197THE LORD CHANCELLOR (VISCOUNT BIRKENHEAD)
: I did not hear tie interruption; it is not very usual—THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: That is an issue. But even the noble and learned Lord I suppose will agree that we as a Government—in the same way as lie, if he formed a Government, and as Lord Salisbury, if he formed a Government—have to consider certain courses.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: And under the Act of 1920, with the single exception of the Boundaries Commission, those for whom the noble and learned Lord stands will retain everything which that Bill gave.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
204203: In this House, too, and in another place also, and we have it now explained by Lord Londonderry that there is no grievance. He has made it with the candour I should have expected front him, and we know now that no grievance upon this point is experienced by those who are representative leaders of Ulster. But where is the analogy in the circumstances of to-day as compared with the circumstances that existed when I made those speeches to which attention has been called? Lord Carson has spoken of treachery of members of the Government. He has spoken of their violation of their solemn obligations.204203THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I distinctly understood the noble Marquess to contemplate the risk of a military invasion of Northern Ireland. I do not know why he should take exception to my observation. I am dealing with what he very plainly said. How does that matter stand? It is quite true that on paper you cannot afford security or protection to Northern Ireland. You cannot protect any community on paper. The noble Marquess says that he would not trust this Government to afford protection to Northern Ireland if she were invaded in military force by the Irish Free State. The noble Marquess is very free in his invective at the expense of the honour of a Government which contains probably the most distinguished member of his own family. I have listened in this House on many occasions when the noble Marquess freely indulged in reflections on the honour and respectability and general truthfulness of the Government.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
202d.s.s.201200: The noble Marquess does not reflect upon our honour, but he has observed that we are frequently making pledges which we do not carry out, and therefore he will not attach the slightest importance to any pledge we give now. I am very much indebted to him for the distinction he has made. My answer to this apprehension on the part of the noble Marquess that this is not an obligation on the part of any Government, is that it is an absolute and necessary obligation im-
202d.s.s.201200THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I hear that with the greatest possible pleasure, and it only shows how unfortunate is the self-elected champion of the North of Ireland, Lord Salisbury—THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: I know perfectly well what the noble Marquess said and it is perfectly true that he did not touch on the matter of the income Tax. He confined himself to the fiscal question, but the case has been made here and elsewhere, and it has been made one of the gravest articles in the indictment against the Government.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: Would the noble and learned Lord desire me to give way to him? It is customary in this House for only one speaker to address the House at a time. To continue, one noble and learned Lord alleges that we are treacherous scoundrels for entering into negotiations at all, and the other is of opinion that we are incorrigible fools for not having undertaken them two years ago.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
210"If the South and West would come forward to-day to me—or if there was anybody here who could say it for them—and say: 'You and I are members of the same country (I will not say nation, for Ireland never was a nation) and we each love our country; let us each do our best, starting in good temper, to govern in these Parliaments the district:, which are entrusted to them,' I would grasp his hand firmly, and I would say with all my heart: I accept it as a settlement and, what is more, as I have said before, I would look forward to a very short time elapsing before under these conditions, we would be more likely to unite in one Parliament.'"209: The noble and learned Lord fixes his particular date in 1918. Any other noble Lord can, of course, take any other date. It is a perfectly safe process. Nobody can ever be certain of anything in these matters, except that there are in the minds of men moods and in the affairs of men moments. Is it then certain that we have the mood and the moment now? What is going on in Dublin now I cannot tell you. It may be that we have not even now taken the right moment. All I can say is that we must be taken to have made the best exercise of I judgment in our power.210"If the South and West would come forward to-day to me—or if there was anybody here who could say it for them—and say: 'You and I are members of the same country (I will not say nation, for Ireland never was a nation) and we each love our country; let us each do our best, starting in good temper, to govern in these Parliaments the district:, which are entrusted to them,' I would grasp his hand firmly, and I would say with all my heart: I accept it as a settlement and, what is more, as I have said before, I would look forward to a very short time elapsing before under these conditions, we would be more likely to unite in one Parliament.'"209THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: Yes, I heard it. The noble and learned Lord is a practised adept at this species of retort. I do not object, but it is interesting to see these two noble and learned Lords, who take such divergent views, making common cause.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
208207206: We have to consider alternative courses. What are those courses? There are two, and two only. Either we were to invite no conference, and were to attempt mare successfully to carry out our policy of coercion and repression, or we were to take the course which in fact we have adopted. The noble Duke, the Duke of Northumberland, has no doubt which course we ought to adopt. In the mind of the noble Duke every soldier is a super-min, every politician is either a rogue or a fool, and every working man is a Bolshevik, actual or potential. The noble Duke has been stalking England for the last six months—avoiding, indeed, some processes of labour by always delivering the same speech—and explaining now to a Committee in the House of Commons, now to an extremely unconvinced meeting of his own neighbours, now to another audience elsewhere, that the whole of England is about to take the earliest opportunity of turning Bolshevist and destroying our Government by the process of violent revolution.208207206THE LORD CHANCELLOR
212211: To be perfectly honest, I thought it did come from Sir James Craig, but it was equally creditable to lain in either case. He realised that this old, bloody, unhappy quarrel cannot be carried on indefinitely, that some time or other there must come peace; and of those who criticise us most bitterly to-day I would ask this plain question—Is your alternative any other than this, that we shall now resume the war, that we shall take and break this people, as we can with our military strength take and break them? And, when we have done that, how shall we be any better off? Shall we be any nearer a settlement than when Lord Salisbury, if he becomes Prime Minister to-morrow, has raised the Army, has carried fire and sword into every village in Ireland, and has finally brought back a new laurel to add to
212211THE LORD CHANCELLOR
213: My Lords, I should perhaps have said, but I had much else to say, that I have been asked, I think it is, 37 Questions by different noble Lords in the course of the debate, and the whole of my speech would naturally have been devoted to answering those Questions had I undertaken the task. I intended to say, but I forgot it, that if any noble Lord who desires a more precise answer than the general lines of my speech afford to any question, would be good enough to write me I would gladly make him the best answer that was in my power and, of course, in a form which he would be entitled to treat as being as public and authoritative as anything I have said in this House.213THE LORD CHANCELLOR
: The noble Marquess will understand nothing of the kind. That would be the advice which we shall undoubtedly give to Parliament, and when flat advice is considered and pronounced upon by Parliament the arguments in favour of that advice and those against it will be stated. Parliament, of course, can do anything. Parliament can accept the noble Duke's Amendment now. Parliament can accept an Amendment from the Earl of Midleton at a later stage. We have no power to sterilise Parliament.THE LORD CHANCELLOR
149"There arise time and again in our minds feelings of burning resentment against the unspeakable indignity that has been inflicted upon the Empire we love."148147"The heroism of the Irish people, soldier and civilian alike, has won for them a complete victory over British brutality."146145"Until an arrangement has been made between the British and Irish Governments whereby the Irish Free State undertakes her own coastal defence, the defence by sea of Great Britain and Ireland shall be undertaken by His Majesty's Imperial Forces."144: My Lords, only the very strongest convictions would have induced me, as a very junior member of the House, to intervene in this very important debate—perhaps one of the most important that has ever occurred within the walls of this Chamber. I sincerely wish that I could join in the general chorus of praise which has been raised by those who support the Government, but this peace settlement came to me as a most complete surprise, because it flagrantly violated many of the pledges of the Prime Minister, some of them quite recent. So far as I can see the directors of the Red Army have obtained almost everything they demanded, except a Republic, and they have been placed in a position to declare a Republic whenever they happen to see fit.149"There arise time and again in our minds feelings of burning resentment against the unspeakable indignity that has been inflicted upon the Empire we love."148147"The heroism of the Irish people, soldier and civilian alike, has won for them a complete victory over British brutality."146145"Until an arrangement has been made between the British and Irish Governments whereby the Irish Free State undertakes her own coastal defence, the defence by sea of Great Britain and Ireland shall be undertaken by His Majesty's Imperial Forces."144LORD SYDENHAM
: The intention on Monday, if nothing happens in the interval, is to move the prorogation, and Parliament should meet again for the new session at the end of January. January 31 is, I think, the contemplated date.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: That will depend on the decision of the Government in relation to the news we receive.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
: My Lords, I propose, presently, to move, for reasons which have been publicly stated, that the House do adjourn until Monday next. I cannot make the Motion at this moment because we have to go through the stage of dispatching our Address to the Sovereign and receiving his reply. I, therefore, suggest that business be suspended during the next half-hour, or whatever may be the period required, and at the end of that time the Motion will be made that the House adjourn until Monday next at the usual time.THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON)
: The nature of the business of Monday will depend entirely on what happens in the interval. The reasons for moving the adjournment until Monday are, as your Lordships will conjecture, that we need to know what is happening at Dublin in the interval. So far as I know, if matters go well in Dublin, no business will be submitted to this House and we shall be able to prorogue. I cannot give a more definite answer at the moment.THE MARQUESS CURZON OF KEDLESTON
176statusstatus.status175174173172171"The Irish Free State shall assume liability for the service of the Public Debt of the United. Kingdom as existing at the date hereof and towards the payment of war pensions as existing at that date in such proportion as may be fair and equitable, having regard to any just. claims on the part of Ireland by way of set or counterclaim, the amount of such sums twin, determined in default of agreement by the arbitration of one or more independent persons being citizens of the British Empire."170minus"If the Government of the Irish Free State establishes and maintains a military defence force, the establishments thereof shall not exceed in size such proportion of the military establish ments maintained in Great Britain as that which the population of Ireland bears to the population of Great Britain,"169fait accompli168167166165s.164voile face,163162Nune Dimittis,161: My Lords, I understand it is for the convenience of Ministers' arrangements that this debate should continue, even although, owing to circumstances over which so many noble Lords have no control, it is necessary that the benches should be less fully occupied for the next half hour than anyone addressing the House from this box could have wished to be the case. And, as the last thing in the world that I should desire would be to put upon the Lord Chancellor, who will carry the burden of Atlas in closing this debate, any manner of inconvenience by suggesting that there should be a postponement of the time when his entry into the discussion will take place, I respectfully offer myself as a sacrifice to the luncheon half hour, which must be filled by somebody, and may as well be filled by an unimportant member of the House like myself.176statusstatus.status175174173172171"The Irish Free State shall assume liability for the service of the Public Debt of the United. Kingdom as existing at the date hereof and towards the payment of war pensions as existing at that date in such proportion as may be fair and equitable, having regard to any just. claims on the part of Ireland by way of set or counterclaim, the amount of such sums twin, determined in default of agreement by the arbitration of one or more independent persons being citizens of the British Empire."170minus"If the Government of the Irish Free State establishes and maintains a military defence force, the establishments thereof shall not exceed in size such proportion of the military establish ments maintained in Great Britain as that which the population of Ireland bears to the population of Great Britain,"169fait accompli168167166165s.164voile face,163162Nune Dimittis,161LORD SUMNER
: My complaint was that you did not do it in 1918, and I have heard nothing to explain it except that murder has taken place since.LORD BUCKMASTER
: Might I ask the noble and learned Lord to be good enough to answer a vital question which I put yesterday, before we go to a Division? In what form will this Agreement be submitted to Parliament? Will it be submitted to Parliament in a form in which we can move Amendments to the new Constitution, or will it be submitted simply in the form of a question on which we are to say Aye or No? That is my first question. And, if I may trouble the noble and learned Viscount with a second, to whom will the Government which is to be set up in Ireland, if we pass this Agreement and if it is ratified in Dublin, be responsible—to this Government or to the Viceroy?THE EARL OF MIDLETON
: I think I ought to draw attention to this, that the invitation came from Mr. de Valera, and not from Sir James Craig, as the noble and learned Lord seems to imply.THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
: And their sons murdered.THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
: There is no grievance amongst Ulster citizens on that score.THE MARQUESS OF LONDONDERRY
: I am sorry to interrupt the noble and learned Viscount. I expressly said that I did not reflect upon their honour, but that they found circumstances so strong that their assurances could not be relied upon, and that is historical.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: In the Press.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: The noble and learned Viscount is hardly ever accurate in his speeches. I did not mention Income Tax, or any taxation whatever except Customs. I spoke of a preferential barrier or preferential duty.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
192191"I take this obligation freely and without any mental reservation, or purpose of evasion.""I…do solemnly swear that I do not or shall not yield voluntary support to any pretended Government authority or power outside Ireland, hostile or inimical thereto, and I do further swear to the best of my ability I will support and defend the Government of Dail Eireann against all enemies, foreign or domestic, and I will true allegiance to the same"—190"…be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty.":—and no provision whatever is made for them in the Articles of Agreement. Surely that is a shame. Surely we cannot think of that without a feeling of mortification, that we as Englishmen, represented by the Government—for they are our Government; it is the people of England who have put them there—have done nothing for these loyalists. They are Left absolutely in the lurch, so far as this Agreement is concerned. No doubt my noble friend Lord Midleton has got an assurance from a Mr. Griffith. I do not know what the loyalists would have Clone without Lord Midleton. This is the last thing that they can hang on to, but it is not the same as having it in the Agreement. That your Lordships should be asked to confirm and ratify an Agreement with such an injustice standing on the face of it is surely asking too much, even from a subservient-Parliament and from the House of Lords, whose very existence is threatened at the present moment.192191"I take this obligation freely and without any mental reservation, or purpose of evasion.""I…do solemnly swear that I do not or shall not yield voluntary support to any pretended Government authority or power outside Ireland, hostile or inimical thereto, and I do further swear to the best of my ability I will support and defend the Government of Dail Eireann against all enemies, foreign or domestic, and I will true allegiance to the same"—190"…be faithful and bear true allegiance to His Majesty."THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
188187186: I hope my noble friend is correct, and it is
188187186THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: I was speaking of Southern Ireland.THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
196195194"I agree that moral compulsion of Ulster is nearly as bad as any other.""It contains three things which we all insist should be maintained—allegiance to the Crown, the safety of the Empire, and no compulsion—""That is the feeling in which I would ask you to support the amendment."193: Was there ever anything more dramatic than the speech of my noble and learned friend two nights ago? Those assurances, which he told us he got repeatedly from the Government, that the terms to Ulster were a permanent settlement, and upon the face of which assurances your Lordships' House passed the Home Rule Bill into law — and I dare say the other House of Parliament: I know nothing about them—within
196195194"I agree that moral compulsion of Ulster is nearly as bad as any other.""It contains three things which we all insist should be maintained—allegiance to the Crown, the safety of the Empire, and no compulsion—""That is the feeling in which I would ask you to support the amendment."193THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
185: My Lords, I am very grateful to my noble friend who has just sat down for having limited his very interesting speech in order to meet to some extent my own convenience. It is a compliment which has been paid to me, and one which, I most submissively assure your Lordships, I do not deserve. I was anxious, however, to say a few words to your Lordships upon this very critical occasion before you go to a Division. I think that the Houses of Parliament have, if I may say so, some reason to complain of the precipitation with which the concluding phases of this difficult crisis have been hurried through by His Majesty's Government.185THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
in tolo: Are we to understand, then, that the only liberty left to Parliament will be to assent to or reject the arrangement in toloTHE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: if things do not go well in Dublin, what does the noble Marquess suggest we shall do?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: May I ask hat business there will be on Monday?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: As I understand there will be no prorogation even then, the session will go on into the New Year. Or will Parliament be prorogued and a new session opened next January? May I also ask on what day we may expect Parliament to reassemble next year if, according to his view, things go well at Dublin?THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
: My Lords, when, on Friday last, I suggested that your Lordships should adjourn until to-day, it was with the expectation that in the interval a decision would have been arrived at in the parliament that is sitting in Dublin with regard to the Agreement that was discussed by your Lordships last week. It appears from our latest information that those expectations are not likely to be realized, at any rate for the moment, and that the discussions in Dublin may go on for some days, and, in fact, may not even conclude until the eve of Chritmas. In these circumstances it has seemed to the government that it is hardly fair to ask your Lordships, particularly at this season of the year, to remain in London, or to suggest to parliament that it should adjourn from day to day. We have, therefore, decided to recommend that Parliament should be prorogued. On the other hand, if any situation arises in the near future demanding the summoning of Parliament we shall not hesitate to take the requisite action.THE SECRETARYOF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS (THE MARQUESS CURZONSOF KEDLESTON)
220: My Lords, I took no part whatever in the debate last week, because I was physically unable to do so, but on the last occasion in this House when there was a discussion as to whether it should be prorogued or not, I expressed a very strong opinion that it would be wiser and better to adjourn than to prorogue. I took that view because I thought Ireland at that moment was perhaps in a more critical position than it had ever been in our time. To-day, especially as it appears quite possible, that the Treaty submitted to them by the Government and agreed to by both Houses of Parliament may now be rejected, what is going to be the course? The noble Marquess has told us that Parliament is to be prorogued. I should have thought, in all the circumstances, that perhaps a short adjournment would have been the
220VISCOUNT CHAPLIN
: My Lords, I very much sympathise with the observations that have just fallen from the noble Viscount, Lord Chaplin. I have expressed similar views myself. I think that until a decision is come to in Dublin it would be much better for Parliament to adjourn from day to day rather than to prorogue. No one can tell what may happen, and I cannot help thinking that something might arise that would make it very undesirable that neither House should be sitting and that there should be no opportunity of asking for information or expressing any views. It may be too late to carry out the wishes of the noble Viscount, but I thought I must express my concurrence with the views to which he has given expression.LORD SOUTHWARK
: My Lords, I did not intend to say anything on this occasion, but I feel I must rise to say that I entirely agree with the Government in the course they are taking. The more quietly this situation is accepted the better. No good purpose can be served by our fussing over it. Parliament can be called back in about five days, if it is necessary to call it together, but speaking for myself, I think the greater probability is that it will not be necessary to take any action unless it be—and I hope there will not be anything of the kind—action of an executive kind. Anyhow, I see no reason why we should not prorogue now. Five days will be quite a short enough period to enable us to come together again if necessary. In the meantime, I think the more quietly the situation is taken the better.VISCOUNT HALDANE
