 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs (Dr. Liam Fox) : Bilateral assistance to Cyprus totalled £473,000 in 1995–96. Assistance from the European Union was £450,000 in 1994, of which the UK share was some 16 per cent. Those are the latest years for which figures are available.
 Dr. Fox : The missile deal is extremely unwelcome. It dangerously raises the stakes in an already tense area. Equally, the Turkish threats are unacceptable. All parties must look for ways to reduce tension, not add to it, and I am sure that that view is shared by all hon. Members.
 Dr. Fox : The Government do not recognise the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus—only Turkey does. There can be no change in our policy of maintaining balanced contacts with both communities. My right hon. and learned Friend the Foreign Secretary deserves praise for his recent initiative in trying to take forward peace in Cyprus. Only by a negotiated settlement and equal movement on both sides can peace be achieved.
 Dr. Fox : We are looking at the 10 points that my right hon. and learned Friend the Foreign Secretary made in taking the peace process forward. If we are to achieve a settlement, both Governments must reduce the tension. The No.1 move needed at the moment is for both sides to get away from the dangerous rhetoric of recent weeks and to start to reduce, not increase, the tension. We should like to see fewer arms on both sides in Cyprus than there are at present.
 Dr. Liam Fox : The causes of the crisis in Rwanda are complex and go back many generations. However, the report, "Joint Evaluation of Emergency Assistance to Rwanda", did not conclude that previous development assistance was a primary cause of the crisis in Rwanda.
 Dr. Fox : It is certainly true that the report's historical analysis attaches some blame to ethnic policies during the colonial period, although the United Kingdom was not primarily involved in that area. Our aid to Rwanda is of a humanitarian nature, and we should remember that people in Rwanda—regardless of which ethnic group they belong to—may be starving. Our primary objective in Rwanda is to deal with its humanitarian needs.
 Dr. Fox : I might have expected that the hon. Gentleman, rather than concentrating on the £175 million bilateral humanitarian aid that the United Kingdom has given since 1994, would try to find the single negative aspect in Britain's involvement in the Rwanda crisis. Customs and Excise is currently considering whether there is a case for more prosecutions, and I am therefore unable to answer his specific question. Should further details emerge, I will write to him. Instead of the pathetic sniping we have just heard, it would be nice if, for once, the Opposition were to praise the United Kingdom for the help it has provided in the Great Lakes crisis, and to praise our non-governmental organisations and those who put their lives at risk.
 Dr. Fox : I should have thought that it was self-evident that the political situation in Rwanda is holding back any economic development. There has been much economic movement in neighbouring countries such as Tanzania or Uganda, in which there has been some political co-operation—which, sadly, we have not seen in some of the other countries of the Great Lakes region. I hope that the Governments in the region will co-operate to provide a stable political environment in which economic development can occur in Rwanda. Clearly there must be a regional solution; we cannot impose one from outside, through financial institutions or by other means.
 Dr. Liam Fox : Britain has committed £3 million bilaterally since January 1996 to help Tanzania to cope. We are ready to do more.
 Dr. Fox : I returned last week from a trip to Tanzania. I discussed the refugee problem with the Tanzanian Government, whom the House should congratulate on the efficient and sensitive way in which they have dealt with the Rwandan refugees, given the size and the nature of the problem. We have already provided substantial aid and we are willing to do more. The problem that the Tanzanian Government identified was not a matter of need as such, but of access to many refugee groups. The Government are constantly looking at that problem. We have an open dialogue with Tanzania and if the Tanzanian Government ask for specific help, we shall certainly consider it.
 Dr. Liam Fox : More than £14 million of gross public expenditure was provided to the Great Lakes region in the financial year 1995–96. Comparable information on multilateral expenditure is not readily available.
 Dr. Fox : Indeed, human rights problems cause us great concern not only in Rwanda but in Burundi. The perpetrators of genocide must be brought to trial. We are looking at events in Rwanda to make sure that the trials
 15
 Dr. Fox : Of course we shall try to do that as far as we can, but it would be quite wrong and improper for me to suggest to the House that we have that degree of control over where the aid goes once it has been disbursed. We hope that the organisations to which we provide aid will make the best use of it. We should commend the courage of the NGOs, especially those who have been willing to put their lives in danger to use the aid that we supply for the greater good. We are grateful that people are still willing to take that risk for humanitarian reasons.
 Dr. Fox : While I am always willing to take part in discussions that I believe will be fruitful, our position has been made quite clear in UNESCO and I need say nothing further on that. Much aid is focused on the internal structure in Rwanda. Since 1994, £127 million of European Union money—of which £18.5 million was United Kingdom money—has been given for human rights, health, education, environment and other projects in Rwanda. The Government have a good record on supporting education projects in Rwanda. It is certainly nothing to feel sorry about. We are proud of our record since 1992.
 Dr. Liam Fox : We have received a number of representations from hon. Members and others.
 Dr. Fox : I really did not think that any Opposition Member would have the nerve to say that today. The Labour policy document of October 1996 says:
 "Labour will start to reverse the decline in UK aid spending."
 Dr. Liam Fox : We are supporting efforts to improve the teaching of English in secondary schools and at the Institute of Languages.
 Dr. Fox : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for that question. I am also grateful for the fact that schoolchildren in his constituency, following his visit to Angola, raised £500 and donated it to the Chiva primary school near Huambo for classroom furniture and educational materials. We currently have two English language teaching projects, costing £900,000. It is important for us as a nation to recognise that whatever the colonial legacy in terms of language, English is the international business language and the language of the future. It is important for developing nations to learn English if they are to trade successfully in the future.
 Madam Speaker : Order. I think that Mr. Faulds is making it clear that he also caught my eye on that occasion and was very supportive.  [Interruption.]
 Madam Speaker : I have not heard from any Minister, and certainly not from the Home Secretary, that he is seeking to make a statement later today, although, of course, the House will be sitting and any Minister is able to make a statement later in the day, as the hon. Gentleman is aware.
 Madam Speaker : The hon. Gentleman is quite correct; I would refer any Member who is interested to page 376 of "Erskine May", where it reminds us that it is disorderly to
 "use the Queen's name to influence a decision"— 22
 Madam Speaker : Order. The right hon. Gentleman is probably aware that, once I have given a ruling, I do not accept further points of order on the subject. I have nothing further to add to what I have already said. If he can make a different point, I will of course hear it.
 Madam Speaker : Now who is rewriting the constitution?
 Madam Speaker : It seems to me that the right hon. Gentleman is trying to involve the Speaker of the House in party political exchanges. I am not prepared to be so involved. I have given my ruling and I stand by it.
 Madam Speaker : With permission, I shall put together the motions relating to delegated legislation.
 Miss Emma Nicholson : Will the Minister inform the House how much of his Department's bilateral aid programme has been dedicated to education? Education in Rwanda touches only the 8 per cent. of the population who are literate, despite the fact, of which the Minister does not appear to be aware, that for the past two and a half years the Rwandan Cabinet has been a coalition, elected from all parts of society, and a very good Government. None the less, our Government are still not supporting UNESCO through multilateral aid, despite the wonderful work of the organisation there. Will the Minister discuss the matter with UNESCO's deputy director-general, Professor Maurizio Iaccarino, who will be in London this week?
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : I am not going to rule on hypothetical suggestions.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : As I understand it, it is open to the Government to make any necessary changes—either at a later stage here or possibly elsewhere.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : I think that my point must remain the same.
 Mr. Beith : Will the Minister confirm that it has been the Government's practice to consult the Opposition parties beforehand on every announcement affecting or concerning the royal family, so as not to embroil the royal family in any political controversy? Will he explain the thinking behind the refusal to accept any element of business support for the project? Surely we have passed through the days when it was fashionable to disparage those in trade. Are the Government not acting rather like one of the Minister's former hon. Friends towards one of his right hon. Friends, who referred to him as the sort of person who had to buy his own furniture?
 Mr. Williams : I am sure, Madam Speaker, that you will see my point to be an extension. I accept entirely your ruling that one must not use Her Majesty's name in such matters. Is not it also part of the rule that one should not embroil the Crown in party political disputes in the House—which is a wider point? Was not what happened on Wednesday a calculated and deliberate attempt to do just that on the eve of an election? Is not the matter even more serious, given that the statement last week could not have been made without the Prime Minister's consent? If what I have put forward is a rule of the House, should not the Prime Minister therefore come to the House to explain his conspiracy in breaching that rule?
 Mr. Williams : It is an extension of the point.
 Mr. Alan Williams  (Swansea, West) : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker—
 Mr. Allan Rogers  (Rhondda) : I listened carefully to the hon. Gentleman, and it seems to me that he is generalising from specific situations. I was brought up in a coal-mining valley and was the youngest of 12 children. I went to a grammar school, but my older siblings were not able to do so because my parents could not afford it. The standards in the grammar school were such that many people went on to Oxford and Cambridge, became highly qualified and moved up in the professions.
 Mr. Alun Michael  (Cardiff, South and Penarth) : I congratulate the Minister on his approach and on his willingness to listen to other hon. Members' arguments. That is extremely helpful to the atmosphere of debate. The relationship between offences committed abroad, which are listed in schedule 2, and offences committed in this country, which are primarily listed in schedule 1, is extremely important. Is it the case that offences listed in schedule 2—those committed abroad—which the schedule brings within the ambit of United Kingdom law, will therefore require registration in the same way as offences committed in the UK under schedule 1? I note that schedule 2 is more narrowly drawn and I understand the reasons for that, but should there not be a requirement for the registration of offences dealt with under UK law?
 Mr. Alun Michael  (Cardiff, South and Penarth) : I welcome the Bill, and give an assurance that we will work with the Government to get it through as quickly as possible—although I hope that we can improve it in some respects during the process. We promise to do what we can to work positively, particularly in Committee. 34
 Mr. Michael : My hon. Friend makes an important point about the way in which information about paedophiles is exchanged between countries. Access from people overseas to the register is different from access by British NGOs. It is a sensible point to consider in Committee, and I hope that the Minister, who said that he would listen to points made during the debate, will consider that one. I look forward to discussing the point in Committee. "Our respondents told the police they'd committed between them some four thousand eight hundred offences, but in truth, as the survey shows, the total was nearer fifty thousand. We also asked them how long they'd got away with it before they were caught and these are fairly typical examples. This man, nine a half years, this man fifteen, this man nearly twenty, and this one a staggering thirty-two." 36 "A Child Sexual Offenders Register will assist in the protection of children, but it must be co-ordinated with other measures which will offer a more complete package of protection. For example, there must be improved vetting procedures linked to a public education campaign about child sexual abusers." "whilst the Bill's purpose is to be welcomed, it can only form a very limited part of a much more comprehensive response to child sexual abuse. The majority of children are not abused by convicted offenders and that in the minority of cases where prosecution follows the disclosure of abuse, the rate of convictions remain disturbingly low."
 Mr. Michael : I am certainly not asking for that at this stage. The Government left that as an open question for the future, and there is enough to be done at this time in targeting convicted abusers. There is considerable evidence that many convicted people have a string of offences over a long time. Therefore, some of the most dangerous abusers are in that category.
 Mr. Michael : The Minister's remarks confirm the Government's view—which is shared by hon. Members on both sides of the House—on how far we should proceed now, and leaves open the possibility of linking and developing information in records in future, when more experience has been gained. 38 "sole or main residence in the United Kingdom". 39
 Mr. Andrew F. Bennett  (Denton and Reddish) : I shall try to be brief. I am concerned that, although hon. Members appear to be enthusiastic about the legislation, they are not granting it the means of success. Page ii of the explanatory and financial memorandum states:
 "There will not be any significant financial burden on public expenditure arising from the Bill. Any additional costs will be met from within existing resources." 59
 Mr. Bennett : I am not convinced that the resources are available, but I want to develop the argument. It will take police time to process new information, and people will turn up at police stations only if the police take action against those who do not bother to show. That involves enforcement. A voluntary register will not work: the register will work only if it is enforced, and that will involve extra resources. 60
 Mr. Faulds : Would the hon. Gentleman agree that perhaps the more relevant question would be how much assistance has been given to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which the Greek regime has prevented from happening? But would he also agree that the provocations on the green line, the UN separating border, have been by the Greek Cypriots because no other forces apart from the UN are supposed to enter that area?
 Mr. Andrew Mackinlay  (Thurrock) : My hon. Friend might as well talk to a rice pudding.
 Mr. Andrew Robathan  (Blaby) : I find myself in the sad position of raising a slightly dissenting voice. I wish to sound a note of caution on the registering of sex offenders. I wrote to my right hon. and learned Friend the Home Secretary about the matter in early November 1996. I set out my concerns, which were reinforced in an article in  The Times 61 The Sun, The Sun, The Sun 62
 Mr. Andrew Robathan  (Blaby) : Are the arrangements different for any other sort of offence? For example, if a repeated drugs offender or repeated mugger moves house, does he have to register his address somewhere?
 Mr. Rowe : In such a tangled area there have, of course, been distressing stories of some aid being misappropriated. Will my hon. Friend assure us that, particularly in parts of Africa where the NGOs are far less strong but aid is given, every possible means is used to avoid it being misappropriated or falling into the wrong hands?
 Mr. Rowe : While taking an interest in the presentation of Government policy, will my hon. Friend remind the chattering classes who currently appear to be taken in by new Labour that, in 1979, they and their predecessors were convinced both that the country was becoming ungovernable and that the north-south divide was entirely unbridgeable? Both those factors have been turned on their heads by the success of the present Government.
33.  Mr. Steen : To ask the Chairman of the Public Accounts Commission how many staff without professional qualification are employed by the National Audit Office. [11148]
 Mr. Steen : Is it not clear that the National Audit Office is doing well and reducing the number of staff because it is working with a Government who are committed to reducing bureaucracy, cutting red tape and getting rid of unnecessary laws? Is it not true that if the Labour party ever got into power, the number of staff, skilled and unskilled, in the National Audit Office would rise dramatically, simply because of the number of rules and regulations that a Labour Government would introduce? Labour does not trust the people and would introduce ever more laws, so more people would be needed in the National Audit Office to check on what was going on.
5.  Mr. Barry Jones : To ask the Deputy Prime Minister when he last met the Prime Minister to discuss the co-ordination and presentation of Government policy. [11115]
 Mr. Jones : Why did not the Government discuss matters concerning the royal yacht with Her Majesty's very loyal Opposition? Why did the Government contrive a situation that caused deep embarrassment to the sovereign? The presentation of policy under the right hon. Gentleman is an unmitigated disaster.
 Mr. Barry Sheerman  (Huddersfield) : Will the Minister reassure me and the House that the register is not only for paedophiles but is a register of sex offenders? He knows from my recent questions to him that in this
 26
 Mr. Barry Sheerman  (Huddersfield) : It is a pleasure to speak in this debate. I have long supported the calls for the Bill, as have many other right hon. and hon. Members present—the old gang. I was an Opposition spokesman on home affairs for four years. The right hon. and learned Member for Putney (Mr. Mellor) disagreed with me on many issues, but we agreed on one or two, and one of them was the protection of children. 46
 Mr. Sheerman : While researching this issue, I have watched and listened to all the investigative programmes on television and radio over the past two or three years. I hear what my hon. Friend says, but must disagree with him in one sense. Good television and radio programmes have drawn the subject to the public's attention. Indeed, their attention has been focused on the subject as a result of some very good programmes, especially those on Radio 4, Roger Cook's on Central Television, and others, which have addressed the issue, highlighted it and reminded us all of what is going on. The issue has been addressed not only by television and radio programmes, but by The Children's Society, in its report "The Game's Up", which redefines child prostitution. 47
 Mr. Wigley : Is the Minister aware that last Wednesday—the very day on which the announcement about the royal yacht was made—the Secretary of State for Wales announced, in reply to a question from me, that the Government could not go ahead with their commitment to a community hospital in Porthmadog which they had promised for the past seven years, because it had to await the private finance initiative? If the Government are providing public money for the royal yacht when private money is available, and not proceeding with hospital projects when no private money is available, what are their social priorities?
 Mr. David Alton  (Liverpool, Mossley Hill) : Does the Minister recall the harrowing reports last year of two young girls, aged nine and 13, whose charred remains were found in a brothel in Bangkok? Will he assure the House that those guilty of offences committed overseas against children will be included on the register? If that is not done, surely there will be more of an impetus to export sexual offences against children, if British nationals believe that they can commit them abroad with impunity.
 Mr. David Blunkett  (Sheffield, Brightside) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. In view of the consequential measures dependent on the new clause and given that the Bill is now severely damaged, will the Government withdraw the measure and come back to us so that we can form a consensus on those parts of the Bill on which the whole House agrees?
 Mr. Blunkett : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I would not dream of challenging your decision, but as it was ruled in Committee that the deletion of the clause would have consequential results on the remainder of the Bill, it is difficult to see how the Government can proceed with the Bill in its present form. They said in Committee that they could not.
 Mr. Congdon : I welcome the success of the Government's economic policies since 1992. Since that time, they have led to the best growth record in comparison with the other major European countries, and to a record fall in unemployment. Does my hon. Friend agree that all that would be put at risk by the imposition of a minimum wage and the implementation of the social chapter, as advocated by the Labour party?
 Mr. David Evennett  (Erith and Crayford) : Keep dreaming.
 Mr. Jamieson : There are various questions about selection which Conservative Members really must answer. The first concerns a point that emerged clearly when the Bill was given its Second Reading—it was made by a number of Conservative Members too. Let us consider an area where the secondary school serves a local population and there are no other schools nearby. What happens if that school is oversubscribed and then decides to select—in the case of an LEA school, up to 20 per cent. of its intake? Will large numbers of local children be rejected in favour of children from well outside the area whose parents can afford the transport? Interruption. 97 Interruption.
 Mr. Jamieson : I can tell the hon. Gentleman that we shall have a reform in this place, and that will be that we shall shortly be sitting on the Government Benches, and those Conservative Members that are left—the rump, and possibly not the hon. Gentleman—will be sitting on the Opposition Benches.
 Mr. Jamieson : The hon. Gentleman says that he believes in choice. We too believe in choice, but with a difference. Conservative Members believe that choice lies with the school—to choose its pupils. We believe that pupils and parents should choose the school. Selection means that the school selects the children, and there is no parental choice. If the hon. Gentleman is suggesting that all parents, regardless of the ability of their children, can choose to send the latter to grammar school, he is wrong. Children who do not pass the test end up in secondary moderns—there is no choice about that.
 Mr. Jamieson : There could be a great deal of truth in what the hon. Gentleman says, in some authorities' areas.
 98
 Mr. Jamieson : Thank you, Madam Deputy Speaker. With your usual wisdom, you put the hon. Member for Rugby and Kenilworth firmly back in his place. However, my hon. Friend the Member for Morley and Leeds, South (Mr. Gunnell) has raised an interesting constitutional issue. A vital part of a Bill has failed to pass through Committee and has failed to pass through the House tonight, and the Government may have to ask those in another place to amend something that we in this place have decided that we do not want. We look forward to that.
 Mr. Jamieson : I am glad to hear that the hon. Member for Rugby and Kenilworth (Mr. Pawsey) is here. Perhaps later he might go and rally some of his troops and get them into the Lobby to vote on some of these matters. Very few Conservative Members are present, and we saw earlier that the Government could not even rally the troops for a vote on a vital clause. They have lost not once but twice. To lose a vote once is unfortunate, but twice is sheer carelessness. [ Interruption.
 Mr. Jamieson : I see that the hon. Gentleman wants to intervene. I look forward to his explanation on this important matter.
 Mr. Jamieson : Madam Deputy Speaker, if I answered the hon. Gentleman, you would rightly draw me to order for speaking out of order on new clause 9.
 Mr. Jamieson : I wondered for a moment who the hon. Gentleman was intervening on—me or my hon. Friend the Member for Yardley. We must move on to baseline assessment.
 Mr. Jamieson : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for the thoroughness with which he always tackles such matters. The Minister made it clear during Committee that an early clause of the Bill allowed primary schools to select their pupils. That was admitted by the Secretary of State on Second Reading. It would be interesting if my hon. Friend took up the point with the Minister later in the debate.
 99
 Mr. Jamieson : The wonderful thing about giving way to the hon. Gentleman is that he puts his foot in his mouth so much that he makes the Opposition case and destroys the Government's arguments. He has done it yet again. The hon. Gentleman misquotes the responses. When parents were asked whether they wanted grammar schools, many said yes. When parents were asked whether they wanted selection, they were not so happy. A very low percentage of parents wanted their children to attend secondary modern schools. I suggest to the hon. Gentleman that the Government could use some of the funds that have mysteriously flowed to the Conservative party to test their focus groups. They could ask parents, "Do you want your child to attend a secondary modern school?", and I make a modest wager with the hon. Gentleman that less than 5 per cent. of parents would say yes.
 Mr. Jamieson : If the hon. Gentleman had been present earlier, he would have heard the exchange involving the hon. Member for Solihull. Parents do not want their children to fail at school, and parents in that area did not want to return to a selective system because they knew full well that, under that system, four fifths of children fail at age 11. Selection does not have a great resonance for parents.
 Mr. Jamieson : I have hit another rich vein, as another Conservative Member makes points for our side. The hon. Member for Halesowen and Stourbridge (Mr. Hawksley) claims that parents in his area, first, do not want selection and the 11-plus test; and, secondly, despite all the bribes, cannot be enticed to vote for schools to go grant maintained. Both of the Government's policies have failed. I did not intend to mention the Government's failed grant-maintained policy and the fact that just over 1,000 schools have opted out. The hon. Gentleman has confirmed that both of those policies have failed in his constituency not because of local Labour politicians or events in this House, but because perceptive parents who want the best for their children have roundly rejected those ideas.
 Mr. Jamieson : Having said that we had hit a rich vein of failure, I willingly give way to the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Jamieson : The hon. Gentleman will have to do a little better than that. Labour Members have no problems with parents sending their children to grant-maintained or any other schools. There is a grant-maintained Catholic boys school in my constituency. If parents who have profound and deeply held views about a particular religion—in this case, it is the Catholic Church—and who believe in single-sex education were to ask me which school they should send their children to, I would tell them to send their children to the school of their choice, whether or not it is grant maintained. I am surprised not that the hon. Gentleman should enter the argument—as so many of his hon. Friends have done—by referring to hon. Members' children, but that his Front-Bench colleagues should do so also.
 Mr. Jamieson : The hon. Gentleman is absolutely right. In many areas—such as Cornwall—there are no grant-maintained schools and there have been scarcely any ballots. There is no enthusiasm among parents to hold such ballots, even though no pressure is applied. The hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Foster) will know that the pressure on schools is not to go grant maintained or selective but to improve standards. Parents are seeing their children in larger classes, they see a lack of resources and they see depressed and demoralised teachers. Those are the issues that concern parents, and parents will bear them in mind when they cast their votes in the general election. They will make a genuine assessment of where the parties stand on those issues. 102
 Mr. Jamieson : The hon. Gentleman is saying that some children have an escape route that enables them to get into a grammar school. It is a curious argument. Does it not mean that children who are poor and go to a secondary modern school face double jeopardy?
 Mr. Jamieson : The hon. Lady said that baseline assessment was not to be used by primary schools for selection, so why does she not accept the amendment?
 Mr. David Jamieson  (Plymouth, Devonport) : Can the Minister clarify a point? As one who has pulled apart warring pupils on many occasions, I thought that it was
 85
 Mr. Jamieson : I am grateful to the Minister for clarifying that point. I raised it because I believe that the cases that have been investigated are more to do with the teacher using restraint because a child has disobeyed an order than preventing a child doing damage to themselves or property. It would be helpful if that matter was clarified because, as the Minister will appreciate, there is a great difference between that type of incident and others. In my view, the only circumstance in which a teacher should use that type of restraint is when there is immediate danger to the child, some other person, or property.
 Mr. Jamieson : In Committee, the Minister of State said that he felt that much of the legislation that had passed through the House in recent years had been concerned, not with raising the standards of children's education, but with tinkering with systems of education. We have before us tonight a proposal to introduce more selection in both primary and secondary schools—another example of the Government not finding ways to improve children's education, but tinkering with the system at the edges.
 Mr. Jamieson : Perhaps I may help my hon. Friend the Member for Newham, South (Mr. Spearing). It would seem that, after the Division a few minutes ago, some of the steam has gone out of Ministers and there is a reluctance to speak about matters, except—
 Mr. Jamieson : I thought that my well-chosen comments might bring the Minister to her feet to explain her silence and her Trappist appearance on the Front Bench. We look forward to hearing the Minister answer the excellent points made by my hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham, Yardley (Ms Morris), but I noticed, during the passage of the Nursery Education and Grant-Maintained Schools Act 1996, when the Bill before us was discussed in Committee, and in many debates, that the Minister is sometimes reluctant to expose her views to the debates that we have in such Committees. I am sad that we have not had the benefit of the Minister's thoughts on these important matters as a prelude to our discussions. 95
 Mr. Maclean : I shall shortly be commenting on sexual offences committed overseas, in the context of part II; but I believe that it is not possible to require people convicted of any offence abroad to register here. If a paedophile who has committed an offence abroad is convicted in the
 28
 Mr. Maclean : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his kind words. He may be slightly confused about what I said or by my answer to my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Putney (Mr. Mellor). 29
 Mr. Maclean : Of course the hon. Gentleman is right. On his first point, the Bill is properly called the Sex Offenders Bill. For shorthand, we have tended to call it the "paedophiles Bill" and to talk about the paedophiles register, but schedule 1 of the Bill includes not only offences against children, but other sexual offences, including rape.
 Mr. Maclean : Yes, I did see the article and I shall refer to it in a moment, but I say to my hon. Friend that we must not attempt to bite off more than we can chew.
 Mr. Maclean : I hear what my hon. Friend says. Some paedophiles may fall into that category, but I do not think that all could be defined as such—although I suspect that we would all say that those who kill someone else must be sick to do such a thing. One of the difficulties of dealing with hardened paedophiles is that they do not consider their activities to be wrong; hardened paedophiles believe that the rest of us have set unfair parameters to their sexual activity. They do not believe that having sex with children is wrong—many of them believe that it is a right thing to do and that we are the wrong ones for trying to restrain that activity. That is what makes them especially dangerous, and that is why some are so clever and manipulative. 27 The Times
 Mr. Maclean : I suggest that the hon. Gentleman reconsiders the enormity of his suggestion. We operate—as does part II of the Bill—the dual criminality test. Everyone who is convicted by a British court of the relevant offences will be required to register. However, the hon. Gentleman suggests a haphazard registration system that would include those who might come to public attention because they had been convicted of an offence in a foreign country. I suspect that the vast bulk of such people would not have to register and that the British dual criminality test would not operate. People might be convicted in foreign countries of offences that are not recognised in British law and that are not compatible with our requirements. For instance, we all know that the age of consent differs between countries. It is a recipe for disaster.
 Mr. Maclean : I am always happy to consider carefully the views expressed by hon. Members on both sides of the House about an entirely non-political issue such as this. I shall examine carefully all the points that have been made. However, I think that the hon. Member for Cardiff, South and Penarth (Mr. Michael) focuses on only one narrow question. The Bill has two parts and the second part deals with sex tourists. We intend to introduce powers to prosecute people in this country for offences that they have committed overseas. I think that there will be few such prosecutions in this country, not because people will wish to be prosecuted overseas, but because of the difficulty in obtaining evidence. Britain has a very
 30
 Mr. Maclean : I am not sure how our obligations under the European Court of Human Rights would be affected by a provision that said, "We shall impose draconian conditions on those whom we know about but not upon those who have been convicted abroad but whose convictions have not come to our attention." That is not a sensible way to proceed legislatively. 31
 Mr. Maclean : My right hon. and learned Friend makes an interesting point. I believe that we have got the balance about right. It would be difficult to impose a lifetime registration requirement on any person convicted of a sexual offence of the type specified in schedule 1. There may be a philosophical difference between us. I am open to the suggestion that the registration periods are not right, that they could be extended or perhaps that they should be shortened, but it would be a draconian measure to impose a lifetime requirement on any person convicted of any of the sexual offences in the Bill.
 Mr. Maclean : I disagree with the last part of the hon. Gentleman's remarks. The register will be of immediate use when it is set up. It will contain over 2,000 names a year from England alone. The hon. Gentleman is right in the first part of his observations, however, in that there are likely to be about 50,000 people—that is, if we go back far enough—who have been convicted of a sexual offence. Some of those previously convicted may still be active paedophiles. Equally, many of them will no longer offend. 32 33
 Mr. Maclean : No, such offenders do not have to register their address. The requirement to register is an innovation and, so far, we are proposing that it should apply only to those convicted of the offences listed in schedule 1. Of course, prisons notify local police of people leaving prison who were convicted of serious offences, and those who have received a life sentence may have conditions built into their life licence that they should notify the police of any change of address. However, other than in those circumstances, there is no requirement on individuals to tell the police that they are moving or, indeed, that they have moved.
 The Minister of State, Home Office (Mr. David Maclean) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time. 24
 Mr. Maclean : It may be legitimate for authorities to keep lists of offenders, especially when there is any
 25
 Mr. Maclean : The hon. Gentleman makes a good point, which I shall come to shortly. The short answer is no. That is why I am informing the House that I shall propose a small amendment to impose a requirement for additional information to be provided by the person, to enable the police to identify more accurately the person standing at their desk and giving them a name and address. I have concluded that the requirement for merely a name and address needs to be strengthened.
 Mr. Maclean : I think that I can help my right hon. Friend. We have already included a provision that requires those who have been convicted of possessing indecent photographs of children, or of taking, showing or possessing such photographs with a view to distributing them, to register. The Bill does not cover only importation. We are now plugging that loophole.
 Mr. Maclean : The hon. Gentleman's summary of the Government's position is about right. Trying to impose a registration requirement on people whom the police suspect are apt to abuse would be a very radical measure. How would people know that they were supposed to register if the police have not told them that they are suspect of activities? I do not know how we could force people to register if they are merely suspected of abuse.
 Mr. Maclean : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for giving way—although it makes it more difficult for me to say that he is talking nonsense in his latter point. The expensive resources are there: the updates to the police national computer system and to the police national database, which links every police force in the country with digital communications equipment to each other and to the PNC, are the essential resource. The only extra work for the police will involve transmitting the new information to the PNC when a person turns up at a police station and provides his name and address. We have already allocated the resources required.
 Mr. Maclean : I have heard the main thrust of the hon. Gentleman's plea that we should impose a requirement on people who do not know that they have been convicted, because they have not been convicted, to register with the police and that they should be liable to six months' imprisonment if they do not do so. How would he justify to the House, to the country and to his new party a sentence of six months on people who failed to register when they did not know that they had to do so because they had never been charged with or convicted of any offence?
 Mr. Mellor : I am glad that the hon. Member has mentioned that point. She was an indefatigable
 42 43 44 45
 Mr. David Mellor  (Putney) : I echo the welcome given to the Bill by the hon. Member for Cardiff, South and Penarth (Mr. Michael) from the Labour Front Bench. I congratulate my right hon. Friend the Minister on bringing it forward. The approach of those on both Front Benches to the Bill is a model of how Parliament should operate. On some subjects, deep and often embittered partisanship is inevitable. On others, hon. Members do the House no disservice by working together, pooling our experiences and talking sensibly about an issue that is beyond party politics but is of fundamental importance. 40
 Mr. Mellor : I should like to develop my argument. I shall not take a long time. 41
 Mr. David Mellor  (Putney) : I warmly welcome the Bill, but can my right hon. Friend help me with the thinking behind the point that he was elaborating? He said a very true thing that bears out my experience of more than five years in his office. He said that paedophiles are incorrigible, all the more so because they believe that society is wrong, and that they are not. Clearly, paedophiles are the criminals least likely to mend their ways.
 Mr. Winnick : Are we to take it that the person who heads co-ordination—the Deputy Prime Minister—denies any responsibility for the announcement about the royal ship? Is it not clear that that announcement was meant as an election ploy, but has backfired on the Government? Is it not a matter of deep regret that the Queen has been embarrassed in such a way by this Government?
 Mr. Derek Foster : I welcome the hon. Gentleman to his elevated position. Despite his Geordie credentials, I hope that his tenure of office will be short.
 Mr. Foster : Further to that point of order, Madam Deputy Speaker. I am grateful to you for your guidance. My point is that I fail to understand how the Government can bring to the House a Bill that refers to a proposed new section that the House has not agreed should be inserted in the Bill. New clause 3, which we debated earlier, attempted to insert proposed new section 259A. The legislation before us refers to that proposed new section, but the House has not approved it.
 Mr. Don Foster : I thank the hon. Gentleman for giving way. I know that he is anxious to finish his speech, to which I have listened with considerable interest.
 Mr. Don Foster : On a point of order, Madam Deputy Speaker. Can you advise the House whether it is appropriate for us to consider any amendments to the Bill, given that it appears to be flawed? I draw your attention to clause 6(2)(a), in which direct reference is made to "section 259A". You will be aware that that proposed new section was the subject of the new clause that the Government sought to insert. We are interested to know how it is possible to bring a Bill to the House that refers to a proposed new section whose insertion the House has not approved.
 Mr. Don Foster  (Bath) : If the hon. Gentleman seeks evidence that grant-maintained status has failed, he need look no further than the fact that only 0.5 per cent. of eligible schools bothered to seek grant-maintained status in the past 12 months. Does that not illustrate that the parents and governors of eligible schools know that it is a failed policy?
 Mr. Donald Anderson : Were not the attempts to portray Government policy as full of probity, honesty and honour called into question by the cheating of the Government Whips just before Christmas? Why has there still been no apology for that cheating? Why have no heads rolled?
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : The Government are likely to be informed about offences committed overseas because, as the Minister well knows, most of the groundwork is performed by an international network of non-governmental organisations that would readily seek to protect children by providing the relevant evidence to the Government. Will the Government reconsider the matter, otherwise there will be a glaring loophole in the legislation?
 Mr. Donald Anderson : Much of the good work in the Philippines, Thailand and other countries is done by British non-governmental organisations. Does my hon. Friend incline to the view that responsible organisations should in certain circumstances be able to consult the
 35
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : I follow the hon. and learned Member for Burton (Sir I. Lawrence) in saying, with a lawyer's hat on, that there are problems in relation to the dissemination of the names on the register, access to it and the information that it holds, but I will briefly comment on part I. 68 Official Report,
 Sir Donald Thompson : When my right hon. Friend is discussing with his right hon. and hon. Friends the co-ordination and presentation of the Government's
 6
 The Minister of State, Department for Education and Employment (Mr. Eric Forth) : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time. 75
 Mr. Forth : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time.
 Mr. Forth : The new clause is intended to help teachers. I hope that hon. Members on both sides of the House will welcome it, as the teachers' unions have. It will codify and clarify teachers' powers to restrain disruptive pupils.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Forth : Teachers and other staff authorised by the head teacher will have the—
 Mr. Forth : My hon. Friend will be aware that the wording of part of the new clause bears directly on the point that he has raised. To help my hon. Friend, I shall quote the new clause. It says that the clause
 "does not authorise anything to be done in relation to a pupil which constitutes the giving of corporal punishment within the meaning of section 548." 81
 Mr. Forth : I understand my hon. Friend's point, which is important. He will remember that, in Committee—I think that it was when we were debating his new clause—similar points were raised about the confusion that might arise in the definition of corporal punishment. I understand why my hon. Friend is bringing a similar argument to bear on the possible definitional problems that might exist on restraint in the classroom. I have two reassurances for him, which I hope he will accept. First, there will inevitably be guidelines which, after due consultation, my Department will issue the better to give guidance to teachers, heads and others on how to interpret the clause and to put the issue beyond doubt. Secondly, any reasonable person reading the new clause, knowing its context, and understanding the motivation behind it, would have difficulty confusing reasonable restraint by a teacher with the administration of corporal punishment. I accept that my hon. Friend's argument might apply in extreme cases, but I doubt whether they would arise.
 Mr. Forth   indicated assent.
 Mr. Forth : I am confident that there is no danger of our falling foul of the European Court of Human Rights on this because the measure is designed not only to protect teachers—rightly—against what are often said to be unfair and unfounded accusations, but to protect pupils. It will apply when a teacher restrains a pupil who may be fighting or in conflict with another. One of the important motivations behind the new clause—I am glad that my hon. Friend has given me the opportunity to explain this—is to provide additional protection to pupils. At a cursory reading, it may seem to be all about protecting teachers, but my hon. Friend, with his enormous knowledge and understanding of such matters, will know that one of the other purposes of the new clause is to provide real protection to pupils. We are giving teachers the power to restrain pupils who are harming one another—or even, as might occasionally happen, harming themselves—or causing disruption in the classroom. 82
 Mr. Forth : My hon. Friend has raised an interesting and relevant point; I should like to take further advice on it. My initial reaction is that I do not believe that the new clause would materially affect the position either of teachers or of schools. Ever cautious, however, about giving an off-the-cuff response to an important and substantive point, I should like, if my hon. Friend will allow me, to consider the point and let him know my conclusions. I am, however, fairly confident that the advice I am giving is sound.
 Mr. Forth : With your permission, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I should like to say to my hon. Friend the Member for Blackpool, South (Mr. Hawkins) that he makes an interesting point which should, perhaps, be pursued. Many, however, would say that it is unlikely that people as perceptive and worldly wise as teachers would sign up to something as important as a trade union for something in a sense as trivial as the obtaining of insurance cover. Were that to be the case, it could give rise to some rather worrying aspects. The matter should, perhaps, be pursued but not necessarily within the confines of our debate on the new clause.
 Mr. Forth : I should say straight away that we are as concerned as anyone that, where statutory proposals are made by local education authorities, they should be considered with the greatest care and that the decisions made should take full account of the views of parents and other schools in the area. We are also conscious of the need for proposals to be dealt with as quickly as possible to avoid unnecessary uncertainty. That is surely particularly important where a school is proposed for closure, although since closure proposals require approval under section 169 of the Education Act 1996, and not section 37, they would not be affected by the proposed new clause. The proposals affected would therefore be those that are less controversial.
 Mr. Forth : I am sure that the guidance, when it is issued after consultation, will reflect that point, although I hope that the hon. Gentleman agrees that there is always a limit to the extent to which guidance issued in good faith from my Department can, or should seek to, detail every conceivable circumstance that might arise in the classroom. A balance has to be struck between giving teachers reasonable guidance, reassurance and examples of best practice, and seeking to set out in black and white every conceivable circumstance that might arise and what can be done in black and white. However, I accept the spirit of the hon. Gentleman's point and I am sure that we will endeavour to ensure that the guidance that will follow consultation, should the new clause be accepted by the House, will strike that balance.
 Mr. Forth : The hon. Gentleman may—inadvertently, I am sure—be trying to draw me into a matter of detail, albeit an important detail, in advance of the consultation that we want to conduct before we issue guidance. My initial reaction is that an incident such as he describes would probably be more of a disciplinary matter than one that justified the sort of restraint that we are discussing in the new clause. That point probably illustrates better than any other the fact that all reasonable people, especially teachers in the classroom, can readily identify the cases that require this exceptional restraint to be used and the great majority of cases in which there would be no question of its being used.
 Mr. Forth : Like the hon. Member for Plymouth, Devonport (Mr. Jamieson), the hon. Member for Liverpool, Walton (Mr. Kilfoyle) has posed a reasonable question and I can give him a preliminary answer. Good order—which is, I think, at the core of his question—could be defined as when pupils' education is not being seriously or persistently disrupted. When the guidelines emerge, I suspect that words such as "seriously" and "persistently" will provide the key to the question. We are not expecting teachers to use physical restraint to deal with trivial or, dare I say, routine classroom difficulties of the kind that one expects in a roomful of boisterous, eight, 10 or 12-year-olds, but if there is serious or persistent disruption, whether fighting or abuse of property or people, the new clause could possibly come into effect. If the disruption were not serious or persistent, we would not expect the measures to be used.
 Mr. Forth : I am sure that my hon. Friend agrees that the view that our right hon. Friend the Prime Minister and other colleagues have taken is that the development of the ethos that exists in the cadet corps can be a force for good only if it is offered to more and more pupils in schools for the good reason, which my hon. Friend and other Conservative Members well understand, that the team spirit and self-discipline that exist in the cadet corps sit comfortably with the objectives of the new clause. My hon. Friend makes a good and effective point.
 Mr. Forth : Regrettably, my hon. Friend the Member for Blackpool, South is right. We find so often that misinformation is spread, often deliberately, by people who wish to misrepresent what the Government intend to do. In that way, they spread unnecessary fears among teachers and, occasionally, among parents. Surely we all understand that membership of the cadet corps has always been voluntary and will continue to be so. We are saying that membership should be encouraged.
 Mr. Forth : I hope that, in the same spirit in which the hon. Member for Liverpool, Walton (Mr. Kilfoyle) was able to accept the brevity of the previous debate, he will allow that the House occasionally wishes to explore in a little more detail the provisions of a rather more complicated new clause. In deference to his request, however, I shall try to make progress.
 Mr. Forth : Mid-Worcestershire.
 Mr. Frank Field : Will the right hon. Gentleman confirm that no disestablishment Bill has gone through the House without disendowment? The effect of disestablishment would be that, the day after, the same old crew would be running the same old show with a lot less money.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. If the Chair had thought that there was filibustering or tedious repetition, the Chair would have intervened. So far, the debate has been in order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I have already drawn it to the attention of hon. Members, especially the hon. Member for Blackpool, South (Mr. Hawkins) that interventions are supposed to be brief and to the point. I do not know whether the hon. Gentleman heard me; I made that point only a couple of seconds ago, and my voice has not gone at all.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I have no information whatever on what the Government intend to do.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss the following amendments: No. 50, in clause 31, page 27, line 16, at end insert
 'and no assessment under such a scheme shall be used for the purposes of selection as to school admissions whether by reference to ability or aptitude or otherwise.'. 'and such an assessment shall be undertaken solely for the purposes specified in section 31 above.'.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I cannot help that. It is entirely up to Ministers to attempt to catch my eye. If they do not do so, they do not get called.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : There is the explanation.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : We must proceed with the Bill. The Government will no doubt take note of the points that have been made.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Before the Minister replies, I must remind all hon. Members that interventions are supposed to be brief and to the point. We seem to be straying away from the new clause.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Will hon. Members leaving the Chamber please leave quietly, and will those remaining please give the Minister a fair hearing?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss Government amendments Nos. 12 and 40.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I have nothing to add to what I have said. We must carry on with consideration of the Bill. I have no doubt that the Government will take note of what the hon. Gentleman has said.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : That is not a matter for the Chair.
 Mr. Foulkes : Does the Minister recall that, last week, the Foreign Secretary admitted that the United Nations' arms embargo is not enforceable in our dependencies, which is why Mil-Tec of the Isle of Man was able to supply more than £3 million of arms to the perpetrators of genocide in Rwanda? Will the Minister assure us that no other such violations are occurring, and attempt to close the loophole so that seedy companies in those island boltholes cannot undermine all our humanitarian efforts?
 Mr. Janner : Has the commission complied with the recommendations of the Equal Opportunities Commission and the Commission for Racial Equality to carry out proper sex and ethnic monitoring? If so, what are the results?
 Mr. Greenway : Is my hon. Friend aware of the devastated condition of many schools in Angola following the civil war? Is he aware that quite a lot of aid is given to Angola? Should not that aid be directed into education, which would best enable the country to help itself and its citizens?
29.  Mr. Harry Greenway : To ask the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs what support his Department is giving to (a) school and (b) higher education schemes for Angola; and if he will make a statement [11144]
 Mr. Harry Greenway : Would it be right to assume that civil servants did discuss the policy on the royal yacht with Ministers and to congratulate them as well as Ministers on the policy? Surely it has become clear from exchanges this afternoon and well before that, like its predecessor, the new royal yacht will earn billions of pounds, which will enable the Government to build many more schools, hospitals and the like than could be built for £60 million.
8.  Mr. Dykes : To ask the Deputy Prime Minister if he will make a statement on his Department's role in co-ordinating Her Majesty's Government's economic and social policies. [11119]
 Mr. Dykes : Does my hon. Friend expect the forthcoming economic statistics to confirm the strong underlying growth trend in the United Kingdom economy?
 Mr. Bruce : I congratulate my hon. Friend on his answer and on his promotion to the Government Front Bench. The Government are helping to move out the information super-highways presaged by the Green Paper. Will we in South Dorset have one of the computerised terminals that would allow my constituents to find information about government and communicate directly with the Government?
2.  Mr. Ian Bruce : To ask the Deputy Prime Minister if he will make a statement on the progress of his
 3
 Sir Ivan Lawrence  (Burton) : Along with everyone else who has spoken, I welcome the Bill as a substantial step forward in protecting children from the vilest of offenders, who prey on their innocence and ruin their lives. "A third of Britain's police forces are now investigating allegations of abuse in children's homes". The Criminal Law Review "Paedophile murders of children in Belgium", "In July 1996 Stephen Mitchell, a British sexual tourist, was convicted and imprisoned for 17 years in the Philippines for paedophile acts. In October 1996 a British tour organiser … was sentenced to … 16 years for promoting child prostitution in the Philippines." "for having sex with six young girls, some of whom were aged only 11. A senior diplomat … was convicted and imprisoned for the importation of videos depicting sex acts with children." 66 67
 Mr. Jacques Arnold : When my right hon. Friend the Deputy Prime Minister discusses the presentation of Government policy, will he stress yet further the great success of the private finance initiative, particularly in north-west Kent, where, thanks to the PFI, we will get me brand new Darenth Park hospital? Will he contrast the Government's policy with that of the Labour party, which would have us waiting in the queue for Government handouts of NHS capital, as we have waited for the past 25 years?
 Mr. Jacques Arnold : Is it not the case that the countries of Africa and elsewhere that have complied with programmes suggested by the World bank made very great progress, whereas countries such as Rwanda, which are involved in political expression and racial politics, have not lived up to the standards of the new Africa and new developing countries?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment (Mr. James Clappison) : I appreciate the interest of the hon. Member for Southampton, Itchen (Mr. Denham) in this matter. Perhaps he and the hon. Member for Greenwich (Mr. Raynsford) will allow me to put these issues in the context of the housing defects scheme of assistance as a whole. 132 133 134
 Mr. Pawsey : I again thank the hon. Gentleman for the courtesy that he has shown me this evening. It is out of
 100
 Mr. Pawsey : That is a hypothetical case; try.
 Mr. Pawsey : The hon. Gentleman mentioned constitutional reform. Am I not right in saying that the Labour party wished to reform the other place? Given the
 96
 Mr. Pawsey   rose
 Mr. Pawsey : I am obliged to the hon. Gentleman for giving way yet again. Does he accept that in Warwickshire, we have a safety net, as it is called? That means that young people who go to the high schools can transfer at age 16 to the sixth form in a grammar school. [ Interruption.
 Mr. Pawsey : I thank the hon. Gentleman for his courtesy in giving way to me a third time. The principle of selection was discredited in some quarters because we failed to put adequate funds into what were known as secondary moderns and junior technical schools. Does the hon. Gentleman agree with that? The mistake was not giving them an adequate share of resources between the 1940s and 1960s; had they received an adequate share, the tripartite system that worked so well in Germany would have worked equally well here.
 Mr. Pawsey : On a point of order, Madam Deputy Speaker. May I seek your advice? You have heard what Labour Members have said. Would I, however, be right in saying that there would be no objection to that new clause being introduced in another place, and that if it were carried in another place it could be introduced in this place, under the general heading of Lords amendments?
 Mr. Pawsey : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that his argument is a powerful one in favour of added choice and diversity in schools? He will recall that, in Rugby, we have maintained grammar schools; we have Rugby high school for girls and Laurence Sheriff grammar school for boys, both of which have an enviable reputation in the town for providing high quality education. Does he agree that the quality of education rests to a great extent on the quality of the primary schools in Rugby? The fact is that the very existence of an 11-plus ensures a tendency to teach up to that examination, thereby enhancing all secondary education across the borough.
 Mr. Pawsey : I apologise to my right hon. Friend for failing to congratulate him on the signal honour he has
 83 "engaging in any behaviour prejudicial to the maintenance of good order and discipline at the school".
 Mr. Pawsey : I am following my hon. Friend's argument closely. When a teacher intervenes in a classroom brawl or, more likely, a playground brawl, is there a risk of that teacher falling foul of insurance provision? Can my hon. Friend assure me that there will be adequate insurance for teachers, and that any teacher who might be injured as a result of intervening in some disagreement between pupils will be covered by terms of insurance?
 Mr. Pawsey : Clearly my hon. Friend agrees that those claims are erroneous. Will he confirm that the new clause does not fall foul of the European Court of Justice?
 Mr. Pawsey : I apologise for continuing to interrupt my hon. Friend's speech. I understand that he is developing the theme. Does he intend to refer to the European perspective? He will know that there have been some erroneous claims that the European Court has ruled against the United Kingdom on the use of corporal punishment in schools.
 Mr. Pawsey : My hon. Friend might acknowledge that there is a fine line between restraint—preventing a pupil from hurting or injuring another pupil—and the use of corporal punishment. It might be construed that corporal punishment is being used in restraining a child. That is a fine point. I should be grateful if my hon. Friend could spend a little time—for my benefit if for no one else's—explaining the distinction.
 Mr. James Pawsey  (Rugby and Kenilworth) : Will my hon. Friend help me and other hon. Members? Does the new clause have any implications for any new clauses, which we may debate later, that relate specifically to corporal punishment?
 Mr. Pawsey : We are here.
 Mr. Pawsey : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Is it in order for the hon. Member for Liverpool, Walton (Mr. Kilfoyle) to suggest that Conservative Members are filibustering when we are—
 Mr. Pawsey : I am not seeking to be mischievous, but does the hon. Gentleman agree that if better discipline were maintained in the nation's classrooms, there would be less risk of fighting in playgrounds and therefore less risk to teachers intervening in fights?
7.  Mr. Jim Cunningham : To ask the Deputy Prime Minister how many meetings he has had with his Cabinet colleagues and civil servants since October to discuss the presentation of Government policy. [11117]
 Mr. Cunningham : Does the Deputy Prime Minister remain in charge of Government policy, given that he was not allowed to present the case for the royal yacht?
 Mr. John Denham  (Southampton, Itchen) : Thank you, Madam Speaker for giving me the opportunity to raise an issue that affects at least nine of my constituents in Sholing, Southampton. I realise that that is a relatively small number of people to make the subject of an Adjournment debate, but their situation is a serious one, and one that I hope will be assisted by tonight's debate. Their homes are structurally unsound. They cannot be sold, and they could not be mortgaged. Yet there is no agreement about how they might be repaired, and there is no immediate prospect of any improvement in the situation. 126 127 128 129 "If the steel was severed from the concrete panel, as is required by the licence, we believe that the party wall framework would not be capable of carrying the imposed first floor and roof loading. The structural stability of the property would be seriously affected, resulting in potential partial collapse." "this item has resulted in general misunderstanding by the repairer and designer alike, leading to major constructional defects and problems on site and large scale deviations from the licence. In effect, the removal of internal linings completely revokes the licence which was prepared on the basis of linings remaining." "shows the fixing of the roof to the new blockwork to be structurally inadequate, the junction between external cavity wall and internal gable wall to be inadequately tied, and the walls to be poorly constructed. Large scale rebuilding works are urgently required to remedy these defects." 130
 Mr. Gunnell : I shall comment briefly. Government amendment No. 65 is clearly about selection for primary schools. In Committee, I asked the Minister of State whether he could name a reputable educational organisation or school that had told the Department that it wanted selection in primary schools. He could not do so. He said:
 "In a sense, it does not matter how many schools have asked for the provision; we are giving them the opportunity, if they want to take it. Perhaps by giving them that opportunity, we may stimulate more interest—I do not know."—[ Official Report, Standing Committee D, 116
 Mr. John Gunnell  (Morley and Leeds, South) : In view of the clause being lost twice, it seems to me that the House has expressed its view on new clause 3 extremely firmly. It does not want it. It did not want it in Committee. The whole House does not want it. It cannot possibly be re-introduced in the Lords because we would then have the Government encouraging the Lords to overrule the Commons. Does my hon. Friend agree that that clearly would be completely out of order, constitutionally?
 Mr. Gunnell : Does my hon. Friend agree that we will be writing off children under the age of five years if we do not exclude baseline assessment—which is the purpose of the new clause? Unless we exclude baseline assessments, we will be writing off children when they are in nursery school, and a selection process will be introduced almost as children first encounter the educational system. The test is meant to be diagnostic and to indicate children's potential, perhaps their aptitude and something about them; it should certainly not be used to penalise them in later life. The new clause has been designed to remove that penalty.
10.  Mr. Hutton : To ask the Deputy Prime Minister if he will make a statement on the role of civil servants in the co-ordination and presentation of Government policy. [11122]
 Mr. Hutton : Will the Deputy Prime Minister confirm that he agrees with the principle that civil servants should not be asked to take part in activities that could give rise to criticism that people who are paid from the public purse are being used for purely party political reasons? Will he therefore explain why, on at least two occasions in the past six months, that appears to have taken place, first, in the laughable attempt to cost Labour's manifesto commitments and, secondly, in the establishment of a so-called good news network in the business community to argue for Tory policies? Do not both those activities expose the fact that the Government have broken the spirit, at least, of those guidelines?
 Mr. John Hutton  (Barrow and Furness) : Like other hon. Members who have spoken in the debate, I intend to be brief. Unlike the hon. Member for Blaby (Mr. Robathan), I do not follow his line of argument. My hon. Friends and I broadly welcome the Bill, and we welcome the Government's change of heart about introducing it in Government time. 63 64 65
 Mr. John Marshall : Will my right hon. Friend remind our colleagues in the European Union that this country has had much greater success in creating jobs that they have? The reason for that is that we have a relatively deregulated economy, whereas they have overregulated economies.
 Mr. John Marshall : Does my hon. Friend agree that the greatest assistance that can be given to Cyprus is for the island to be reunited so that the refugees can return to their homes?
 Mr. Prescott : Will the Deputy Prime Minister explain to us the difference between seeing my right hon. Friend the Leader of the Opposition about extra millennium expenditure and having discussions about the Queen's yacht?
1.  Mr. Wilkinson : To ask the Deputy Prime Minister what plans he has to visit the European Commission in Brussels during the current Parliament to discuss deregulation in business. [11110]
 Mr. Wilkinson : Will my right hon. Friend make one of his visitations, preferably prearranged, to the European Commission to make the European Union understand that the idea mooted by the Advocate General that the acquired rights directive should not apply to service contracts would be gravely prejudicial to British interests as regards competitive tendering in local government and
 2
 Mr. Julian Brazier  (Canterbury) : That was a moving speech from the hon. Member for Cynon Valley (Mrs. Clwyd). I strongly welcome the Bill. I support the measures in part II which allow the prosecution in the United Kingdom of British citizens who go abroad to abuse small children in foreign countries. 57 "that a great swathe of offenders who have served their sentences and returned—disgraced at the workplace, disgraced with landlords, disgraced among their families and their friends, and almost certainly unemployed—to try to begin their lives again, should now be bound to the 20th-century equivalent of the leper's bell. This"— "is primitive nonsense. Will nobody say so?" "Apologists for the Home Secretary will object that although sex offenders are victims, they create victims of their own." "Are these not our first concern? There is a clear answer to this. If we judge a person so dangerous that his neighbours must be warned about him, he should not be allowed back into the community." 58
 Mr. Brazier : I shall look at that study. The evidence points to a large number of repeat offences, and the danger is both grave and frequent.
 Mr. Brazier : As one who has recently visited Washington state and spoken to the Seattle district attorney—I have even been out on patrol with the Seattle police—may I put it to my right hon. Friend that one merit that Washington state possesses, unlike its near namesake,
 49
 Mr. Julian Brazier  (Canterbury) : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman could expand what he said earlier. He said that
 37
 Mr. Kevin Hughes  (Doncaster, North) : Will the Minister assure us that he believes that the Bill's provisions are sufficient to deal with paedophiles who, as he probably knows, frequently change their names and the areas in which they live? One matter that concerns me is the difficulty that the police and social services have in keeping track of such people when they have changed their name or moved to another area. Is the Minister happy that the Bill's provisions will ensure that paedophiles can be tracked by the police and social services?
 Mr. Kevin McNamara  (Kingston upon Hull, North) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. You will be aware that, last week, Mr. Justice Kay discontinued the trial of people accused of escaping from Whitemoor prison. One of the reasons that he gave for doing so was the deteriorating health of the accused as a result of the conditions in which they were kept in the prison. Has the Home Secretary given any indication that later today he will seek your leave to interrupt business, to make a statement about the debacle of that trial?
 Mr. Cunliffe : How can the Minister reconcile in any shape or form public expenditure cuts—which have forced many authorities, such as that in my area, to sack home helps and teachers and make all kinds of cuts to public services—with the proposed expenditure on a new royal yacht? Is that not indefensible, as most people consider the vessel to be a kind of floating palace which is used mainly by the privileged? The idea is totally unacceptable to the majority of British people and certainly to many of my colleagues.
 Mr. Llew Smith : Will the Deputy Prime Minister inform the House whether civil servants or the Government co-ordinated the Prime Minister's statement over the weekend that, if we become part of a single currency, we will hand over economic decisions to an unelected and unaccountable European central bank?
 Mr. Alison : The hon. Gentleman will know that all the details of the losses, which occurred some years ago, were published in the properly scrutinised and audited annual reports. I am sure that the hon. Gentleman, who although he comes from Wales is not inimical to the Church of England, will be glad to know that the largely paper losses that arose from the drop in valuation of the Church of England's assets have now been almost fully recovered. On the question of the property in Ashford in Kent, if the hon. Gentleman would like to table a question, I will happily give him at least a written answer. Consideration and investigation of the background to that debacle—I agree that it was no less than that—are continuing and results will be published in due course.
 Mr. Alison : The statement of recommended practice "Accounting by Charities", issued by the Charity
 20
 Mr. Alison : The hon. Gentleman should reflect on the point made by the hon. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Field)—that disestablishment would inescapably be associated with the controversial issue of disendowment. Although that might be a great benefit to the non-conformist Churches, which might claim some of the assets of the Church of England, and to the Roman Catholic Church, it would bring considerable financial detriment to the clergy in the Church of England.
 Mr. Alison : I am happy to support my hon. Friend and I hope that my references to the hon. Member for Birkenhead showed that I am intrinsically robust in my approach. In the light of the importance and significance of Church Commissioners' questions every month, I hesitated so as not to exalt too highly the benefits that might accrue to Parliament from having questions answered regularly by a Conservative Back Bencher.
 Mr. Alison : I share my hon. Friend's dismay at the damage that the Lincoln cathedral dispute has done. I am grateful for the concern that he has expressed, the interest that he has taken and the support that he has given to the Bishop of Lincoln. Disestablishing the Church of England, however, could prove detrimental to Church and to state. It would be paradoxical thus to extend even further the detriment that has already arisen from the Lincoln dispute.
 Mr. Alison : I am happy to confirm the point that the hon. Gentleman has shrewdly and pertinently made. Queen Anne's bounty, which has a remote but important historic pedigree and origin, is at stake in the matter of disestablishment and, if disendowment occurred, there would not be sufficient resources to pay clergy stipends at their present level.
 Mr. Michael Alison (Second Church Estates Commissioner, representing the Church Commissioners) : Disestablishment would not lie with the Church Commissioners to initiate and, without formal instructions and definitions, cost estimates are impracticable.
 Mr. Michael Alison  (Selby) : I join the hon. Member for Bolton, North-East (Mr. Thurnham) and many other hon. Members in applauding the introduction of the Bill, especially part II, and I wish to say a word of congratulation to my right hon. Friend the Minister of State, who has involved himself in this subject exhaustively over a long period. 53 "is outside the United Kingdom"— 54
 Mr. Bates : Listen: we are not going to take that from the Opposition.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Bates : I certainly endorse what my hon. Friend has said. It was generous of him to draw attention to the eradication of the old phrase "the north-south divide". The north is now sharing in the benefits of our present economic prosperity, along with the rest of the country. Last week, jobs were announced in England, in the shape of Nissan; in Wales, in the shape of a meat processing factory; and in Northern Ireland, in the shape of Shorts. This week, jobs have also been announced in Scotland. There is not a part of the United Kingdom that is not benefiting from this economic prosperity, and therefore there is not a part of it that would not be at risk from a Labour Government.
 Mr. Bates : Absolutely. I thank my hon. Friend for drawing that to my attention. Let me again stress the threat to jobs that would be posed by the possibility of an alternative Government. The reality is that the unemployment rate in this country is coming down, and my hon. Friend may be interested to learn—even if the Opposition are not—that the London chamber of commerce has today put paid to the myth promulgated by the Opposition that the jobs involved are all part time. It says that the growth in part-time jobs was greater in the 1950s and 1960s, and that these are new full-time jobs that are extremely welcome.
 Mr. Bates : During this Question Time, we have heard of instances in which the private finance initiative is working for health care; I know, from experience in my part of the country, that that is happening. The subject will be dealt with by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Wales—but I seem to remember that, on that same day, my right hon. Friend announced the creation of 700 new jobs as a result of inward investment in Wales.
 Mr. Bates : Questions on that subject have already been answered. [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh."] They have already been answered. The hon. Gentleman asked a serious question, and I shall give him an answer based on my experience. I visited India two years ago, not long after the royal yacht Britannia had been there. During its visit, £1.3 billion-worth of orders for British companies were secured, which meant thousands of jobs. The new royal yacht will mean 500 jobs for the shipyards—a subject that Labour Members used to care about, but that now only Conservative Members care about.
 Mr. Bates : That subject has arisen frequently in meetings during that period.
 Mr. Bates : I agree absolutely with my hon. Friend's observations on the private finance initiative. I know of his interest in this matter. His constituents will benefit from our policies, which create extra beds and extra facilities in much-needed health care.
 Mr. Bates : Perhaps because it was not cheating. It could be more easily explained as sheer incompetence by the Opposition Chief Whip.
 Mr. Bates : We do indeed. I agree with my hon. Friend about that trend. This morning, we learned of yet more figures demonstrating strong growth: there has been a growth of 2.3 per cent. in gross domestic product. That further endorses the Government's performance in delivering good, solid growth that is non-inflationary, something that has eluded past Governments for about 50 years.
 Mr. Bates : My right hon. Friends and I work closely with colleagues to carry out the policies that are best for Britain. Our key policy themes include the delivery of economic prosperity, the upholding of decent common-sense values in the pursuit of law and order and justice, and the provision of first-class public services.
 The Paymaster General (Mr. Michael Bates) : My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster will be making a comprehensive statement after the conclusion of the period for comments on the Green Paper "Government Direct", which was published last November. There have already been a large number of responses to the Green Paper and more are expected before the closing date, which is 7 February.
 Mr. Bates : I thank my hon. Friend for his welcome to me to this position. The terminals have proved extremely popular throughout the country and many pilots have been available, but there is none yet in South Dorset. My hon. Friend's championing of interest in information technology and openness of government may lead us to consider that location shortly.
 Mr. Bates : I thank the right hon. Gentleman for his barbed welcome. It gives me an opportunity to thank the Leader of the Opposition for removing the right hon. Gentleman from his position as Opposition Chief Whip, thereby ensuring that my last year in the Whips Office was easier than it might otherwise have been.
 Mr. Brown : I thank my right hon. Friend for that reply. However, does he agree that whatever the costs, they would be well worth paying to enable the Church of England to renew itself? For example, the diocese of Lincoln, which covers my constituency, has become a laughing stock because the bishop, for whom I have the greatest regard, is unable to preach his Christmas sermon in his own cathedral. Does my right hon. Friend agree that as many vicars—two thirds, so it is said—are unable to remember even two or three of the Ten Commandments, there is a case for allowing the Church of England to go its own way, to renew itself and to take part in political debate without politicians criticising it when it does so?
34.  Mr. Michael Brown : To ask the right hon. Member for Selby, representing the Church Commissioners, if he will estimate the costs of disestablishing the Church of England. [11149]
 The Deputy Prime Minister : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. Let me make it absolutely clear that the decision about the royal yacht was taken in the normal practices of Government after discussion with officials from the Departments concerned and that the decision was collectively agreed by Ministers. But the whole House will have witnessed the most extraordinary thing: when the announcement was made, one conspicuous voice on the Opposition Benches, the right hon. Member for
 11 [Interruption.]
 The Deputy Prime Minister : Labour Members have not recovered from my last reply. I shall try another one.
 The Deputy Prime Minister : The Chancellor has made his position absolutely clear, despite Labour attacks suggesting that he proposes to extend VAT to food. Both my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister and my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer have said that that is simply not the case. Nothing is more indicative of the scurrilous nature of Labour's coming election campaign than the preposterous posters with which it is adorning the countryside. It is extraordinary that Labour should ask us to answer questions about taxation. Why cannot it answer questions about any of its own taxation proposals?
 The Deputy Prime Minister : We all congratulate the  Financial Times
 The Deputy Prime Minister : All my visits are prearranged and tend to attract a great deal of attention. I can assure my hon. Friend that I am sympathetic to the idea that he has in mind. The timetable for the next few weeks may not allow for a high-profile visit to Brussels, but the Commission would undoubtedly welcome a visit and be immensely sympathetic to the message that I would deliver.
 The Deputy Prime Minister (Mr. Michael Heseltine) : My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster has regular contacts with the Commission and our European partners to discuss deregulation. He is to be congratulated on the considerable progress that has been made. We will maintain pressure for regulatory reform in Europe over the coming months.
 The Deputy Prime Minister : I meet my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister regularly to discuss many areas of my responsibility.
 The Deputy Prime Minister : Very simply, I saw the Leader of the Opposition as a millennium commissioner; I speak in the Chamber as a Minister.
 The Deputy Prime Minister : I am most grateful to my hon. Friend. I am sure that the House will recognise the further continuation of Government success as a result of Nissan's exciting recent announcement.
 The Deputy Prime Minister : I refer the hon. Gentleman to the reply by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster a few moments ago.
 The Deputy Prime Minister : The hon. Gentleman has obviously not been fully in touch with what has been going on recently on these matters because, if he had been, he would realise that the party that is threatening to hand over more power to the European movement and to extend qualified majority voting is his own party.
 The Deputy Prime Minister : I will send a little note to the gentleman concerned drawing his attention to my hon. Friend's views.
 The Deputy Prime Minister : The hon. Gentleman will be fully aware that the costing of Opposition policies is carried out under guidelines established by the head of the
 10 "leaked documents are particularly welcome. I promise to make good use of them."
 The Deputy Prime Minister : Civil servants continue to play a role in co-ordinating and presenting Government policy consistent with the spirit and the letter of the civil service code and the civil service management code.
 Mr. Gerrard : Will the Deputy Prime Minister confirm from his discussions with the Chancellor that the Chancellor has several times clearly stated his view that the VAT tax base is too narrow and specifically mentioned food, children's clothing and newspapers as candidates for the extension of VAT? Precisely which of those is being considered for VAT?
13.  Mr. Gerrard : To ask the Deputy Prime Minister when he last met the Chancellor of the Exchequer to discuss the co-ordination and presentation of Government policies relating to VAT. [11125]
 Mr. Hawkins : I join in the congratulations that have already been given to my right hon. Friend on his membership of the Privy Council. Does he agree that one of the interesting things about the way in which the recent suggestion about voluntary service in the cadet force has been portrayed is that the leaders of the teaching unions have deliberately misrepresented it as a plan to make cadet service compulsory? The whole point is that our right hon. Friend the Prime Minister was talking about voluntary service. There was deliberate misconstruction which the media—
 Mr. Nick Hawkins  (Blackpool, South) : My right hon. Friend may be aware that I and a number of other hon. Members, including my hon. Friend the Member for Erith and Crayford (Mr. Evennett), have explored insurance in some detail. Does my right hon. Friend agree that the position of the teaching unions is significant in this regard? It is clear to all my hon. Friends that many teachers join the teaching unions when they first qualify simply to get insurance. Their membership is then regarded by the often militant political leadership of those unions as in some way being support for their political policies. Does my right hon. Friend agree that it would be a good thing if insurance cover was separate from union membership—
 Mr. Nick Raynsford  (Greenwich) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend the Member for Southampton, Itchen (Mr. Denham) and to the Minister for allowing me to speak briefly in the debate. I pay tribute to my hon. Friend for raising this important subject, which affects a number of his constituents. He has rightly highlighted the disturbing implications for them of the manifest failure of schemes, and the way in which they were put into effect, that were supposed to resolve the problems in their homes. 131
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : I welcome the legislation because my first Adjournment debate in the House of Commons addressed the problem of sex tourism in Thailand. We must do all that we can to ensure that people do not escape the law in this country by perpetrating dreadful acts abroad. I urge my right hon. Friend to reconsider the case of someone who travels abroad and who is tried and convicted abroad of a serious sexual offence. Is it not better to catch some such paedophiles on the register in this country rather than saying. "Oh well, people will fall through the net, so we had better have none rather than some"?
23.  Mr. Nigel Evans : To ask the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs how much assistance was given to Cyprus in 1996. [11138]
 Mr. Evans : Does my hon. Friend think it is regrettable that tensions on the island seem to be increasing? Not only were mere tragic deaths last year on the green line, but it has been announced that Cyprus intends to buy the S300 military system from Russia. At the same time, the authorities in the north have said that they will retaliate
 12
24.  Mr. Spearing : To ask the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs what further assessment he has made of the effects of conditions attached to aid from (a) the World bank and (b) other sources on the causes of the civil war in Rwanda. [11139]
 Mr. Spearing : Does the Minister agree that the five-volume report, which the Minister of State has placed in the Library, makes it clear that there were many factors in the crisis? Is it not true that an over-emphasis on competition, particularly among people of similar ethnic background and in certain regions of a country,
 13
 Mr. Spearing : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I apologise for not raising the matter immediately, but I was taken by surprise. Is it not the custom of the House that when an amendment is moved, we receive an initial indication from the Government side of the House? Unless we do, some of the speeches that you may wish to hear from us will be bereft of the knowledge of the Government's point of view.
 Mr. Nigel Spearing  (Newham, South) : There are many hon. Members in the Chamber who did not sit on the Committee. May I inquire whether, in Committee, the Government dealt with the inevitable knock-on effect of the exercise of this scheme in respect of a journey to school from the neighbouring area? What was the Minister's response—if any—to that most disruptive effect on parents and pupils within any neighbourhood or town?
 Mr. Spearing : The philosophy is not one of breaking out from an enclosed prison, but of making use of the facilities that the teachers and the community, as well as the borough council, if it is allowed, make available. The hon. Gentleman's assumption may have been true 10, 20 or 30 years ago, particularly in east London, but that situation is now much diminished—I believe that it has largely disappeared. "Clauses 32 to 35 provide for the introduction of compulsory baseline assessment of children at primary schools. That assessment is to be carried out in accordance with an accredited baseline assessment scheme." 114 Hansard;
 Mr. Spearing : Alas, it does not. The Committee debate assists me in understanding the illogicality and educational naivety of the Conservative party. It is clear that my hon. Friend the Member for Barking—she may wish to contribute to this brief and useful exchange—tabled an amendment to try to clarify the extraordinary statement about the measurement of future educational achievements. Perhaps the Minister means that the scheme may assist in predicting future educational achievements, but the Bill does not use the word "predict"; it uses the word "measurement". Measurement can refer only to what exists. I suggest to the Minister that
 115
 Mr. Spearing : I am not sure about a rice pudding; the Bill is certainly not very wholesome. "baseline assessment scheme' means a scheme designed to enable pupils at a maintained primary school to be assessed for the purpose of assisting the future planning of their education". "for the purpose of assisting the future planning of their education". "the future planning of their education and the measurement of their future educational achievements".
 Mr. Spearing : Most teachers, whatever their political persuasion, would agree with what my hon. Friend the Member for Barking (Ms Hodge) has just said, but I should like briefly to refer to the speech of the hon. Member for Southend, East (Sir T. Taylor). 113
 Mr. Spearing : Does my hon. Friend realise that many people who have taught in both grammar and comprehensive schools are acutely aware that, particularly in the 1950s and 1960s, bad grammar schools concentrated only on the notionally top third of pupils and that the remaining pupils suffered and were effectively sacrificed? In comprehensive schools, however, staff attempt to fit the education that they can provide to all the needs of all the pupils. I think that my hon. Friend will agree that the Prime Minister would agree with that analysis and description.
 Mr. Spearing : I do not dispute the hon. Gentleman's figures, but surely he faces a logical dilemma. An equal and perhaps even a greater explanation of what I might call the Southend phenomenon is the quality, dedication and resources that are available to the schools that take the 75 per cent. Is not that just as likely an explanation as the process of selection, which the hon. Gentleman advances?
 Mr. Spearing : Those who read our debates or extracts from them may be puzzled. I cannot find the word "selection" in the Bill, or any implication that the Bill will be used for the selection of pupils into primary schools. The only words in the Bill which suggest that are the reference to
 "assisting the future planning of their education" "where the pupils in question transfer to other schools".
 Mr. Paul Flynn  (Newport, West) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. It may surprise you to know that in the past, two members of the royal family have communicated their approval to me of campaigns that I have run, but—following "Erskine May"—I have never mentioned that fact in the House. I should like us to consider what is stated on page 376 of "Erskine May":
 "The irregular use of the Queen's name to influence a decision of the House is unconstitutional in principle and inconsistent with the independence of Parliament."
35.  Mr. Flynn : To ask the right hon. Member for Selby, representing the Church Commissioners, what new proposals he has to improve the transparency of Church funds." [11150]
 Mr. Flynn : When will the Church publish the report that might partly explain the calamity whereby the Church Commissioners lost a third of their total assets in the great property boom and how they lost £80 million in an absurd venture in Kent? It seems that we are not to know the details. When will the right hon. Gentleman answer the campaigns by CELFRA—Church of England's lost funds recovery action—and Mr. Ancrum Evans who claim that the Church Commissioners should sue Coopers and Lybrand and Chestertons and anyone else who advised them during the loss of that £80 million? The Commissioners are still refusing to publish the full report. When will we be told the truth?
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time. 89 90
 Mr. Kilfoyle : The Minister missed the point completely. I do not doubt one iota of what he said about the current procedures, but the point of the new clause is to lighten the load that those procedures create, not only for local authorities but for central Government. We believed that the Minister was an advocate of far less bureaucracy than currently obtains, and the new clause
 91
 Mr. Kilfoyle : Does the Minister accept that there is virtually no disagreement about the new clause? Does he also accept that his hon. Friends do not need to filibuster?
 84
 Mr. Kilfoyle : That is self-evident, but I posit the question that I put to the hon. Member in Committee: does he see the distinction between discipline, which is interiorised, and order, which is imposed? That question goes to the core of the quality of teaching, parenting and many other issues. "engaging in any behaviour prejudicial to the maintenance of good order and discipline at the school" 87
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I wish only that the Minister had been as willing to consider the consequences of the defeat of
 86
 Mr. Peter Kilfoyle  (Liverpool, Walton) : As we have already fully deployed our arguments in Committee on new clause 3—on 3 December 1996—and it was lost by the Government, there is little or no point in revisiting them; they have been reported in  Hansard.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I ask the hon. Gentleman a simple question: if we accept his prognosis that the way to
 103
 Mr. Kilfoyle : Does the hon. Gentleman agree with the Prime Minister that, for the top 20 per cent., an education is on offer in this country that matches anything in the world? Does he further agree that the challenge, in terms of economic prosperity and social cohesion, is to deal properly with the other 80 per cent.? If that is so, how will grammar schools assist those children to make their mark in life?
 Mr. Pike : Are not organisations involved in overseas aid concerned that the figure for 1997–98 represents a real-terms cut of 8.4 per cent.? It is also a cut in cash terms. Do not the Government stand condemned on their record of cutting money for overseas aid?
28.  Mr. Pike : To ask the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs what representations he has received since the Budget regarding the level of aid projected for 1997–98. [11143]
 Mr. Shore : On the co-ordination of Government policy and information about the European Union, will the Minister tell us whether today's release through the British press of the excellent article written by the Prime Minister, in which he makes clear his great repugnance of the idea of a European central bank on democratic grounds, was cleared with the Chancellor of the Exchequer?
 Mr. Peter Thurnham  (Bolton, North-East) : I am sure that the Government want to do everything possible to ensure that good information is held The Minister mentioned that the police are passed information when an individual is released from prison, and I believe that that information is also passed to social services departments. Will the Minister therefore clarify the instructions for local authority departments? In the paper, "Working Together", which was published a few years ago, it was said that local authorities should not keep lists of suspected offenders, despite the fact that there was a court case—Regina  v.
 Mr. Thurnham : Does the Minister agree that probably more than 50,000 previous offenders will not be within the terms of the Bill as constituted? It will be decades, therefore, before the register is of any use to anyone.
 Mr. Thurnham : If the Minister had been listening, he would have heard me say that, when the person's name and address is already known it will be possible to notify him of the need to inform the police of any move that he might make, and if there is sufficient evidence against him the conviction could be secured on the basis of existing evidence. It is perfectly possible to bring a prosecution if it is thought that that would be in the public interest.
 Mr. Peter Thurnham  (Bolton, North-East) : I welcome the Government's action in introducing this important Bill. It would have been a mistake to have left it as a private Member's Bill; the public's concern is massive and the Government were right to make it a Government Bill. In some respects, however, they have been timid—not a word that I often associate with the Minister—and I am glad to hear that some amendments are proposed, such as an increase in the penalty for non-notification. I urge the Government to go further; the Bill represents only half a loaf and we should attempt to explore in Committee whether we can make it more effective. 50 "There is an urgent need to address the issue of known sex offenders who are not convicted. There should be clear guidance about the management of information in such cases." "the majority of children are abused by unconvicted offenders, and in the minority of cases where prosecution follows the disclosure of abuse, the rate of conviction remains disturbingly low." 51 v. 52
 Mr. Thurnham : I refer the hon. Gentleman to the work of the Faithful Foundation. It has produced evidence—which others have accepted—of a substantial reduction in sex offences of 60 per cent. or more.
 Mr. Thurnham : Will the right hon. and learned Gentleman give way?
3.  Mr. Viggers : To ask the Deputy Prime Minister if he will make a statement on his role in the co-ordination and presentation of Government policy in respect of the replacement for the royal yacht. [11112]
 Mr. Viggers : Does my right hon. Friend agree that last week's statement about a replacement royal yacht has been widely welcomed? Does he agree also that, ideally, Britannia should become the centrepiece of the millennium project in Portsmouth harbour, spanning Gosport and Portsmouth? I am sure that that idea would prove very popular.
 Mr. Caborn : Will the Deputy Prime Minister enlighten the House about the latest proposals from his Department's deregulation unit, which I think have been code-named sunset provisions? Can he confirm the reports that the latest idea from the unit, which was discussed in Cabinet this morning, according to the  Financial Times, Financial Times
 Mr. Maclennan : Does the Public Accounts Commission accept that the qualifications of those in the National Audit Office are adequate—indeed, highly
 17
 Mr. Rod Richards  (Clwyd, North-West) : My right hon. Friend said that paedophiles were in a special category. Does he accept that paedophiles are mentally sick people for whom there is no effective treatment, so they should be detained indefinitely? Will he consider that point, and do so in the context of amending the mental health Acts, which effectively would do away ultimately with the need for a register?
 Mr. Freeman : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for reminding us that the royal naval ship to replace Britannia should be commissioned in 2002, which is the golden jubilee of Her Majesty the Queen. I hope that the new ship will play an important role in those celebrations.
 The Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster (Mr. Roger Freeman) : My right hon. Friend chairs the Ministerial Committee on the Co-ordination and
 4
 Mr. Freeman : We have no plans to carry out any such review.
 Mr. Freeman : It will take the next five years to design and build the new royal yacht. She will be commissioned
 5
 Mr. Freeman : I am sure that my right hon. and hon. Friends will very much agree with my hon. Friend. The Opposition do not understand the importance of promoting the best interests of the United Kingdom throughout the world.
 Mr. Freeman : I think that the hon. Gentleman misunderstands the function of the royal yacht. It is in no sense an irrelevant "floating palace": its primary role is to make a very positive statement abroad about the importance of this country and to promote trade with the rest of the world. Her Majesty the Queen will use the royal yacht on certain occasions, but it is not for her exclusive use. I am very glad that Her Majesty is pleased with the decision.
 Mr. Freeman : On consultation with the Opposition parties, this is not a constitutional matter. It is a right and proper decision for the Government in commissioning a royal naval ship. I hope that the House will appreciate that business sponsorship of a royal naval ship, which occasionally will be used by Her Majesty the Queen, is not appropriate.
 Mr. Freeman : I have not seen the reports to which the right hon. Gentleman refers. The Prime Minister, on behalf of a unanimous Cabinet, made our policy quite plain.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Freeman : Her Majesty's Government will continue to remind the British electorate of the advantages of our opt-out from the social chapter of the Maastricht treaty. We will also continue to remind the electorate that the Labour party would jeopardise that opt-out, increase unemployment and reduce our competitiveness.
 Mr. Freeman : I very much regret that I cannot agree with my hon. Friend's analysis. I am sure that he is sincere, but there is no imminent danger of VAT being put on food.
 Mr. Simon Hughes : I join in the support for the Bishop of Lincoln who has had a hard time and who deserves fully to be supported. It would, however, be helpful if the Church Commissioners assessed the benefits of disestablishment. It has been no disbenefit in Ireland and no disbenefit in Wales. The better and more democratic position in Scotland has been no disbenefit either. The benefits would be to the Church which, it seems to me from all the Gospel teachings, should not be part of the establishment but challenging it.
 Mr. Timms : I thank the Minister for that answer. In view of his earlier answer, will he reassure the House and the country by expressing outrage at last week's revelation that British arms were supplied to Hutu extremists in Rwanda? Does he agree that it is extremely important that the perpetrators of genocide in Rwanda are rapidly brought to justice if we are to ensure that the welcome British and other aid that has been supplied since 1994 is not wasted?
27.  Mr. Timms : To ask the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs how much of his Department's bilateral and multilateral budget was allocated to the Great Lakes area of Africa in the last year for which figures are available; and if he will make a statement. [11142]
 Sir Teddy Taylor : Does my right hon. Friend share my concern and alarm that, throughout the recent big row about value added tax on food, no reference has been made to the fact that, under article 28.2 of the sixth directive, which, incidentally, was approved by the Labour Government, a right to continue a zero rate ended on 31 December 1996 and has continued only by a legal ploy, which is likely to be challenged at the European Court? Would it not be fairer to the electors if the Government and the Opposition were to make it abundantly clear to the people of Britain, instead of putting up silly posters, that there is a real danger that we shall shortly have to pay VAT on food and on children's clothes irrespective of who wins the general election?
6.  Sir Teddy Taylor : To ask the Deputy Prime Minister if he will review the co-ordination of Government Departments in respect of the provision of information on Government policy on the European Union. [11116]
 Sir Teddy Taylor : The hon. Gentleman should consider the position in Southend and in Northern Ireland. All kids achieve better when there is a grammar school input. I also appeal to him to go to areas such as Tower Hamlets—I do not say this contemptuously—which has been run on the agreeable principles of socialism for years, and where achievement is a national scandal. Of course it would be wonderful to have high achievement in such places, but the fact is that we do not and we cannot. It is tragic and a disaster. If the hon. Gentleman doubts that, he should look at the figures that have just been published on the standards of reading and writing for seven-year-olds. What is happening in those boroughs is tragic.
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I wish that Labour Members would be really interested in this subject. They should come to Southend and see the great achievements of our comprehensive schools—which are in the area where I live—such as Shoeburyness county high school and Cecil Jones high school.
 Sir Teddy Taylor : That is wrong.
 Sir Teddy Taylor : To refer to secondary modern schools as dustbins is an insult. I should like to take the hon. Lady to what she would describe as dustbins. There is no sense in what she says. Basically, she is talking of high-achieving schools. I could take her to them.
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I am not questioning the integrity of Opposition Members. I am pleading with them to understand the option. Let us consider achievement. I wonder whether the hon. Member for Liverpool, Walton (Mr. Kilfoyle), the Opposition spokesman, knows the best part of Britain for A-level examinations. Is it the south-east of England, where there is much wealth and large houses? Is it the north-east of England? The place that is streets ahead of everywhere else in the United Kingdom is a place called Northern Ireland, where there is massive poverty. That is accompanied by considerable unemployment and a great deal of misery.
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I should like to think that achievement in Southend reflects the Government's kindness in the allocation of finance, but that is not the case. There is no sign that it is. Perhaps Opposition Members will reflect on my own case. I am now an old man; I have been in this place for 33 years. I came from what was loosely described as a poor home in Glasgow. I managed, through a test, to get into a school called the Glasgow high school for boys. I went there along with other kids. That school was closed by the Labour council. The council scrapped it. 104
 Sir Teddy Taylor  (Southend, East) : As we are near an election, I suppose that party bashing is the flavour of the month. However, this evening I hope to persuade hon. Members to vote against the new clause and to persuade the hon. Member for Plymouth, Devonport (Mr. Jamieson) that he is wholly wrong. I contend that the Labour party is supporting proposals that damage the working class. Evening Standard
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I am sorry that I have spoken for so long. Perhaps I should not have given way, but I believe that we should think about this important issue. 108
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I am encouraged by what the hon. Gentleman said about the schools in his constituency. It is lucky to have him as its Member of Parliament, and
 107
 Sir Teddy Taylor : It does add to the argument. When I started out in politics—I mean this in all sincerity—I genuinely found that Labour people tended to be nicer, more meaningful people who were committed to a principle. By comparison, people from other parties did not have that commitment. That applied to education and housing. The tragedy is that those good people in Glasgow introduced policies which, although well intentioned, were damaging to the working class.
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I hope that that would be the case. What is being said is what we should all love to see. The hon. Member for Barking (Ms Hodge) knows, however, that it cannot and does not happen. When we are in opposition, we sometimes feel that problems will fade away and disappear with the election of a new Government. That is codswallop. I am sure that there are many honourable and sincere members of the Labour party who realise that the problems that we are discussing cannot be resolved by the election of a new Government.
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I accept that there has been a gradual rise in overall standards, but I hope that the hon. Lady will examine areas' relative performance, and think about the position of parents and children in some of the worst parts of our cities. This is not a problem for small towns: it is a problem for our cities, and it will not go away. We are denying people opportunities.
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I have great respect for the hon. Gentleman and I am sure that his local schools are very good. Does he not think that it makes a difference to the morale of a whole street if one or two children are attending a grammar school? People have a chance to say, "Look, there is one of the kids along the road who has broken out. My kid could do the same."
 Sir Terence Higgins : The main work of the office covers 570 accounts, involving expenditure and income of more than £500 billion. It is also the auditor of half of the 300 or so non-executive agencies to which the hon. Gentleman referred. I shall consider carefully what he has said and bring it to the attention of the commission.
 Sir Terence Higgins : In 1997–98, a greater volume of work will be done at a lower real-terms cost. As for the second part of my hon. Friend's question, he may well think that, but it would be wrong for me to answer a hypothetical question.
 Sir Terence Higgins : I cannot give the hon. and learned Gentleman an immediate reply, but I shall happily look into the matter and write to him. Alternatively, he may wish to table a specific question. I am not aware of any form of discrimination in the employment of the staff to whom I referred in answer to my hon. Friend the Member for South Hams (Mr. Steen).
 Sir Terence Higgins (Chairman of the Public Accounts Commission) : The National Audit Office employs 328 staff who do not currently have a professional qualification. Included in that number are 91 staff who are training for a professional qualification and 100 others who have been trained to a high standard in the professional disciplines required by the office. The remaining 137 include the full range of support staff required by a professional organisation.
 Mr. Kirkhope : I am sorry, but time is too short to give way. 72
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department (Mr. Timothy Kirkhope) : I am pleased that we have had an opportunity to discuss the Bill, and I am encouraged by the commitment of hon. Members in all parts of the House to the need for firm and effective action to tackle the scourge of sex offending, particularly that involving children. 71
 Mr. Jessel : Will my right hon. Friend confirm my arithmetic that £60 million, when divided among the United Kingdom's population of 58 million, works out at about £1 per head, or about 20p per head per year over five years? Is it not unbelievably small-minded of Opposition Members to carp about such a small sum that can do such a great deal to generate employment and exports?
 Mr. Tom Cox  (Tooting) : My hon. Friend is making an important point and the south London area that I represent suffers from the problems that he has mentioned. Does he agree that we also have to deal with television companies that give enormous publicity to that way of life, which undoubtedly has a serious effect on many youngsters? It would be helpful if the Minister could tell us what action he intends to take to stem the glorification of child prostitution.
 Mr. Marlow : I believe that it is right that civil servants in the United Kingdom are not supposed to involve themselves in the organisation and presentation of Government policy. Why therefore is it right that Brussels's very own Dr. Goebbels, Geoffrey Martin, of the European Union office on the other side of the square, wishes to involve himself in the great democratic process known as the British general election? Will my right hon. Friend do something to stop that involvement happening? It is scandalous.
 Mr. Marlow : If the grant-maintained policy has failed, why do "perceptive"—to use the hon. Gentleman's word—Labour Front Benchers move heaven and earth to ensure that their children attend grant-maintained schools?
 Mr. Tony Marlow  (Northampton, North)   rose
 Mr. Hawksley : That is not an issue in my constituency. The argument in Halesowen and Stourbridge is whether we should have grant-maintained schools. The local branch of the Labour party is doing everything it can to ensure that parents in my constituency are deprived of that opportunity. They are pressurised not to have grant-maintained schools. I believe that the Labour party is applying similar pressure in Dudley.
 Mr. Warren Hawksley  (Halesowen and Stourbridge) : I served on the Shropshire county council education committee in the days when we had selection. Does the hon. Gentleman accept that parents might be so ambitious for their children as to believe that they would be successful and attend grammar schools? That might be why parents responded in the way that the hon. Gentleman claims.
 Mr. Hawksley : Does my hon. Friend agree that the language of dustbins to describe education for 80 per cent. of children is a disgrace? It is the assumption that those schools will be failures that is the problem. There is no reason why they cannot be good schools. We used to have such schools in Shropshire.
 Mr. Win Griffiths  (Bridgend) : May I draw my hon. Friend's attention to the fact—this must be something of a paradox in the light of what the Government seem to want to do—that it was their own Prime Minister who, a year or two ago, said that we did very well by more able pupils, but that we were failing 80 per cent. of those who attended schools? That is what we must tackle, not the question of the able.
 Mr. Griffiths : I thank the Minister for that response, and I am very pleased that the Government's emergency aid to Tanzania has been increasing. However, will he stop for a moment, ponder the wider picture and try to imagine what would happen if, for example, half a million people suddenly moved into the south-west of England, Wales or the highlands of Scotland and started to live off the land, on which they were dependent for all their requirements? A radical transformation in economic and financial policy is occurring in Tanzania. In such circumstances, why have the Government halved their general aid programme to that country in the past five years? Will they now admit that they should be doing more to help the Hutu refugees return to their own country?
26.  Mr. Win Griffiths : To ask the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs what additional
 14
 Sir Wyn Roberts : I am very glad to have my right hon. Friend's assurance. I do not want to discourage him in any way, but he will be aware that the sort of material
 48
 Sir Wyn Roberts  (Conwy) : The Bill and the debate sharply illustrate the extreme seriousness with which we all view the offences to which the Bill refers. The debate reflects our awareness of the public's strong feelings of justifiable outrage when such offences are committed against innocent children, young people and even very elderly people.
 Sir Wyn Roberts : I certainly agree that we should look at those methods, which were shown on the television programme to which my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Putney referred. My personal opinion, however, is that it would not be wise in this country to disseminate photographs to neighbours of paedophiles as was done in Washington state. I have a feeling that the result would be more crimes, not fewer.
 Sir Wyn Roberts : I dare say that it would. I am basing my remarks on my experience of a particular case in my constituency, but I am sure that the matter is covered in the Pigot report. Nevertheless, and as I am sure the hon. Lady will understand, it is a difficult area.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mrs. Cheryl Gillan) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. To clarify the matter for the House and for yourself, I fully intend to speak towards the end of the debate, if I have the opportunity to catch your eye.
 Mrs. Gillan : Is the hon. Lady able to state the percentages of statemented children or those requiring special educational needs in those schools?
 Mrs. Gillan : I thank my hon. Friend for giving way in a powerful and moving speech. Has he had a chance to
 106
 Mrs. Gillan : I do not know whether the hon. Gentleman has had an opportunity to read the report of the Bill's Committee stage. I draw his attention especially to column 554, where the use of the word "future" was discussed at some length as a result of an amendment moved by the hon. Member for Barking (Ms Hodge). I hope that that will assist the hon. Gentleman in his search for the meaning of the word "future".
 Mrs. Gillan : We have had an extremely long debate on this group of amendments, which I think has generated more heat than light. I thank my hon. Friends the Members for Rugby and Kenilworth (Mr. Pawsey), for Halesowen and Stourbridge (Mr. Hawksley), for Northampton, North (Mr. Marlow) and for Lancaster (Dame E. Kellett-Bowman), all of whom made timely and pertinent interventions. I particularly thank my hon. Friend the Member for Southend, East (Sir T. Taylor) who, as I think Members on both sides of the House would agree, made an extremely passionate speech based on his own experience. 117
 Mrs. Gillan : I do not consider that it is necessary to put that on the face of the Bill. If the hon. Gentleman continues to listen to what I have to say, he will deduce my reasons for that. 118
 Mrs. Gillan   rose
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman  (Lancaster) : Is my hon. Friend aware that the hon. Member for Bath
 105
 Mrs. Golding : Does the right hon. Gentleman think that the full implementation of Judge Pigot's report would be helpful in such cases?
 Mrs. Llin Golding  (Newcastle-under-Lyme) : I strongly support what the right hon. and learned Member is saying. He has identified the same issue as I picked out. Is it not true that many judges are not trained to deal with sexual cases, and pass too many lenient sentences, even when the children get caught? Only a fortnight ago, a case was brought up in the House. That case has gone back to the Court of Appeal because of the leniency of the sentence. The barrier of seven or 10 years seems artificial.
 Mrs. Margaret Ewing  (Moray) : Will the Minister give way?
 Ms Margaret Hodge  (Barking) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Could you tell us whether the Government intend to make a statement on how they will deal with clauses 4 and 5 as they are consequential on new clause 3, which was rejected by the House? Do they intend to amend or withdraw those clauses?
 Ms Hodge : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that we all wish to have the highest standards for all our children in all our schools, and that the real and proper way forward is not to provide only some good schools that offer opportunities for a few children? Does he agree instead that we should focus our attention on raising standards in all our schools, so that children can go to their neighbourhood school and receive a high-quality education? Does he further agree that they should not have to move house or face a system whereby three quarters of children are relegated to the dustbin in secondary modern schools?
 Ms Hodge : During the Bill's Committee stage, the Minister of State quite properly said that children's backgrounds should not be relevant to their results at 16. Our goal should be for all children, whatever their background, to achieve certain levels. I agree with the Minister of State that we should not expect children from a particular background, who start with particular skills and qualifications, to achieve better results than others. We want all our children to achieve. 111
 Ms Hodge : I completely agree. I say to the hon. Member for Southend, East that my children are in inner-city comprehensive schools and are achieving well. They would whatever the structure and irrespective of whether there was selection. When we talk about introducing selection, I remain primarily concerned not for them, because their background and my support as a parent more readily ensures their future, but for precisely those children for whom the hon. Member for Southend, East has expressed concern. Will selection help to deal with that long tale of under-achievement that is often associated with class? No; nor will it increase parental choice, improve schools or raise standards. We know that from information in the league tables that are produced by the Government from GCSE results. I hope that Conservative Members will listen carefully to this. We must learn from those league tables about the impact of selection at 11 so that we may understand what could happen if we introduced selection, as proposed, at the age of five. 110
 Ms Hodge : The Prime Minister might indeed agree with that analysis. My hon. Friend raises another important issue, which is that within schools people are assessed as failures or successes. Even within grammar schools—as those of us who attended them know—children at the bottom are written off. Let us think about that practice, because that is what new clause 9 is about. Let us think about what we would be doing to children at five if we started to classify them as failures because they did not pass a test to get them into the school of their choice. Is that a sensible way in which to make progress? Can we really select children at five according to their ability? Are we really going to write off little children at the very start of their statutory school career because they have failed to pass an initial test?
 Ms Hodge : I thank my hon. Friend for his intervention, because I had planned to deal with just that point. As hon. Members may or may not know, I have taken a particular interest in early years education and in the development of the nursery voucher scheme. I have also been extremely critical of the desirable outcomes that were set as standards—which have become a curriculum, despite the original intention—and which children are expected to achieve by the time they finish their education under the voucher scheme. 112
 Ms Hodge : I hope that the hon. Member for Southend, East (Sir T. Taylor) will sit through my speech. We listened to his, which was delivered with passion and, I think, sincerity, and I trust that he will listen to Opposition arguments against selection. 109 "England's long-standing problem is the long tale of under-achievement with the less able."
 Mrs. Ann Clwyd  (Cynon Valley) : Anyone who saw Sue Lloyd-Roberts' excellent film on child prostitution in Sri Lanka, shown about 10 days ago, will have no hesitation in arguing that people convicted of sexual offences in other countries ought to be on the register in this country too. Anyone who saw the film will have seen a Swiss millionaire who has been accused of abusing about 2,500 young people in Sri Lanka and who is currently being tried in that country. It is terrifying to think that he might come to live here without anyone knowing that he had been convicted of sexual abuse in another country. His and many other examples argue strongly in favour of including such people on our register as well, in case they plan to come and live here. 55 56
 Ms Ann Coffey  (Stockport) : The contributions of hon. Members on both sides of the House demonstrate their loathing and disgust for people who abuse children. The Bill will provide extra protection for children, but, for it to achieve its objectives, underpinning the legislation, there must be a comprehensive package to improve the reporting, detection and conviction of people who sexually abuse children. A widespread criticism of Government machinery is the failure to deliver a coherent and consistent policy across the various Departments. The agencies that are responsible for the protection of children—local authorities, the police, probation and health departments, which have achieved much at local level—must be supported by a coherent policy nationally. 69 70
 Ms Estelle Morris  (Birmingham, Yardley) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I seek clarification. The clause was lost in Committee, but we went on to consider further clauses that related to it on the understanding that the Government would bring it back on Report. The Government have failed to carry this important new clause, on which later clauses depend. Can we have your guidance on what will happen to clauses that refer to the new clause that has been lost?
 Ms Estelle Morris : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time.
 Ms Morris : My hon. Friend's interest in education and matters of selection and his support for comprehensive education are well known. One of the problems we encountered in Committee was that the Government failed to understand that, if one school decides to select, that decision affects other schools. The legislation not only gives individual schools the right to select, but creates troublesome consequences for all the other schools in the area. My hon. Friend gave some examples of the difficulties that might be caused. 93 94
 Ms Morris : I note that the group includes Government amendment No. 65, with which the Opposition have some sympathy, given that it was tabled in response to points made in Committee. I take this opportunity to thank the Minister for reflecting on the issues and to state our broad agreement with that amendment. 92 "joyously, I might say—we do not know the answer." "I am able to display a degree of indifference".—[ Official Report, Standing Committee D,
 Ms Estelle Morris : How does the hon. Gentleman explain the fact that, since the introduction of comprehensive schools, the number of children achieving five or more passes at GCSE with good grades has gone up from 15 per cent. to more than 40 per cent.? Does he think that that is because of a lowering in the standards of examinations? Does he not realise that that is a sign of real improvement in the standards of so many children who have been educated in the comprehensive system?
 Ms Morris : I am sorry; it is too late. The Under-Secretary of State had her chance and failed to make Government policy clear.
 Ms Estelle Morris : What a mess. One of the prime parts of the Bill before us is to extend primary selection, and the Under-Secretary of State has just said that she does not believe that anyone would use it anyway. I should have thought that, in the dying days of a Government, the Minister could have used legislative time to tackle some of the problems that confront primary school children and primary schools instead of passing a measure that, by her own admission, she does not believe that schools welcome, need or will want to use.
 Ms Morris : The hon. Member for—at the moment—Mid-Worcestershire (Mr. Forth) was engaged in an exchange in Committee in which he made it quite clear that
 "the concept and practice of baseline assessment is now widely agreed as being achievable, practical and desirable. To the extent that this is so … a school should be able to make an assessment of a child, even at the age of five."—[ Official Report, Standing Committee D. 119
 Mrs. Jane Kennedy  (Liverpool, Broadgreen) : I am grateful to you, Madam Speaker, for granting me permission to present a petition on behalf of 3,000 of my constituents on the day when the House has been considering the Sex Offenders Bill, a measure which it is hoped will assist in the supervision of sex offenders, and thereby make life safer for our children.
 Rev. Martin Smyth  (Belfast, South) : I appreciate the Minister's argument, but I press him to re-examine the matter even before we consider it in Committee. His proposal might send a signal to people who have such tendencies and who would be convicted in a British court to commit those offences abroad. I ask the Minister to reconsider his position.
 Sir Patrick Cormack  (South Staffordshire) : If the aim of the provisions is to give added protection and security to the general population and to act as a deterrent to a potential offender, and if that is such a splendid idea, why are the provisions not extended to other categories of dangerous people? There seems to be some illogicality in my right hon. Friend's proposals if he limits them in that way. The Times
 Sir Patrick Cormack : Will not my right hon. Friend give a more robust defence of establishment? Does he agree that one inestimable benefit of establishment is that every man, woman and child in the country has, as of right, the services of the established Church unless he or she is a member of some other religion or sect?
 Sir Sydney Chapman : In welcoming the Government's recent announcement and disagreeing with the uncharacteristically unfair comments by the hon. Member for Leigh (Mr. Cunliffe), for whom I have great regard, I ask my right hon. Friend to confirm that a replacement for Britannia is justified on commercial and trade grounds alone. In answer to those who say that the money might come from the national lottery rather than the taxpayer, will he confirm that everyone who buys a ticket in the national lottery immediately pays 12p to the Treasury? Therefore, if we were to hypothecate, we could say that a fraction of the lottery money will pay for the new royal yacht.
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes : Does my hon. Friend agree that the best way to get people off means-tested benefits is to get them into work? Is it not important, therefore, to recognise that under this Government two jobs have been created every minute since 1992? That figure has not been disputed by the International Labour Organisation or even by the Labour party. The Government are creating jobs. Should not we take the words of the Bishop of Liverpool as endorsing the Government's policies?
 Several hon. Members   rose
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss the following amendments: Government amendment No. 21. 'in accordance with regulations made by the Secretary of State'
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The right hon. Lady must relate her remarks to the Bill before the House.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order The hon. Gentleman is straying from the Bill.
 Dr. Lynne Jones : I do not think that anyone would disagree with the hon. Gentleman's view that marriage—and parenthood in particular—represent an estate on which many people will embark, and that for that reason they should be included in the national curriculum. Surely, however, the hon. Gentleman hit the nail on the head when he said that they were "one of" the key aspects of the national curriculum.
 Dr. Lynne Jones   rose
 Dr. Lynne Jones  (Birmingham, Selly Oak) : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Dr. Lynne Jones : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Berry : Can the Minister confirm that in 1979 one in 12 people were dependent on means-tested benefits and that today the figure has doubled to one in six? Is this not the result of what the Bishop of Liverpool recently described as the "running sores" of unemployment, low pay and poverty, all of which have increased dramatically under the Government?
1.  Mr. Berry : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security what proportion of people are currently dependent on means-tested benefits; and what were the figures for 1979. [11368]
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin : Does my hon. Friend agree that allowing people to opt out of SERPS is exactly what the hon. Member for Newport, West (Mr. Flynn) wants—a move towards a funded income-related scheme and away from a pay-as-you-go state scheme? Until the Labour party understands that we are achieving what it now says it wants, it is unlikely that Labour will be fit to govern.
 Lady Olga Maitland  (Sutton and Cheam) : I note that my hon. Friend has made provision for female pupils to be caned. Is he serious that girls should be caned in school? To be honest, I think that that is barbaric.
 Lady Olga Maitland : I warmly welcome new clause 7, which has been moved by my hon. Friend the Member for Gainsborough and Horncastle (Mr. Leigh). It is not enough to prepare children for adulthood without advocating positively and without any equivocation the importance of a stable and committed marriage and parenthood. There is plenty of evidence to suggest and support the belief that families and children flourish if they develop within the context of a traditional marriage, and that the life chances of a child reared outside that context are very much reduced. 246 "the love and commitment required for a happy childhood can be found in families of different kinds."
 Madam Speaker : Order. The House will come to order.
 Madam Speaker : I have a statement to make arising from the point of order raised by the hon. Member for Linlithgow (Mr. Dalyell) last Thursday. He contended that some parts of recent media comment on the conduct of Members gravely reflected on the good name of the House as a whole. As I hinted last Thursday, the hon. Member's remarks struck a chord with me. It is my impression that damaging comments—often highly generalised—have been common in newspapers, television and radio programmes, books and even learned articles. I believe that I owe it to the House to make some considered points of my own. 154 "The great majority of men and women in British public life are honest and hard-working, and observe high ethical standards". "We would prefer more acknowledgement from the media that the overwhelming majority of public servants work hard and have high standards. We would prefer more recognition of the value of our democratic mechanisms and the dangers of undermining them."
 Madam Speaker : I note what the hon. Gentleman has said, but I am sure that he will understand that it is not for the Chair to take any action in the matter—that is entirely for the Government, whose legislation it is. The hon. Gentleman may well have heard that, during Prime Minister's Question Time, the matter was raised with the Prime Minister, who left the impression with the House that he believed that it was now being discussed with the usual channels. Certainly, it is not a matter for me at this stage. No doubt we shall hear more about it later.
 Madam Speaker : That is barely a point of order. No arguments. We have dealt with that. It is over and done with. Let us move on to the Bill, and take positive action with new clause 10.
 Madam Speaker : Order. As the right hon. Gentleman is aware, this is Question Time, when the Government answer questions.
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : Order. This is turning into a mini-speech.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : No, the hon. Member has finished.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss the following amendments: No. 52, in clause 35, page 29, line 36, after 'Curriculum', insert
 '(to the extent that they are not required under subsection (2)(a) of section (School performance targets in literacy)).'. '(1A) A governing body shall, before setting annual targets for pupils in the school in accordance with subsection (1) above, consult the local education authority and have regard to its views in setting such targets'
 Madam Deputy Speaker : I can confirm that the present debate is perfectly in order.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Lady must remember that she is addressing me.
 Mr. Alan Howarth : Does the Secretary of State accept that the data-matching powers in the fraud Bill will prejudice privacy and confer unprecedented powers on the state? Will he give constructive consideration to the case for introducing into the Bill a code of practice to ensure that central and local government departments and contracted agencies comply with the best international standards for data protection?
 The Minister for Social Security and Disabled People (Mr. Alistair Burt) : We have a comprehensive strategy, which is strengthened by the current fraud Bill, to combat all housing benefit fraud, including landlord fraud. We support local authorities through an incentive scheme and, now, through challenge funding, £8 million of challenge funds were made available to authorities in 1996–97, and we will double that to £16 million in 1997–98. We are also setting up an inspectorate to help to ensure that all authorities tackle fraud effectively.
 Mr. Burt : I do not recognise all the figures given by the hon. Lady. Housing benefit fraud is estimated at about £1 billion, and landlord fraud constitutes about £150 million of that, so it is not the largest part.
 Mr. Burt : My hon. Friend makes an excellent point. It is important for the private rented market to continue to expand; it is important to the integrity of benefit for it to be properly handled, and for fraud to be clamped down. We are prepared to consider ideas advanced by all kinds of authority, and, indeed, the local authority in the constituency of the hon. Member for Liverpool, Broadgreen (Mrs. Kennedy) has received a £140,000 challenge fund grant to help it to root out more landlord fraud.
 Mr. Burt : The only way to determine the precise number not taking up their entitlement would be for them to come forward and make a claim. However, the most recent figures suggest that between 800,000 and 1.1 million pensioners have an unclaimed entitlement to income support.
 Mr. Burt : The Government are in no way complacent about those figures. It is the responsibility of the
 145
 Mr. Burt : I can make that commitment to maintain the value of the pension. I am sure that my hon. Friend and the House will be happy to learn that, while 31 per cent. of those in the lowest tenth by income of the population in 1979 were pensioners, today that figure is only 7 per cent. Our commitment to maintain the value of the pension in line with inflation is clear. We have not threatened to means-test it, as has been suggested by Opposition Members.
 Mr. Burt : I am more than happy to agree with my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary, who was entirely right. The hon. Gentleman's bluster would mean a great deal more if he committed himself and his colleagues to a take-up campaign that would deal with the problem that we face. No such commitment has been made, either while we were considering the Bill or since. It is all bluster and no money up front from Labour Members. We will continue to make sure that benefits are available to all who need them and to publicise them. The considerable advance in the position of pensioners under this Government is likely to continue only under the economic policies advocated by the Conservatives.
 Mr. Burt : My hon. Friend is correct. It is not possible to define in every circumstance why someone has not taken up a benefit. It may further reassure the House to know that local authorities are now under a general obligation, set out in our guidance, to use whatever information they have if it is suggested that someone might have a claim for benefit. We have also provided local authorities with the software to assist them in that task. The matter is much more complex than the Opposition suggest. If they are to work, take-up campaigns must be properly targeted. That was the case with family credit, and we increased the number of people claiming it. We shall continue our efforts to ensure that all those who need benefits get them.
Q2.  Mr. Miller : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Tuesday 28 January. [11399]
 Mr. Miller : I remind the Prime Minister of his words at Question Time on 28 January 1992, as this is the fifth anniversary of his pledge not to increase value added tax. Will he apologise to the millions of pensioners who this winter have had to pay the VAT that he imposed on their gas and electricity bills?
 Mr. Mitchell : We all care about helping the people whom the hon. Gentleman has just described. The Labour party has a pretty strange definition of poverty: it means that when we increase income support levels, its measure of poverty also increases. The Government have a range of policies designed to help people back into work. In the lone parent area, the hon. Gentleman will know of the importance of the after-school kiddies clubs, which have been greatly expanded under the Government's programme. The Government have put £24 million on the table to help expand that form of after-school child care. I reject what the hon. Gentleman said, and underline the Government's success in helping people back into work.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Social Security (Mr. Andrew Mitchell) : The latest estimate is that 26.4 per cent. of the population live in households receiving income support, family credit, disability working allowance, housing benefit or council tax benefit. It is not possible to make a direct comparison with the position in 1979 since the present structure of the benefits did not exist then.
 Mr. Mitchell : I am surprised at the question that the hon. Gentleman has asked. He should know that unemployment benefit takes up about 10 per cent. of the Department of Social Security budget. He should condemn the Opposition Front Bench, which wants means testing to be extended. In the unlikely event of a Labour Government being returned after the next general election, I understand that Labour's proposals are to means-test both child benefit and the state pension, which would mean a significant increase in means testing. 136
 Mr. Mitchell : My hon. Friend is right. The Government's policy is dedicated to getting people back into work. It has been extremely successful, as my hon. Friend has pointed out. Since the general election, unemployment has fallen by more than 1 million. The United Kingdom has more of its citizens in work and fewer unemployed than any other major European country.
 Mr. Rowe : I am most grateful. Has my hon. Friend been able to make any assessment of how many of the children excluded from school have the kind of parent who would accede to such a request, and of how effective corporal punishment would be on the damaged children who are most commonly excluded?
 Mr. Rowe : Will my hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Rowe : Will my hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Andrew Rowe  (Mid-Kent) : Will my hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Rowe : Will my hon. Friend give way?
8.  Mr. Austin Mitchell : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security what estimate he has made of the number of pensioners entitled to income support who do not claim it. [11376]
 Mr. Mitchell : Why are the Government so complacent about that extraordinarily high number of pensioners not claiming income support? The income of those million pensioners not claiming income support is £14 a week lower and they are not entitled to cold weather payments. Other estimates suggest that 800,000 of those pensioners are single women living on their own with no occupational pension and no savings. If the Government believe in targeted benefits, should they not be seeking out those people and ensuring that they get the money to which they are entitled, instead of wringing their hands and being complacent because they are saving money?
10.  Mr. Barry Jones : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security what assessment he has made of the effectiveness of his cold weather payments; and if he will make a statement. [11378]
 Mr. Jones : Will the Minister look at the undoubted anomalies in this system? For example, in my constituency of Deeside payments are dictated by readings at RAF Valley, 90 miles to the west and warmed by the Irish sea. When the polar wind blew, many pensioners' domestic budgets were blown to smithereens because they only had enough money to heat their homes. Will the Minister please be more generous, and review the system thoroughly?
 Mr. Bill Walker : My hon. Friend will be aware that our cold weather payments scheme quite properly takes account of the differences in temperature throughout the United Kingdom. Does he recall that southern Ireland—Eire—receives massive sums of our taxpayers' funds from Europe and is therefore spending our money?
Q6.  Mr. Charles Kennedy : To ask the Prime Minister what plans he has to pay an official visit to the highlands and islands. [11403]
 Mr. Kennedy : That being the case, may I invite the Prime Minister to take this opportunity to explain to local people a glaring inconsistency that emerged over the weekend and that they have difficulty comprehending? Why is it that, on a £60 million contract, public money is ruled in and private finance is completely ruled out; yet, on a contract of half that value and one that is fundamental to the interests of the people of the west coast of the highlands, the Isle of Skye and, indeed, the Western Isles constituency, which is one of the lowest-income parts of the country, the public sector is completely ruled out, private finance imposed and people now face the highest toll bridge charges, not only in Europe but probably in the world, for a future generation?
 Mr. Cynog Dafis  (Ceredigion and Pembroke, North) : In considering new clause 10, I should like only to express—in a non-carping manner—my surprise and disappointment that it provides for a general teaching
 166
 Mr. Dafis : No, we have not got round to discussing pounds, shillings and pence—or pounds and pence, or whatever we have these days. However, I have been given the impression that Labour envisages that its assembly in Wales will have power to do something significantly different. 167
 Mr. Dafis : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Blunkett : I accept your ruling, Mr. Deputy Speaker. We should heed the words that are so important to lifting standards, at which at least part of the Bill is aimed, to ensure that there is hope that young people will have a job, training and a future to look forward to. 260
 Mr. David Blunkett  (Sheffield, Brightside) : I should like to put on record my considerable thanks, appreciation and congratulations to my colleagues, not only those who have served on the Front Bench, but those who served on Standing Committee D. Over the past two days, they have contributed to a magnificent effort and ensured that, last night, we were able to expose Conservative Members' real commitment. 258 259
 Mr. Hinchliffe : If the hon. Gentleman is saying that it did him the world of good, why is he sitting on the Conservative Benches? 222
 Mr. Hinchliffe : In my opinion, corporal punishment is in itself an abuse of children.
 Mr. David Hinchliffe  (Wakefield) : I could have gone to the theatre tonight, but I am glad that I did not because the speech of the hon. Member for Rugby and Kenilworth (Mr. Pawsey) was hilarious and I am grateful for the entertainment that he provided. Anyone who took the issue seriously could no longer do so having heard the hon. Gentleman. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Hinchliffe : My hon. Friend makes his point well. I heard one or two hon. Members saying that they would subscribe to the dictionary definition in its entirety.
 Mr. Hinchliffe : My hon. Friend the Member for Morley and Leeds, South (Mr. Gunnell) makes the point that the hon. Member for Rugby and Kenilworth did not exactly discourage those of his colleagues who were more enthusiastic than he was about making bestial noises on this subject; nor has he intervened to define "reasonable" and "unreasonable". May I invite him instead to tell us what he regards as inhuman and degrading punishment?
 Mr. Jamieson : Is my hon. Friend aware that the "Oxford English Dictionary" definition of corporal punishment is as follows:
 "Punishment inflicted on the body, originally including death, mutilation, branding, bodily confinement, irons, the pillory, etc."?
 Mr. Jamieson : Will the hon. Gentleman assist the House by informing us which party was in government when corporal punishment was abolished in the 1980s?
 Mr. Jamieson : I am interested in what the Minister has just said. She described the problems that the Government are having with the Bill as transitory. How do the Government intend to reintroduce new clause 3?
 Mr. David Jamieson  (Plymouth, Devonport) : There is a difference between literacy and numeracy and other aspects of technology, because literacy is that which underpins all learning. Reading, writing, listening and speaking skills are absolutely essential to learning numeracy or any other subject in the curriculum. We are saying that literacy is so important because it is the fundamental base for all learning; in that sense, it differs from the other skills that the Minister mentioned.
6.  Sir David Knox : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security what proportion of those retiring now are in receipt of occupational pensions; and what he estimates the proportion will be in 10 years' time. [11374]
 Sir David Knox : Does my hon. Friend agree that adequate occupational pensions have done a great deal to ease poverty and anxiety among retired people and that further extension of them is essential if retired people are to live fuller and more satisfying lives?
 Mr. David Shaw  (Dover) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Last night there seems to have been some confusion about the vote. There have been reports on the media today that the vote was other than as recorded in  Hansard.
 Mr. David Shaw : Will my hon. Friend confirm that the biggest ever waste in social security spending occurred when unemployment doubled in five years under a Labour Government? Will he also confirm that, in 18 years, unemployment has not become double what it was in 1979?
 Mr. David Wilshire  (Spelthorne) : Although I have no Nolan-type interests in the debate, I do have some relevant experience to declare. I was at the receiving end of corporal punishment when I was at school. It was probably richly deserved, and I have not the slightest idea now whether it did any good or any harm. However, as it happened more than once, I guess it did not act as a deterrent. I am the parent of two children, both of whom were smacked by my wife and by me when they were young. That had the desired effect at the time, and they do not appear to have suffered any physical or psychological damage.
 Mr. Wilshire : I understand my hon. Friend's point. New clause 4, which we dealt with yesterday, achieves those aims—which is why I voted for it enthusiastically. 226 Staines Informer Staines Informer [Laughter.]
 Mr. Winnick : Will the Prime Minister take this opportunity to congratulate the present right hon. Member for Chelsea (Sir N. Scott) on his honesty? He said in an interview on Friday that it was most unlikely that the Government would be re-elected. Is that not the real reason why the Prime Minister is so terrified of calling the general election and clings desperately to office day by day? Does he consider it dignified to carry on to the very last moment so that he can stay at No. 10?
Q3.  Mr. Winnick : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Tuesday 28 January. [11400]
 Mr. Winnick : Is the Minister aware that when some of my hon. Friends and I went to No. 10 Downing street at the end of December to deliver a letter, although it had been extremely cold for some 10 days, no cold weather payments had been made during that time, causing untold misery and hardship to many pensioners on low incomes? Why are the Government so determined to oppose the measure that my hon. Friend the Member for Preston (Mrs. Wise) wanted to introduce to deal with the chill factor? Does that not show that the Government do not care a damn about those in need?
4.  Mr. Winnick : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security what representations he received during the recent cold weather about cold weather payments. [11372]
 Mr. Denis MacShane  (Rotherham) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. MacShane : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for praising the NUT in a previous speech. No doubt that praise will be suitably noted.
 Mr. Don Foster : The hon. Member for Rugby and Kenilworth (Mr. Pawsey) was absolutely right to express concern about the number of exclusions in our schools and the damage that does to the education of those young people. He then told the House that the most fundamental question we had to address tonight was: which was more damaging to children—exclusion from school or caning? He was absolutely wrong. The fundamental question was posed to him by the hon. Member for Mid-Kent (Mr. Rowe): was there any evidence whatsoever to show that the reintroduction of corporal punishment would reduce the number of exclusions from schools?
 Mr. Foster : No, time is very short. "there is little evidence that Corporal Punishment was in general an effective deterrent either to the pupils punished or to other pupils." 230 "You said you'd been caned frequently at school; but doesn't this mean you behaved badly again and again to get such treatment—you didn't learn your lesson." "It didn't make a difference to the way you behaved, did it? What makes you think it'll work for us?"
 Mr. Foster : No doubt the Minister is hoping that I will refer to some of his would-be future constituents and give
 185
 Mr. Foster : The hon. Lady has failed to understand the principles underlying the Government's proposals. Let me explain. At present, it is perfectly possible for a popular school to expand its numbers subject to approval and the appropriate funding becoming available within the local education authority arrangements, but those arrangements require the publication of the appropriate statutory notices, the appropriate consultation and, if there are objections, the ultimate opportunity for the Secretary of State to reject those proposals if, for example, he believes that they may have significant damaging effects on the education provided in neighbouring schools. "the pursuit of a wide range of competing objectives has generated tensions and conflicts … and risks the school planning system becoming gridlocked." 186
 Mr. Foster : I pay tribute to the hon. Lady for her consistent concern for the educational provision in her constituency. I cannot speak as eloquently as she does about her area, as she knows it far better than I do. I merely assure her that according to the Audit Commission report, one of the key blocks to the ability of LEAs to take out surplus places is existing Government policy, particularly the policy that has been promoting competition between schools so vigorously. The hon. Lady shakes her head, but that is what the report says. She cannot deny that.
 Mr. Don Foster : The Minister is talking about the removal of surplus places. A short while ago she referred to the Audit Commission's report. For the enlightenment
 192
 Mr. Don Foster : On a point of order, Madam Deputy Speaker. The Minister is suggesting that the debate is not in order because it was not agreed that new clause 3 should stand part of the Bill. Would I be correct in reminding the House, Madam Deputy Speaker, that you gave a ruling when I raised the matter yesterday? You said that it would be perfectly in order to discuss the matters that have been raised in this debate, and that it was for the Government to sort out the difficulties that they have created.
 Mr. Don Foster : As the Minister said, the debate has been wide ranging, and rightly so, because this important issue goes to the heart of the difference between the Opposition's approach to planning for education and that of the Government. Liberal Democrats believe that there should be an element of strategic planning to maximise parental choice. I would argue that that view is supported by the conclusions of the Audit Commission's report, which makes it clear that the Government's policies are leading not to increased parental choice but to reduced choice.
 Mr. Foster : The hon. Gentleman has referred to that confusion on a number of occasions. He rightly points to the fact that neither this Minister nor any other Minister has ever answered that question.
 Mr. Don Foster : It is a great pity that a lengthy and unnecessary debate on corporal punishment meant that many important amendments were not discussed today. 261
 Mr. Don Foster  (Bath) : I am absolutely delighted to follow the hon. Member for Crosby (Sir M. Thornton), whose involvement in the issue and whose concern for it is well known by hon. Members on both sides of the House. I agree with the vast majority of what he says, but I come to a different conclusion. 164
 Mr. Don Foster : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time. 181
 Mr. Don Foster : Would it be possible under current legislation for a local education authority to include in its admission arrangements the procedures that I propose in the new clause?
 Mr. Don Foster : Many LEAs will be interested in the debate and will take note of the Minister's clear assurance that it is within their present power to introduce the admission arrangements set out in the new clause.
 Mr. Don Foster : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time. 183
 Mr. Foster : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for making that point. He was present in the Standing Committee and is aware of the amazing juxtaposition of those dates. The day after we concluded our deliberations in Committee, the report was published. Had it been available to us in Committee, we might have had an even more well-informed debate on the Government's proposals. 184 "'choice' is primarily exercised by the schools deciding which pupils they will accept … rather than by parents deciding which school their children will attend."
 Mr. Foster : The right hon. Gentleman asks me to name them. I have not yet had the opportunity on the Floor of the House to congratulate the Minister on his recent elevation and I do so now, but I strongly suggest that he should talk to LEAs such as Richmond and ask them about the serious difficulties created by the Greenwich judgment.
 Sir Donald Thompson : Will my hon. Friend ensure that he pursues landlord fraud vigorously in Liverpool, London or wherever it occurs? At the end of the day, it makes honest landlords less likely to let their properties and, consequently, makes honest people looking for property less likely to find any.
 Mr. Loyden : Instead of spending public money on building the proposed royal yacht, will the Prime Minister consider using that money to kick-start the shipyards of this country so that our shipyard workers can get back to work to build ships in which our unemployed merchant seamen can sail?
 Mr. Leigh : I am grateful for the generous way in which my hon. Friend has dealt with our concerns. In view of the fact that he said that we were knocking on an open door and that our right hon. Friend the Secretary of State has particularly seized on the arguments that we have made this evening, I am happy to beg to ask leave to withdraw the motion.
 Mr. Leigh : I am grateful for that point. I shall refer to it in detail, but marriage and parenthood are such an integral part of life that they should be part of the national curriculum, and should be taught. 242 "Parenting can be carried out just as successfully by people who are not necessarily the child's natural parents." "Deb and Philip had been together for two years, and … they both had other close friends with whom they slept occasionally". "support families in raising children and caring for dependants, support the institution of marriage" "recognise that the love and commitment required for a secure and happy childhood can be found in families of different kinds".
 Mr. Leigh : Yes. I am glad that my hon. Friend has made that point. I will return to it. We should not frame national policy making on the basis just of the lowest common denominator, but seek to provide an example to young people. The Sunday Telegraph "voluntary union for life of one man and one woman to the exclusion of all others."
 Mr. Leigh : I am very glad that I gave way to my hon. Friend, because his point leads directly to the one made by Norman Dennis, a Labour party member and
 244 [Interruption.] 245
 Mr. Edward Leigh  (Gainsborough and Horncastle) : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time. "opportunities, responsibilities and experiences of adult life." 241
 Mr. Forth : A debate on our membership of the Council of Europe and our adherence to the European convention on human rights awaits another day. It is my advice that as long as we are a signatory to that convention, we must adhere to it and to the rulings of its court. 235
 Mr. Forth : No. I shall not give way at this stage. I apologise to my hon. Friend.
 Mr. Forth : I am not giving way to my hon. Friend or other hon. Friends. I want to take up the point made by my hon. Friend the Member for Lancaster (Dame E. Kellett-Bowman); it is possibly the most crucial of all the arguments.
 Mr. Forth : I shall not give way at this stage.
 Mr. Forth : I shall give way, but I must seek to make rapid progress.
 Mr. Forth : It is about 10 years since corporal punishment was last debated in the House. I shall leave it to others to decide whether this debate was worth waiting for. My hon. Friends the Members for Northampton, North (Mr. Marlow) and for Rugby and Kenilworth (Mr. Pawsey), as we expected, argued their cases with commitment. We were not disappointed. I hope that it will come as no surprise to the House when I say that the Government will resist the new clauses. 234
 Mr. Forth : It seems that my hon. Friend and I have received conflicting advice, which is not unusual in legal matters. I must rest on the advice that I have received. The prohibition of corporal punishment in state schools in 1986 was prompted by the 1982 ruling of the European Court of Human Rights that the United Kingdom was in breach of article 2 of protocol 1 to the convention. The court found that UK law failed to respect the philosophical convictions of parents who were opposed to schools using corporal punishment for their children. I believe, therefore, that new clause 6 falls at the first hurdle, and would be in breach of the European convention. As the United Kingdom is a signatory to the convention, my hon. Friend's approach would not work.
 Mr. Forth : My hon. Friends who have spoken in support of the new clause are knocking on an open door. Few would take issue with the substance of what they say. I ask them to reconsider pressing the clause at this stage, for pragmatic and practical reasons. 247
 Mr. Forth : I will.
 Mr. Forth : We have come to recognise that Labour Members believe that, if they peddle a shibboleth often enough, people might begin to believe it. I shall explain why not all parents seem to have been persuaded of the much-repeated shibboleth about class size, and I shall name names. Before I do so, I note that, at the very least, we have seen Labour Members backing off from some of the wilder claims that they used to make on the subject. The wording of the new clause is modest, to put it mildly. "The Secretary of State may make grants to local education authorities for the purposes of"
 Mr. Forth : If the hon. Gentleman is seeking to subvert the long-established principle that, as we have always recognised, elected, accountable LEAs should make their own decisions on their priorities or that schools should make their own decisions on how they spend their money—whether on more teachers, buildings, books, equipment, or whatever—it marks a significant departure for Labour Members. "at best not clear cut and at worst contradictory". 203
 Mr. Forth : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his kind remarks. I was inviting him to name some of the children who are trekking across London to better schools. I thought that the House might be illuminated by that information.
 Mr. Forth : Will the hon. Gentleman name them?
 Mr. Forth : It is a matter of judgment whether we are ready for that degree of prescription. Opposition Members—perhaps the hon. Lady herself—have criticised the Government over the years for introducing too much central prescription and control in education. One of the ironies of recent developments is that we are in danger of being overtaken on the fast track by Opposition Members, such as the hon. Lady, who want Government to prescribe even more than the Department for Education and Employment has suggested. The hon. Lady may like to ponder that point.
 Mr. Forth : The hon. Gentleman and I will have to agree to disagree on that point. I do not think that his analysis is accurate, nor that it merits inclusion on the face of statute, which would be the effect of the new clause. 179
 Mr. Forth : As the hon. Lady pointed out, new clause 11 is intended to focus schools' attention on their pupils'
 178
 The Minister of State, Department for Education and Employment (Mr. Eric Forth) : This important debate has raised several points, not least of which is a paradox apparent in what has been said by almost all those who have spoken. Everyone has agreed that there is widespread support among teachers for the idea of a general teaching council. The word "unanimous" has been used several times. I am always slightly wary of that word, particularly when we are talking about nearly half a million people, but I am prepared to accept the belief of all those who have spoken—not least my hon. Friends the Members for Crosby (Sir M. Thornton) and for Carshalton and Wallington (Mr. Forman)—that there is widespread, nay overwhelming, support among teachers for some form of general teaching council. That appears to be a widespread view in the House today.
 Mr. Forth : That is a helpful point, which I shall come to in a moment. What my hon. Friend said depends on further conditions being met. In any case, let us suppose that a council might make a contribution of the kind that is sought. As my hon. Friend the Member for Crosby pointed out, there are still other matters to be resolved. 168 169
 Sir Fergus Montgomery : Whenever the general election comes, will my right hon. Friend promise that, when he leads our party into it, he will not pledge to spend £30 billion more on public expenditure while at the same time saying that there will be no increase in taxation?
 Mr. Frank Field : After 18 years of Conservative rule, will the Minister tell the House how many pensioners are still poor?
 Mr. Field : How many are in poverty?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : That is for the Chair to decide.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : That is not a point of order for me. The hon. Gentleman is responsible for his own speech, as he knows.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss the following amendments: No. 53, in clause 63, page 47, line 11, leave out 'or'. 'or (d) any other person who arranges, whether under contract or otherwise, for another person to be a short-term or temporary teacher'.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss new clause 6— Corporal punishment lawful in certain circumstances 'For section 548 (no right to give corporal punishment), section 549 (interpretation of section 548) and section 550 (no avoidance of section 548 by refusing admission to school) of the Education Act 1996 the following section is substituted—
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I made it clear at the start that interventions should be brief and to the point. That applies to all hon. Members who participate in the debate.
 Mr. Steinberg   rose
 Mr. Steinberg : I shall be brief, as many hon. Members want to speak. I understand the frustration of many Members and others who want the cane to be reintroduced. Since I left the teaching profession 10 years ago, the situation in the classroom has got worse and worse. Many schools and teachers are having a difficult time. 227 228
 Mr. Steinberg : I understand the hon. Gentleman's argument, but what worries me is that such a body would become the profession's disciplinary watchdog. I personally would not want it to go down that line. I believe that present mechanisms adequately cater for bad teachers, and there are disciplinary measures in schools and local authorities. I would not want a specific watchdog to be set up as the be all and end all of discipline in our education system. That would be going down the wrong path.
 Mr. Steinberg : I thank my hon. Friend—for I have been working along with him for so long that I now regard him as such. He has spoken of all-party consensus. Does he envisage a leading role and a majority say for the teaching profession on the governing body of the council?
 Mr. Gerry Steinberg  (City of Durham) : I have listened carefully to what my hon. Friend has said, and I accept that the reason why we do not have a GTC now is that the Government have continuously opposed it, at least since I entered the House in 1987. "rules and guidance as to the professional conduct and discipline of teachers".
Q1.  Mr. Harry Greenway : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Tuesday 28 January. [11398]
 Mr. Greenway : Will my right hon. Friend confirm the Government's continued support for successful schools? Will he sympathise with the head teachers and governors of St. Olave's and the London Oratory schools who will have difficulty in expanding their schools, even to accommodate more children of hypocritical Labour Front Benchers, if the Opposition have their way?
 Mr. Harry Greenway : What the hon. Gentleman has described is a serious abuse of corporal punishment, not moderate and reasonable corporal punishment. I do not believe that corporal punishment should ever be used in response to bad or late work, or in the absurd cases cited by the hon. Gentleman: it must be strictly confined to
 223
 Mr. Harry Greenway  (Ealing, North) : From my 23 years' experience in the teaching profession, including 12 years at a comprehensive with 1,100 boys at King's Cross, I believe that there is a place for moderate and reasonable corporal punishment, but I have not yet understood from my hon. Friend's argument how the new
 219
2.  Mr. Bellingham : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security what plans he has for avoiding fraud in the benefit system; and if he will make a statement. [11369]
 Mr. Bellingham : I am grateful to the Secretary of State for outlining the action that the Government are taking. Will he join me in paying tribute to the staff in the King's Lynn benefits office, who work very hard to tackle fraud in Norfolk and elsewhere? Is he aware of a particular problem in Norfolk due to the recent arrival from eastern Europe of illegal immigrants who have sought work and, in some cases, benefits? Does he agree that such abuse must be tackled? What is he doing about it?
 Mr. McLeish : Will the Minister explain why, after the Secretary of State for Social Security has spent an extra £15 billion on welfare in the past four years, pensioners and poor families throughout Britain still have to make a choice between eating and heating? Does the Minister accept that cuts in home insulation and the imposition of value added tax on fuel have only worsened the plight of
 141
 Mr. Dykes : There has been spectacular growth in private pensions—which have given the elderly new horizons and new freedoms, and are a matter of great pride for Conservative Members. None the less, is my hon. Friend satisfied that expenses and commissions on the new pension schemes are now under adequate control?
 Mr. Bruce : The hon. Lady need not make her speech again. I oppose the new clause.
 Mr. Ian Bruce : I must declare an interest as an adviser to the Federation of Recruitment and Employment Services and as someone who ran an active employment agency and still owns an employment agency that is not active. I am surprised that the hon. Member for Barking (Ms Hodge), who has now been fully briefed on the issue, should continue to try to turn the tables on employment agencies. It is well known that the hon. Lady, when she was the leader of a certain council, presided over a situation in which that council did not vet teachers.
 Mr. Bruce : I am sorry—social workers. As a result, the wrong social workers were employed. Employment agencies that want to supply teachers currently have to go to the local education authority to get vetting done, because the agencies do not have access to the information. Many local education authorities, especially in the north of England, have tried to stop agencies vetting. 211
 Mr. Bruce : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. The hon. Gentleman mentioned me by name and said that I was wrong, but he has not given any figures to substantiate his claim.
 Mr. Ian Bruce : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Ian Bruce : So is Labour going to put some more money in?
 Mr. Ian Bruce  (South Dorset) : The hon. Gentleman appears to be repeating himself about the reduction in class sizes. Does he not realise that the average cost of an assisted place is less than the amount that is put into the education budget for a place in any inner-London school?
 Mr. Jack Thompson  (Wansbeck) : Will the hon. Member give way on that point?
 Mr. Jacques Arnold  (Gravesham) : I support the new clause because I start from the premise that we demand of our teachers—especially our head teachers—that they maintain an orderly and disciplined school; only in that framework can they provide the environment for disciplined education and learning. My concern is that, since the 1960s, we have progressively withdrawn all the sanctions, controls and deterrents with which teachers can maintain discipline.
 Mr. Arnold : It was a Conservative Government with Labour local education authorities. I will return to that point later. 224
 Mr. Arnold : Parents and teachers have contacted me—I shall refer later to teachers' views on the subject. The new clause proposes that a deterrent be placed at the disposal of schools to be exercised according to the judgment of head teachers. I think that all hon. Members will agree that teachers are professionals who can exercise good judgment. That is a key element of the new clause. Since the 1960s, we have increasingly sent defenceless teachers into the classroom, and it is no surprise that they have avoided maintaining discipline or tried to pass the buck to someone else—invariably unsuccessfully.
 Mr. Jacques Arnold : Will my hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Arnold : Was not the whole point of the convention to provide an avenue of judicial recourse for individuals in France and Italy, were their countries to go communist, so that they might have protection against what happened to individuals in eastern Europe? As that circumstance no longer exists in Europe, is it not high time that the convention in its current form were scrapped?
 Mr. Pawsey : This has been a particularly interesting debate. 236 237
 Mr. Pawsey : Only by you.
 Mr. Pawsey : I would leave it up to the school. I am anxious that schools should have greater powers. I want individual schools to express their views on the issue. I agree with the hon. Member for Birmingham, Yardley (Ms Morris), who said:
 "I trust head teachers to behave in a way that protects their pupils and to ensure that members of staff behave in the most professional manner."— [Official Report, Standing Committee D, "When I started in 1958 I very occasionally caned the odd miscreant so that the class could study quietly and listen and learn. Children knew that they were expected to behave reasonably and that there were sanctions if they did not."
 Mr. Pawsey : My hon. Friend makes a strong point, and I am grateful to him.
 Mr. Pawsey : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his helpful advice, but I do not intend to take it. I am convinced that I am being sufficiently robust; I am spelling out in some detail the fact that the new clause is responsible and would improve the quality and standard of state education in our schools.
 Mr. Pawsey : If the hon. Gentleman will forgive me, I will not give way.
 Mr. Pawsey : The decision is not one that my hon. Friend or I will make—it is a matter for the school. If it is thought appropriate in a specific case—
 Mr. Pawsey : I think that the House will agree that learning best takes place in a reasonably disciplined environment. The new clause will merely ensure that
 220
 Mr. Pawsey : Let me make it absolutely clear that my advocacy of corporal punishment owes nothing at all to hard cash. It is based on the truism that a pound funding exclusion is a pound less for schools—a pound less that we might use in the classroom. I believe, therefore, that exclusions can be regarded as a misuse of scarce
 217
 Mr. Pawsey : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time.
 Mr. Pawsey : No. I shall give way in a moment, but I want to make some progress.
 Mr. Pawsey : The hon. Gentleman clearly knows much about the subject and I congratulate him on the strength of his intervention. He makes a valid point and I am grateful to him.
 Mr. Pawsey : I am sorry that I gave way to my hon. Friend, whose intervention was not worthy of his intellect.
 Mr. Pawsey : I accept that a blanket provision, for the period of a child's school life, is simply not on. I now give way to my hon. and persistent Friend.
 Mr. Pawsey : I shall give way presently.
 Mr. Pawsey : The answer to my hon. Friend's first question is certainly yes. I have in front of me  The Sunday Telegraph
 Mr. Pawsey : Let me make a little progress. 218
 Mr. James Pawsey  (Rugby and Kenilworth) : We are listening to the hon. Gentleman's speech, and we are enjoying it.
 Mr. Pawsey : I shall briefly, and somewhat unusually, say what the new clause is not about. It is not about beating, thrashing, flogging or any of the other emotive phrases so beloved by those who oppose corporal punishment. New clause 5 is about discipline in schools and caning. It is, at all times, about reasonable punishment.
 Mr. Jeremy Corbyn  (Islington, North) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I apologise for raising a point of order at this time, but I wonder whether there is any way of urgently contacting a Home Office Minister in connection with the hunger strike at Rochester prison—
 Sir Jerry Wiggin  (Weston-super-Mare) : First, I thank my hon. Friend the Minister for Construction, Planning and Energy Efficiency for taking the trouble to reply to the debate this evening. I am conscious that the hinge on which I have to hang ministerial responsibility is not the direct planning issue that I am about to raise. I hope that my hon. Friend will be tolerant when I describe the events that have persuaded me to draw ministerial attention to the history of the Willowmead temporary gipsy caravan site.
 Sir Jerry Wiggin : Avon county council, which has emerged from this matter with no credit, was a Labour-controlled council, supported and kept in power by a substantial number of Liberal Democrats. The council claimed that the Willowmead site had planning permission for holiday caravans. The truth is that most of the site had been used for the construction of the new highway. The amount that remained allowed space for only three static vans, and in any event the planning permission had been withdrawn. 263 "I have noted your concerns about the latest application, and can understand your constituents' disappointment at the latest turn of events. However, as you are aware, the Government's policy is that planning applications are best left, as far as possible, in the hands of locally-accountable planning authorities. The Secretary of State is therefore very selective in deciding which applications to call-in,
 264 265 "Nothing is more likely to cause heartfelt anxiety to local residents."
 Mr. Jim Cunningham  (Coventry, South-East) : I beg to move,
 That leave be given to bring in a Bill to control the level of aircraft noise at airports and aerodromes; and for connected purposes. 156
 Mr. John Carlisle  (Luton, North) : Does my hon. Friend agree that he is being a little mealy-mouthed, on the basis that a good, sound thrashing is to the advantage of the child and of the local authority that pays for that child? Will he be a little more robust in his arguments in the remainder of his speech?
 Mr. John Carlisle : Many Conservative Members have suffered the indignity of caning, which most Opposition Members probably have not suffered, for various reasons such as fathers' income. Will the hon. Gentleman accept that no clothing had to be removed? In fact, many of us put cardboard in our pants in an attempt to remit the punishment. It was degrading and painful, weals were put on one's buttocks and blood was drawn, but it was done on the basis that, because of the punishment, one did not commit that particular offence again. That is what the new clause is all about.
 Mr. Carlisle : My hon. Friend is a very dear and close friend; he will forgive me if I do not give way.
 Mr. John Carlisle : The speech by the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Foster) was the most extraordinary intervention that the House has heard for some time. I suppose that the hon. Gentleman would recommend some form of counselling so that those poor youngsters could talk it out of their system. He and the House know that that is complete nonsense. 231
 Mr. Carlisle : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for making one of his rare visits from Switzerland. He has given his wisdom to the House, of which it will have taken note. The Prime Minister must make his own decision. I am pleased that the Secretary of State for Education and Employment has some sympathy with the views that have been expressed by Conservative Members.
 Mr. Carlisle : I give way to the hon. Gentleman in the red cardigan.
 Mr. Denham : The Minister says that he is not complacent. Does he agree with the Under-Secretary of State for Social Security, his hon. Friend the Member for North Hertfordshire (Mr. Heald), who told the Standing Committee considering the Social Security Administration (Fraud) Bill in December:
 "we do not know why certain pensioners do not take up income support"?—[ Official Report, Standing Committee E,
 Mr. Gunnell : Does my hon. Friend agree that the hon. Member for Rugby and Kenilworth (Mr. Pawsey) made
 221
 Mr. Gunnell : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Gunnell : That is a contentious statement. If the hon. Gentleman takes into account the spending and grants per head in Westminster, he will find it very hard to take the view that Labour authorities consistently spend more than Conservative authorities. Labour authorities are certainly more concerned with the level of public services that they provide. I do not think that his thesis holds water.
 Mr. Gunnell : I am sure that the hon. Gentleman is enjoying my speech. 200
 Mr. Gunnell : He might find some research that shows that other factors are very important, but he will not find any that shows that class size has no effect on pupil performance. Popular belief is backed by evidence and research. Much research on class size has been conducted in the United States, and it all points to the fact that reducing class numbers is relevant to pupils' progress.
 201
 Mr. Gunnell : The hon. Gentleman intervenes from a sedentary position. If he wants to make a point, he can do so. Is he anxious to make that point?
 Mr. John Gunnell  (Morley and Leeds, South) : I back my hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool, Walton (Mr. Kilfoyle). The new clause does not explicitly say anything about the assisted places scheme, but my hon. Friend is correct to point out that the new clause states:
 "The Secretary of State for Education and Employment may make grants to local education authorities for the purposes of securing reductions in numbers in classes."
 Mr. Gunnell : The reason why we have spent so much time debating class size is that we consider that it is very important. It is clear to the public that one of the messages on education that the Labour party has sought to get across is that the start that children get is fundamental to their continued progress in the system. There is no doubt that pupil performance is affected by class size. I look forward to the Minister demonstrating that it is not.
 The Prime Minister : I can assure the House that we will press ahead with our plans to allow successful schools to expand, either before or after the general election. Last night, the Opposition voted to deny other parents the choice, and some children the opportunities, that they themselves enjoy. Our aim is to raise standards: they apparently peddle double standards.
 The Prime Minister : The right hon. Gentleman clearly is not aware of the importance of the legislation that he has just dismissed. He clearly does not want the legislation against crime that we are proposing. He clearly
 149
 The Prime Minister (Mr. John Major) : This morning, I had meetings with ministerial colleagues and others. In addition to my duties in the House, I shall be having further meetings later today.
 The Prime Minister : I can certainly confirm that we will not have £30 billion-worth of spending pledges. The Labour party is very keen to reassure people that it would not raise taxes, but it has not yet withdrawn the £30 billion-worth of spending pledges that make it inevitable that it will raise taxes, and it has not yet managed to school its Front-Bench spokesmen out of promising more expenditure on every occasion.
 The Prime Minister : I refer the hon. Member to the answer I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : I refer the hon. Member to the answer I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : As the—[HON. MEMBERS: "Answer."] I propose to answer.
 The Prime Minister : I am glad that the hon. Gentleman supports the decision, because the yacht will be built in a British shipyard.
 The Prime Minister : I can confirm that. Perhaps if Opposition Members had listened to my hon. Friend before they began scoffing, they would have seen the trap opening in front of them. It certainly remains our view that tolls are not subject to value added tax, and we are
 150
 The Prime Minister : I cannot imagine about whom the shadow education spokesman was speaking, but I gather that there was a miscount last night and the Government were not defeated in that Division. No doubt the usual channels are sorting out the position now. What is important is not Labour's student union ambush of last night, but what it shows about Labour party policy, which is that Labour Members will enjoy choice and opportunity for themselves, but will come together as an act of policy and vote against it for people who happen not to be Labour Members of Parliament.
 The Prime Minister : I have at present no plans to do so.
 The Prime Minister : The important element is the official policy of the Opposition, which has been to oppose greater information for parents and league tables—to oppose each and every one of the reforms that we have produced to give children and parents better choices and parents information about schools. We believe that parents should have information about schools; the Opposition policy is that they should not.
 The Prime Minister : I think that the hon. Gentleman has overlooked the fact that we have the most successful economy, with the highest growth and the best inward investment record, in western Europe. None of the socialist Governments in Europe can begin to match that record, which people are understanding more and more as day succeeds day.
 The Prime Minister : The shadow Foreign Secretary seems to think that we are heading for a Europe of the regions. I strongly disagree with that view. I believe that the United Kingdom is at its strongest while it remains united and I fear that the policies proposed by the Opposition parties—to be fair, not merely the Labour party but the Liberal Democrats as well—would lead to Scotland leaving the UK. Were that to happen, it would damage not only Scotland, but each of the other parts of the United Kingdom as well. It is a policy that should be opposed and we will oppose it.
 The Prime Minister : I refer the hon. Gentleman to the reply I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : If the hon. Gentleman recalls, it was this Government who, in 1995, gave patients the right to be told before admission if it was planned that they would be cared for in a mixed-sex ward. The Labour party did not seem to bother about that at all when in office. We decided to take action. We are monitoring the process. The health authorities will report back by the end of next month with individual timetable plans for separating male and female patients—timetable plans for action that the Opposition ignored for years.
 The Prime Minister : The reality is that tolls on the Skye bridge are going to be no higher than ferry fares in 1995. Without the private finance initiative project, Skye would not have had the bridge for another 20 years. I note that the Liberal Democrats are opposed to using private finance. I hope that, in all the constituencies up and down the country where private finance is providing better facilities, it will be clear that the Liberal Democrats oppose those projects.
 Mr. John Marshall : Can my right hon. Friend tell the House about the success of his fraud hotline, which has been warmly welcomed by the majority of taxpayers who work hard and do not see why their taxes should help fraudsters?
 Mr. John Marshall  (Hendon, South) : Does my hon. Friend agree that the increase in the number of exclusions dates from the time when corporal punishment was first removed? That should mean a financial cost benefit, but the real problem is the behaviour that precedes the exclusion; if we had a decent deterrent in schools, the appalling behaviour that leads to the exclusions would not happen.
 Mr. John Marshall : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. John Townend  (Bridlington) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Rugby and Kenilworth (Mr. Pawsey). I was amazed at the hilarity with which his speech was received by Opposition Members. It is obvious that they are completely out of touch with the ordinary people in this country, especially parents. I support this move, for two reasons.
 Mr. Townend : I will not give way because I want to get on. 233
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Jonathan Evans) : In essence, four issues have arisen in the debate. The first relates to the power to limit examination fees. One position has been adopted by the Opposition in amendment No. 61 and another by the Government in Government amendments Nos. 22 and 24. The issues were highlighted in the debate in Committee, when the Opposition tabled an amendment that was identical to amendment No. 61, which required that any limit could be put in place only
 "in accordance with regulations made by the Secretary of State". [Interruption.] 253
 Mr. Julian Brazier  (Canterbury) : I thank my hon. Friend for giving way during his excellent speech. Does he agree that the whole point of education about parenthood is not to consider the rights and needs just of children in a classroom but to train them to be parents for the generation of children they will bring up in the future?
 Mr. Keith Mans  (Wyre) : Will my hon. Friend give way?
5.  Mr. Purchase : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security if he will make a statement on the increase in spending on benefits since 1979. [11373]
 Mr. Purchase : Does the Secretary of State realise that the growth in those benefits is almost twice the growth of annual average gross domestic product in Britain under Conservative rule? Does he not recognise that the figures that he has announced show that the Government's economic policy has failed? Most important, does he not understand that his Government have robbed young people of the understanding of the connection between work and welfare, and that the best welfare policy is to put young people back to work?
 Sir Malcolm Thornton  (Crosby) : I think that everyone in the House will be familiar with my support for a general teaching council, support that predates my entry to this place, and has remained consistent ever since. In the report of the Select Committee on Education and Employment in 1990 there were references to past recommendations for a GTC. The Committee referred to a
 "century of aspiration followed by a generation of disappointed initiatives." The House Magazine, 161 "emanates from, rather than is imposed on, the teaching profession."
 Sir Malcolm Thornton : If it is indeed to be a general teaching council, I do not see how it could function in any other way. I am grateful to my hon. Friend—if I may call him that, as a fellow member of the Select Committee—for his opening comments. For many years, the Select Committee has demonstrated the way in which it is possible to unite behind a principle whose benefits can be envisaged.
 Sir Malcolm Thornton : My hon. Friend raises an important point. At this stage, there should not be over-prescription. The problem that my hon. Friend seeks to address is an outstanding issue and has still not been decided by the forum. It is the will of the people who work in those two important sectors to be part of the overall concept of a general teaching council. The council's remit would reflect the wider aspects of teaching and learning, and the way in which the whole teaching profession presents itself. Those matters still need to be discussed.
 Sir Malcolm Thornton : Clearly, everyone who is involved in the oversight of education and is quite properly concerned about standards must have a say and a stake. That is very important. I do not believe that the role of a general teaching council and whatever role is envisaged for local education authorities are necessarily mutually exclusive: they should be complementary.
 Sir Malcolm Thornton : The heartening point that has emerged from the debate is that there is clear support for the principle of a general teaching council. There is some disagreement, as expressed by my hon. Friend the Minister, about whether it should be a statutory body. I believe, for powerful and long-standing reasons, that it should be. We have had a good debate, because there is clear agreement about what the teaching profession needs. The idea is driven by the support from below, but supported by the political umbrella above. That message should go out loud and clear from the House today, and I would not want—
 Sir Malcolm Thornton : I shall be brief.
 Sir Malcolm Thornton : I understand what the hon. Gentleman is trying to ask, but in all honesty I cannot give him a specific answer, because the details were raised only peripherally with my colleagues and me during our discussions. 163
 Mr. Wicks : Can the Minister explain why it is that one in three babies in Tory Britain are born to families that are dependent on the means test, compared with one in 10 in 1979? Will he help the House work out why it is that a Tory Government who in 1979 promised to get the state off people's backs have ended up creating a massive dependency state, one which includes a quarter of all households in Britain?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : Order. That has absolutely nothing to do with the Chair, and there is a telephone outside.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : With permission, I shall put together the motions relating to delegated legislation.
9.  Mr. Gapes : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security what estimate he has made of the annual cost of waste in the social security budget. [11377]
 Mr. Gapes : My question was about waste in the social security budget, not loss. Is it not a waste that 600,000 young people under the age of 25 are not in work? Is it not a waste that that costs the country £10 billion through crime, the cost of unemployment and the loss of income to those involved? Is it not a disgrace that the Government are doing nothing for young people? Only the Labour party has a programme to put 250,000 young people into work.
 Mr. Mike Hall  (Warrington, South) : Will the hon. Gentleman tell us how many teachers have contacted him demanding the reintroduction of corporal punishment in our schools?
 Mr. Forman : I have listened carefully to the speeches made so far and have sought to clear my mind a little on some of the ideas that have been put forward. 165
 Mr. Forman : As I am sure the hon. Gentleman will have noticed, the essence of most professions is that they make themselves freely and willingly responsible for standards, discipline and status in their professional sphere. It would therefore be a little odd if the teaching profession, which is a noble and long-standing one, were a large exception to that general rule.
 Mr. Forman : My hon. Friend is in danger of misunderstanding the argument put to him by hon. Members on both sides. We have said that the measure might help. It would be a necessary, but not a sufficient, condition to raise the esteem of the teaching profession in the eyes of the public and would help to remoralise the teaching profession. That is an important point. My hon. Friend should not exaggerate his counter point. We were merely saying that the measure would be one contribution.
 Mr. Forman : My hon. Friend's words of wisdom are well worth heeding. He mentioned higher and further education. Does that imply that, in his mind, if such a council were to exist in future, it would include teachers in higher and further education, or would it be confined to teachers in schools?
 Mr. Nigel Forman  (Carshalton and Wallington) : I am seeking to follow the hon. Gentleman's arguments
 160
 Mr. Nigel Spearing  (Newham, South) : Since I qualified as a teacher, I have supported the principle of
 162
 Mr. Spearing : The Minister referred to surplus places, but she will not give a definition of a place, so how do the Government know how many places are allegedly surplus?
 Mr. Spearing : I am grateful to the Minister. It is right that we have had detailed debates in Committee on a former Bill. We are now, however, in the House. We did not have much opportunity to discuss the statutory instrument that followed that former Bill.
 Mr. Spearing : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Heald : As my hon. Friend says, it is important to ensure that pension charges are kept to the minimum. The new disclosure rules are having that effect, and the Securities and Investments Board is meeting with pension providers to discuss those issues. The most important factor, however, is the yield on pensions. Since 1980, there has been a 9 per cent. annual real yield on private pensions in the United Kingdom. We also have more invested in pensions than all of Europe put together. The result is that, in 2030, when the UK's finances are in surplus, France and Germany will have a debt of 100 per cent. of GDP, and Japan's debt will be 300 per cent. of GDP.
 Mr. Heald : We have no proposals to make SERPS a partially funded scheme. Our policy is to encourage private pension provision through the contracting out of SERPS.
 Mr. Heald : It is all very well for the hon. Gentleman to ask that question, because he defines poverty in relation to the level of income support—so that, if one increases income support, one ends up with more poverty. It is nonsense. What is demonstrable is that, since 1979, under the Government, pensioners' incomes have increased dramatically—on average, by 60 per cent.—and that even the poorest pensioners have seen a 28 per cent. increase. That is very different from what happened under Labour, when pensioners were robbed of their savings through high inflation.
 Mr. Heald : The hon. Gentleman asks a question that I am very happy to answer. Even the poorest pensioners have seen incomes rise by 28 per cent. since 1979.
 Mr. Heald : My hon. Friend is right. Contracting out of SERPS and encouraging the private sector are what have helped pension incomes to rise so fast since 1979. Let us not forget, however, that the Labour party is proposing equalising the state pension age at 60—
 Mr. Heald : I have examined the proposals to which the hon. Gentleman refers, and I believe that they make him the most expensive Labour Member. His wish list of extra DSS expenditure on pensions would cost more than £6.8 billion by 2000, and more than £65 billion by 2030. He is proof of the type of pressures that a Labour Government—were one, heaven forfend, elected—would face to increase public spending. His ideas would result in national insurance costs rising by a third.
 Mr. Heald : It is relevant to SERPS, because Labour is talking about equalising the state pension age at 60, with a pension of £40 a week. With no income support, that would lead pensioners to destitution. It is risky—it is new Labour, new danger.
 Mr. Heald : The Government's policy to maintain the value of the basic state pension, encourage more private provision and target help on those most in need has led to record rises in pensioners' incomes—rising almost as
 143
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Social Security (Mr. Oliver Heald) : It is estimated that in 1979, 55 per cent. of recently retired people were in receipt of an occupational pension, compared with 70 per cent. in 1994–95. This is projected to rise further to more than 75 per cent. in the next 10 years.
 Mr. Nicholls : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the policy of being able to see league tables is greatly popular
 152 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Nicholls : Does my hon. Friend agree that tonight we should concentrate on ensuring that we introduce safeguards that would protect teachers who must smack or manhandle a child outside the classroom? Should we not also make it clear that children cannot be caned without inflicting damage in the form of weals or even bleeding? There is no way of hitting someone gently with a cane, because it is not designed for that purpose.
 Mr. Patrick Nicholls  (Teignbridge) : If no one in a school was prepared to cane, or if the licensed caner was away for the week, would there be a residual obligation on the local education authority to ensure that it had someone on its books who could pop round and flog people who needed it?
 Mr. Flynn : Does the Minister agree that the two most profitable pension schemes have been occupational pensions and SERPS? He failed to mention the 2 million people who face impoverishment in old age because of their money-purchased personal pension schemes, and that only 7,000 of them have been compensated. Does he realise that someone on average wages who has been in a SERPS pension since 1978 will now be receiving an additional £70 a week, doubling his or her pension?
 144
7.  Mr. Flynn : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security what proposals he has to ensure that SERPS becomes a partially funded scheme. [11375]
 Mr. Marland : Will my right hon. Friend confirm that it is not, and never has been, his intention to impose VAT on Severn bridge tolls— [Laughter.]
 Mr. Kilfoyle : Will the hon. Gentleman enlighten us a little further? What immediate difficulties and obstacles does he consider to lie in the path of the establishment of an effective and efficient general teaching council which could not be dealt with, given the support, help and encouragement of the Government of the day? Can such problems be addressed only in the fulness of time, or are there ways in which they could be speedily circumvented?
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I was taken by the contribution by the hon. Member for Crosby (Sir M. Thornton), who has a long and honourable tradition of support for the concept of a general teaching council. I know that he has genuine differences with us about the difficulties that we would face in trying to implement a general teaching council, but when he was asked about ways in which the obstacles that he foresees could be circumvented, he was unsure. I think that he said that he did not know and that that would be a matter for some deliberation. If I understood him
 170
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I believe that it is the case, but I cannot be 100 per cent. sure—I am not an expert on other professional organisations. My experience as an ex-teacher is that, for a very long time, there has been a claim in the profession for such an organisation to represent teachers as a profession. The hon. Gentleman will know that, in 1918, a teachers registration council was set up, which fell by the wayside mainly because it was a voluntary organisation, which one had to subscribe to. It was not the type of organisation that we envisage today.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time. 159 The Mail on Sunday, The Mail on Sunday
 Mr. Kilfoyle : There is absolutely no intention to subvert the legitimate rights of individual teachers to seek the support, for example, of their professional associations—quite the reverse. One of the objects of establishing a GTC is to ensure that professionalism is maintained. There may be ambiguities or uncertainties in the new clause. Our offer to proceed on the basis of a cross-party consensus is made on the understanding that we can then establish where there may be loopholes in the clause as it stands. We ask the Government to accept adjustments to the clause in another place.
 Mr. Peter Kilfoyle  (Liverpool, Walton) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. The Government have had the opportunity overnight to consider the enormity of the loss last night of new clause 3 and its impact on the rest of the Bill, and the Clerks of the House have had a chance to ponder the ramifications of that loss. I seek your guidance again today on the effect that the loss of the new clause will have on clause 6 and paragraph 22 of schedule 9, both of which refer specifically to new section 259A of the Education Act 1996, which was struck out by the House last night. Other clauses, including clause 5, refer to the enlargement of premises, and one might reasonably argue that they, too, are impacted upon by the removal of new section 259A.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I am grateful for that constructive intervention and I shall not follow the Welsh issue further. 171 The Mail on Sunday. The Mail on Sunday
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I agree that if the principle is good, it should be universally applied; I understand that such a body currently exists in Scotland.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I do not want to claim prescience about what the hon. Gentleman was about to say, but I assume that it was a cri de coeur for a bipartisan approach to the issue, asking that we should not vote on it today. I do not doubt his sincerity, which is recognised by all right hon. and hon. Members, but I also do not doubt the fact that
 172
 Mr. Kilfoyle : No, I will not.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : The Minister advocates the primacy of parental choice. I understand that, but will she tell the House who makes the choice where there is over-subscription? Does the school make the choice, or do the parents make it, when they cannot gain access to a school that they would dearly like their child to attend?
 Mr. Kilfoyle : The hon. Gentleman will see that I also have a copy of the report. Will he remind the House of the timing of our debate in Standing Committee and the timing of the publication of that document?
 Mr. Kilfoyle   rose
 Mr. Kilfoyle : That view was certainly shared privately by hon. Members on both sides. I echo the
 225
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I shall be brief, as another new clause deals with substantially the same subject. I have nothing but contempt for the new clause—especially in view of the way in which it has been presented today. I hope that the increased number of Conservative Members in the Chamber—there are more present now than at any other time during the Report stage of the Bill—reflects support for the enlightened view of the hon. Member for Sutton and Cheam (Lady Olga Maitland) rather than for what I would describe as the Neanderthal view of the hon. Member for Luton, North (Mr. Carlisle): I hope that he made his contribution to the debate with his tongue firmly in his cheek, and I am sure that the good burghers of Luton would share my view.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : Predictably, the Minister is wrong. I intended to ask her to confirm that the Government, in removing school places, took away the miserly minimum space per child and the minimum space for recreation that had prevailed for a long time before changes were made in the regulations.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I wish to add to the comments by the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Foster). In general, I support his contention regarding the conclusions of the Audit Commission report known as "Trading Places". When we examine some of those conclusions, we understand how fortunate the Government were that the report was published the day after we finished our deliberations in Committee. It is important to place those conclusions on the record, because they have a bearing on the important new clause tabled by the hon. Member for Bath. 187 "The pursuit of a wide range of competing objectives has generated tensions and conflicts between policies which prevent any of them from being implemented with full effect, and risks the school planning system becoming gridlocked. It is not possible for LEAs to move forward on all of these policies as currently defined, and maximise value for money." "There is a tension between the policy of promoting GM schools and that of ensuring the economic and efficient supply of school places."
 Mr. Kilfoyle : Last night, the Government failed abysmally in that vote. Earlier today, the Minister spoke about basic skills. Whether there was a deficiency in numeracy or in communication skills, it certainly showed in the Government Whips' abject failure to deliver a vote for the Government on one of their flagship policies. 188 "If the proposals in the 1996 White Paper to allow the FAS to propose new GM schools in all LEAs become law, duplication may become common"— "Satisfaction through achieving the school of your choice may lead to dissatisfaction with its large class sizes". "there is a danger of establishing a vicious circle … The dispersal of LEA powers encourages central government to take more powers to itself and to use these powers more actively; which in turn limits the scope and incentives for LEAs to act of their own volition; which in turn encourages central government to assume more powers of direction and co-ordination; which in turn reduces the LEA role still further." "Such problems require local intelligence, local judgment, and local action—and national government is too remote to be able to provide these as quickly or as effectively as a local agency." "the need for effective local intervention and co-ordination to manage the market". "Inaction is not an option. Unwanted and unnecessary school places lock up scarce resources which could be used elsewhere. Class sizes continue to rise in popular schools. Appeals are on the increase. Schemes for school rationalisation are decreasing. Government and LEAs blame each other"— "Local problems are solved most efficiently by agencies operating at the local level. Such agencies could be given duties to plan the supply and allocation of places in the local area, to co-ordinate admissions … and intervene where a school was not delivering an adequate standard of education … One approach would be for agencies to develop local education plans". 189 "One approach would be for agencies to develop local education plans, consulting extensively with interested bodies in the area. These plans, covering a 3 to 5 year period, would be submitted to central government for approval, after which as many decisions as possible should be taken by the agency without reference to the Secretary of State".
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I shall address you, Madam Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time. [Interruption.] 198
 Mr. Kilfoyle : It is nonsense to propagate the myth that an assisted place costs less than a place in a typical maintained school, but the point is that the sum total of that money can, as the new clause suggests, be dedicated through grants to ensuring that class sizes are reduced for the many, rather than being an advantage proffered to the few.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : The hon. Lady suggests that class sizes are not relevant to the way in which standards rise or fall in any given school. She may—or may not—understand that other factors are involved, but class size is important in raising standards for all children. That is the perceived wisdom in education, and I would far sooner go with that perceived wisdom than with the hon. Lady and her somewhat idiosyncratic views on education.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I am sure that the Minister will go on to give us a very full list of authorities that—he will allege—have misspent their funding. I refer him to Subsection (2) of the new clause, which says specifically that any
 202
 Mr. Kilfoyle : No; I am conscious of the time.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I was quite taken by the Minister's Freudian slip about the "the next Labour Government"—which will not be long in coming, to put our policies into effect. He was very quick to correct the figures quoted by the hon. Member for Lancaster (Dame E. Kellett-Bowman) about one teacher for every seven schools, but he made no attempt to correct the figures provided by the hon. Member for South Dorset (Mr. Bruce), who said something very different about the cost of places in the assisted places scheme compared to those in the maintained sector.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I have of course heard that soundbite before, but if the hon. Lady cares to consider the way in which the new clause has been constructed, she will find that it is a matter for consultation across a given area, so that all stakeholders can have a say in how class sizes can be reduced. 199
 Mr. Kilfoyle : As for the choice made by my right hon. Friend the Member for Sedgefield (Mr. Blair), can the
 204
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : I shall be extremely brief because the clause is self-evidently sensible. It has arisen from the assiduous work done by my hon. Friend the Member for Barking (Ms Hodge) in her attempts to ensure that the Government regulate agencies to prevent them abusing their position by, for example, accepting on to their books people debarred from active teaching because they are on list 99. I commend the new clause to the House.
 Mr. Lilley : The basic pension will be uprated by 2.1 per cent. from April, giving a standard rate pension of nearly £100 for a couple.
 Mr. Lilley : The hon. Member is mistaken. I advise him to read the report by Watsons which showed that, because we have a flat-rate basic pension, those who have low pay during their working lives are—with the benefit of the basic pension plus other support—at least as well off as, and usually better off than, pensioners in most other countries in Europe. Because of our success in building up occupational pensions, those with average earnings also do as well as or better than their counterparts. Uprating the basic pension in line with earnings rather than prices would cost £7.5 billion a year, which is why we have repudiated it—as, I believe, have Opposition Front Benchers recently, at whom the hon. Gentleman's ire might be well directed.
 Mr. Lilley : The simple answer to the hon. Lady's question is that her figures are wrong. Two thirds of the growth in social security spending in real terms since I took office has been spent on disabled, elderly and long-term sick people. That is fact, and I shall put the figures in the Library. I am sorry that the hon. Lady did not however use the privilege that the House offers to give us the answer that we want: where will she get the money?
 Mr. Lilley : The hon. Lady's figures are wrong. That is the simple answer to her question. Perhaps she will answer my question and explain— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Lilley : The hon. Gentleman was not listening to my answer. Two thirds of the extra help goes to disabled people, long-term sick and elderly people. Is he saying that it is a failure to increase help to disabled people and that Labour would undo it? Is he saying that it is a failure that there are more elderly people? The life expectancy of someone reaching retirement age now is more than two years higher than under Labour.
 Mr. Lilley : My hon. Friend makes a very important point. The reforms that we announced in the Budget will ultimately save about £500 million through equalising benefits for lone parents with those available to married couples, which is not only fair but makes it possible for
 142
 Mr. Lilley : Since 1979, spending has increased by £40 billion in real terms. More than two thirds of that increased help is for the elderly, the long-term sick and, above all, disabled people.
 Mr. Lilley : I can tell my hon. Friend that the fraud hotline has been extremely successful. More than 100,000 calls have been received. They are still coming in at a rate of more than 5,000 a week, which is high such a long time after the original announcement. It shows that honest, upright individuals are incensed by the minority who try to rip off the system. We entirely uphold their opinions.
 Mr. Lilley : I do not accept that those powers are an infringement of civil liberties. We are not requiring any more information from individuals than is already taken. We are simply using the power to ensure that people are not, for example, working and claiming. We have said that we will consider the appropriateness of codes of practice, and we will discuss that matter with those responsible for data protection.
 Mr. Lilley : I certainly join my hon. Friend in paying tribute to Benefits Agency staff in King's Lynn and throughout the country. They work with dedication and commitment to help those entitled to benefit and to ensure that money does not go to those who are not entitled to it.
 The Secretary of State for Social Security (Mr. Peter Lilley) : Tackling fraud and abuse is my top priority. The Social Security Administration (Fraud) Bill, which successfully completed its Committee stage this morning, will strengthen our ability to fight fraud, and will enable us to galvanise local authorities into tackling fraud in housing benefit.
 Mr. Thurnham : Will the Minister bear in mind the special needs of voluntary funded hostels such as Bolton's Salvation Army hostel, which faces higher heating charges in cold weather, but whose tenants are free to spend their supplements as they wish? Has he any encouraging message for voluntary fund raisers who have to raise the money to keep hostels going?
 Mr. Gallie : Will my hon. Friend give a commitment to maintain the level of old-age pensions above the rate of the rise in the cost of living, as the Conservatives have done over the past 18 years, unlike Labour, who allowed the value of pensions to plummet while they were in office?
 The Minister for Construction, Planning and Energy Efficiency (Mr. Robert B. Jones) : I congratulate my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Weston-super-Mare (Sir J. Wiggin) on obtaining this Adjournment debate, which has given him an opportunity to make clear the strength of his concerns about the gipsy and travellers' site at Willowmead caravan park, near Weston-super-Mare. I have no doubt that those concerns are shared by a number of local residents, and have been since the site was first occupied as a temporary gipsy site in 1992. 266 267 268
 Mr. Evans : The hon. Gentleman's question was about waste in the social security budget. If we did not divine the precise focus of his question, it was not for want of asking him in advance. The fact remains that unemployment is falling, and the Government have a series of schemes to promote youth employment.
 Mr. Roger Evans : The largest losses to the social security budget are the result of fraud. Stamping out benefit fraud and abuse remains our top priority. We have achieved record savings year on year and are on course, with the new "spend to save" initiative set out in the Budget, to save some £7 billion over the next three years.
 Mr. Evans : My hon. Friend makes powerful points, which I have no doubt are correct.
 Mr. Roger Evans : Since the beginning of last December, 195,000 people in Scotland have received cold weather payments. Of these, 188,000 received more than one payment.
 Mr. Evans : I hear what my hon. Friend says about southern Ireland. On his first point, I welcome his support. The system is designed to target help where it is most needed when the weather is at its worst.
 Mr. Evans : The existing scheme is automatic in the sense that a person does not have to make a claim if he is in the qualifying group. A payment is made when the Meteorological Office records seven days at 0 deg or less or, much more important, when it forecasts that the temperature will be 0 deg or less for seven days. The prospect of that payment is widely advertised locally and people realise that it will be coming shortly thereafter.
 Mr. Evans : That is a separate issue from the cold weather payment scheme that we have been discussing.
 Mr. Evans : The simple answer to my hon. Friend is yes. If he or any hon. Member wants to make specific points, as numerous hon. Members did last summer, they will of course all be referred to the Meteorological Office and the advice will be carefully considered.
 Mr. Evans : No. According to paragraph 9.7 of the advice from the Meteorological Office that we took last summer and placed in the Library,
 "In much of the country, the additional domestic heating requirements generated as a result of the effect of the exposure of houses to wind are too small and too highly variable to be included sensibly in such a scheme."
 Mr. Evans : Every summer we ask the Meteorological Office to review whether the linking of particular parts of constituencies with particular weather stations is
 140
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Social Security (Mr. Roger Evans) : We received 88 letters about the cold weather payments scheme during the recent cold period.
 Mr. Evans : The House and the country will take the hon. Gentleman seriously when he tells us exactly what he is prepared to spend and on what. Since 1991, £350 million has been paid out for the home energy efficiency payment scheme and no less than 10 per cent. of the United Kingdom housing stock has had its insulation improved as a result of the scheme. I make it absolutely clear to the hon. Gentleman, and to anyone else who doubts it, that, if he wishes to extend the cold weather payment scheme to everyone on income support and to all pensioners, it will cost £250 million to £300 million a year more in a winter of last year's severity.
 Mr. Evans : The simple answer is yes. My hon. Friend made the points last summer. The Meteorological Office was not persuaded, but I shall be happy to reconsider the matter if there is any further information or if there are any further arguments.
 Sir Roger Moate : On the vote last night on grant-maintained schools, does my right hon. Friend recall the remarks of the Labour education spokesman, who said:
 "I am having no truck with left-wing, middle-class parents who preach one thing and send their children to another school outside the area"?
 Mr. Roy Beggs  (East Antrim) : If a decision is made that it is in the best interests of the profession to have a general teaching council for Wales and England, surely Scotland and Northern Ireland deserve the same treatment.
 Mr. Beggs : The hon. Gentleman referred to the damage that might be done to the child who was excluded. Does
 216
 Mr. Batiste : Does my hon. Friend realise that measurements taken in Leeds city centre are consistently some degrees warmer than those in the rural hinterland, which includes much of my constituency? When he speaks again to the Meteorological Office, will he ask it to review where it takes its measurements in various parts of west Yorkshire, because they are not limited just to Leeds, so that people's entitlement to this important benefit, which was introduced by the Government, relates to their experience at home?
 Mr. Day : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the countries that form the United Kingdom—Scotland, England, Wales and Northern Ireland—although proud entities in themselves, would count for nothing in the world as individual, separate nations? Will he therefore assure the House that his Government will never follow the lead of the Labour party in proposing constitutional changes that would lead to the break-up of this United Kingdom and provide the perfect scenario for our component countries to be nothing more than provinces in a federal Europe?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : Thank you for your statement, Madam Speaker.
 Mr. Ted Rowlands  (Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney) : I support the proposals in the Bill and the amendments tabled by my hon. Friend the Member for Bridgend (Mr. Griffiths). It strikes me that the whole of our education system has been bedevilled by the 40-year-long dispute about the respective values of academic and vocational education. I hope that, by bringing the bodies together, we can introduce the ideas of parity and respect for the vocational routes to education as well as the academic, because that seems to me both fundamental and important, especially in Wales. 252
 Mr. Terry Dicks  (Hayes and Harlington) : Social workers.
Q4.  Mr. Rooney : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Tuesday 28 January. [11401]
 Mr. Rooney : Does the Prime Minister recall his pledge, which was apparently reiterated by the Secretary of State for Health yesterday, to phase out mixed-sex wards? What condolences will he give to my constituents
 151
 Mr. Devlin : Will my hon. Friend confirm that taking up benefits is not compulsory? There may be a variety of
 146
12.  Mr. Tony Banks : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security what new proposals he has to increase the level of the basic pension. [11380]
 Mr. Banks : Is the Secretary of State aware that the British pensioner is treated worse than almost any other pensioner in the whole of the European Union in terms of basic pension rights? The Government have betrayed the British pensioners. Those who suffered and sacrificed during the last war have been betrayed by the Conservative Government. By breaking the link between pensions and wages, the Government have let the
 148
 Mr. Blair : I see now: it is now our fault that they cannot run a halfway competent Government. Why does the Prime Minister not simply call a halt to what is the fag end of a burnt-out Government? They have no legislative programme left and the country is tired of waiting: March—not March; May—not May. If they are so confident, why does not the Prime Minister, just for once, put a stop to the dithering, name the day and call a general election?
 Mr. Marlow : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I know that you have been following the debate very carefully. I was always brought up to believe that there was something called tedious repetition. I am sure that you will assist the House if it comes about.
 Mr. Tony Marlow  (Northampton, North) : The hon. Gentleman has said that, if the ultimate disaster happened and it got into power, the Labour party in government would not be spendthrift. Why, when providing a given level of service anywhere in the country, do Labour local authorities cost much more than Conservative local authorities?
 Mr. Marlow : When the hon. Member for City of Durham (Mr. Steinberg) said that corporal punishment could have a positive impact on discipline problems in schools, his instincts were quite right. He then made the wrong judgment. He cited the example of the child who kept coming back for more. Perhaps it did not work for that child, but what about the other children who were never sent to his study in the first place?
 Mr. Marlow : No. I apologise to the hon. Gentleman, but there is very little time and others are waiting to speak.
 Mr. Marlow : I shall not give way, as many hon. Members wish to speak. 229
 Mr. Marlow : As my hon. Friend is considering what line he will take on this issue, may I reassure him that I have taken advice? The new clause would not be in conflict with the European Court of Human Rights. The court is concerned with degrading and inhuman punishment. The clause is defined in such a way that if corporal punishment were reintroduced, it would not be carried out in a degrading and inhuman way. In other words it would be all right. That being so, my hon. Friend can vote for the new clause.
 Mr. Walter Sweeney  (Vale of Glamorgan) : Will my hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Griffiths : Unfortunately, we shall have to be brief as time is pressing. The amendment would remove the uncertainty and potential confusion in clauses 39 and 45 with regard to the Qualifications and National Curriculum Authority, the QNCA, and Awdurdod Cymwysterau, Cwricwlwm ac Asesu Cymru, or ACCAC. We also want to ensure that the membership of ACCAC truly represents those with expertise and interest in education and training. Finally, the amendment deals with a technical matter relating to fees. 251
 Mr. Win Griffiths : I am a trifle disappointed by the Minister's response because, as I read the Bill, the third option is more or less what we proposed in detail in the amendments. We put the amendments down as a marker for what will happen when there is a Labour Government and the Welsh Assembly is created.
 Mr. Win Griffiths : I beg to move amendment No. 62, in page 32, line 19, leave out subsection (3) and insert—
 (3) The Secretaries of State may by regulation make such provision as they consider appropriate for the Qualifications and National Curriculum Authority in England and the Qualifications, Curriculum and Assessment Authority for Wales to co-operate in the exercise of their functions as set out in subsection (2)(a)-(g) above and section 45(2)(a)-(g) below respectively.'.
 Mr. Win Griffiths  (Bridgend) : For the sake of clarification, may I point out to the hon. Member for Ceredigion and Pembroke, North (Mr. Dafis) that the Labour party's policy document for Wales states that, in all probability, there would be a separation after the Welsh Assembly had been created, but in the meantime we wish to set down the principle of a general teaching council for England and Wales?
 Mrs. Ann Winterton  (Congleton) : Will my hon. Friend give way?
 Mrs. Gillan : I thank my hon. Friend the Member for South Dorset (Mr. Bruce) for his contribution and for the welcome that he has given to clause 63. It seeks to close a technical loophole in the legislation on qualifications, health and misconduct that did not previously cover staff, whether teaching staff or others working with young people in schools and colleges, who did not have contracts of employment.
 Mrs. Gillan : Does the hon. Lady know whether that incident was reported, as I suggested in Committee that it should be? I made it clear that the necessary mechanisms were in place.
 Mrs. Gillan : The hon. Gentleman is not up to date. He seems to be caught in a time warp of grammar schools and comprehensives. I see choice and diversity. A school that is not grant-maintained may try to improve its targets. It may go for technology college or language college status. We are creating choice within the education system, but the hon. Gentleman is talking the language of 20 years ago.
 Mrs. Gillan : I have no idea. I have, however, had sight of a press release that was issued by the Department yesterday in the name of my hon. Friend with responsibilities for schools, which includes the latest figures on the reduction in surplus places. There has been a 1 per cent. fall to about 10 per cent. of the total capacity of 7.6 million places. That is encouraging, but some local authorities could do better. We share the Audit Commission's view that more could be done, such as encouraging LEAs to follow the examples of good practice contained in the report. Officials will continue to follow up individual local authorities whose returns suggest scope for action where it is not being taken.
 Mrs. Gillan : I agree that such matters are important. The hon. Gentleman puts a great deal of faith in LEAs, and so did we on this occasion. It is for LEAs to manage their affairs, as the hon. Gentleman knows only too well.
 Mrs. Gillan : I cannot confirm what my hon. Friend says at the moment. I know, however, that many village schools do an excellent job. I am sure that all Members would endorse that. 191 [Interruption.]
 Mrs. Gillan : We have had quite a lengthy debate on new clause 2. I am rather surprised that the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Foster) wishes to discuss placing conditions on the operation of a clause that is not part of the Bill. His approach shows a justified awareness—
 Mrs. Gillan : I would like the hon. Gentleman to square his recent remarks with the fact that last night he voted against popular schools expanding.
 Mrs. Gillan : I remember that we gave more powers to local education authorities. It has been argued from the
 190
 Mrs. Gillan : I shall give way to the hon. Gentleman because we have had several exchanges on these matters in previous debates. I know that he feels strongly about them. I am sure that he is about to say something that we have heard before, but I am willing to give way to him.
 Mrs. Gillan : The Government remain committed to the clause that was lost last night. We shall therefore seek to reintroduce it in another place.
 Mrs. Gillan : I am sorry that the hon. Member for Bath jumped to his feet so prematurely before I had completed my sentence. He is showing a justified awareness that any reversals in the Bill's progress will be merely transitory. I wished to thank him for his vote of confidence in the Government.
 Mrs. Gillan : I will not give way a second time to the hon. Gentleman. I had finished my remarks. I reject new clause 1.
 Mrs. Gillan : The hon. Gentleman knows that, unfortunately, some parents are disappointed and cannot send their child to the school of their choice. We remain firmly committed to the principle of selection, allowing schools to choose how they bring in that selection. The permissive provisions in the Bill are firmly supported by Conservative Members.
 Mrs. Gillan : The hon. Gentleman is quick to get to his feet. His question will be answered firmly at the end of my contribution to the debate. 182
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mrs. Cheryl Gillan) : If I remember correctly, the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Foster) moved a similar amendment in Committee, although it was certainly different from the new clause that he has moved today. He did so with a great deal of frivolity, suggesting that he was emulating the style of the Minister of State, my hon. Friend the Member for Mid-Worcestershire (Mr. Forth). However, by his own admission, "It clearly did not work"—and it is clearly not working today.
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman  (Lancaster) : In the hon. Gentleman's discussions with the Labour party, has it pledged any money to those "significantly different" organisations?
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman : The hon. Member has not had the misfortune of dealing with Lancashire county council, which deliberately keeps open many secondary school places in east Lancashire, where the population is not increasing, to the detriment of the schools in north Lancashire, where the population is increasing. The population is not increasing in Skelmersdale and Burnley, but it is certainly going up in Garstang, Lancaster and the entire Wyre district.
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman : Quite manifestly, those schools would not be seeking to increase their numbers if they did not have demand from parents. We are in favour of parental choice.
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman : Does my hon. Friend accept that if the regulations had not been modified, the vast majority of village schools, which do an excellent job, would have faced closure?
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman : If an incoming Labour Government did abolish the assisted places scheme, the saving would fund one teacher for every seven schools.
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that Islington has class sizes of only 15 and it does not do a good job, so people go out of Islington into other boroughs?
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman : I have always supported corporal punishment, but I much prefer new
 232
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman : I will not give way.
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman : May I venture the opinion that, if girls behave in as barbaric a way as some boys, they deserve to be treated identically?
 Mrs. Elizabeth Peacock  (Batley and Spen) : My hon. Friend will recall that it was suggested that putting
 243
 Mrs. Peacock : I welcome what my hon. Friend has said about the number of payments and the amount of money that has been paid, but will he please take up the point made by my hon. Friend the Member for Elmet (Mr. Batiste) about the weather centre in the centre of Leeds? Taking measurements there is useless to people in my constituency who live on the hill. My hon. Friend the Minister knows that I have made representations on the matter. Will he please take it back to the Meteorological Office?
 The Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mrs. Gillian Shephard) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read the Third time. 256
 Mrs. Shephard : I apologise, Mr. Deputy Speaker. 257
 Mrs. Ewing : Although we all appreciate that there have been changes in the trigger mechanisms for cold weather payments, which were very important in the recent very cold spells, does the Minister accept that we should be following the examples of countries such as Ireland which make automatic payments during the coldest months and weeks of winter to ensure that people on the lowest state benefits are guaranteed such payments? In Scotland, the excess winter death rate is 16 per cent., whereas in Finland, which has a good programme, it is 9 per cent.
11.  Mrs. Ewing : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security how many people in Scotland have
 147
 Ms Hodge : I thank the Under-Secretary for that intervention; I shall come to the relevant mechanisms in a moment. I do not know whether that particular incident was reported, but I shall take soundings and find out.
 Ms Margaret Hodge  (Barking) : I, too, shall be brief because I know that other issues have to be debated. 209 "Ms … appeared to be a very needy person who seemed somewhat unstable. I am therefore unable to recommend her to you." 210
 Ms Hodge : All the reputable agencies to which I have talked wish the new clause to be incorporated in the Bill. The new clause would provide not for the odd spot check, but for a proper regulatory framework with registration and inspection, paid for by the agencies. The reputable agencies want that because it would give us a foolproof system.
 Mrs. Roe : Will my right hon. Friend confirm that his reforms, including his proposed reforms of family benefits, are essential to control the increase in social security spending? Is he aware that his planned reforms of family benefits would not be implemented by the Labour party? Has it told him where the money will come from to compensate for the lost savings?
 Ms Estelle Morris : That argument is rather difficult to accept from a Government who prescribe almost everything that occurs in education and who retain so many powers. The Minister said that it is not appropriate to set yearly literacy targets in education, but there is nothing more important than ensuring that our young people master literacy at an early age. If they do not succeed in primary school, they have little chance of mastering literacy at a secondary level. Literacy is central to learning, and too many children do not achieve the required levels of literacy at age 11. 180
 Ms Estelle Morris  (Birmingham, Yardley) : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time.
 Ms Morris : I shall start by saying something that will find agreement on both sides of the House on the importance of literacy in teaching and learning. It is important to master that basic skill if one is to access the rest of the curriculum and to realise one's potential. It is true to say that literacy, more than any other subject, underpins everyone's learning. Certainly, in the debate we had on this issue in Committee, the Minister made clear his agreement with us that any measures that would help to raise literacy standards in our schools should be considered. Hansard, 177
 Ms Estelle Morris : I wish to press the Minister on an issue that he has not mentioned. He referred to target setting at key stages 1, 2 and 3. The new clause would ensure that literacy targets are set for every year of a child's school career. Will the Minister address that key aspect of the new clause before he concludes his remarks?
 Ms Harman : That is not relevant.
 Ms Harman : Will the Secretary of State confirm that the social security budget is £15 billion a year more than it was in 1992? Will he confirm that that means that, as Secretary of State, he has increased the social security budget by 20 per cent.? Will he admit that it is no good blaming the elderly? They account for only £1.5 billion of that £15 billion annual increase. Will he admit that it is no good blaming the disabled? They account for only £4 billion of the £15 billion increase. Will he admit that the main reason for the £15 billion increase is that one in five households are without work?
 Mrs. Kennedy : Notwithstanding the Minister's answer, will he confirm that housing benefit fraud is currently estimated to cost us £2 billion a year, and that the largest part of that is recognised to be organised landlord fraud? Have not the Government missed an opportunity, during the passing of the fraud Bill, to introduce a new offence of landlord fraud, as the Opposition suggested? Does that not show the Government's commitment to a deregulated, private housing-for-rent market at all costs, including costs to the taxpayer?
3.  Mrs. Jane Kennedy : To ask the Secretary of State for Social Security if he will make a statement on housing benefit fraud by landlords. [11370]
4.  Mr. Alan W. Williams : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment how many representations she has received (a) in support and (b) against the Government's proposed changes to the teachers' early retirement scheme. [11728]
 Mr. Williams : Why do 80 to 90 per cent. of teachers want to retire early? Is that not a sad comment on the
 344
 Several hon. Members   rose
 Dr. Norman A. Godman  (Greenock and Port Glasgow) : Has the hon. and learned Gentleman considered the safety aspect? Tagging equipment might, in some workplaces, be regarded by management and employees as a safety hazard.
 Dr. Godman : The remarks of the hon. Member for Perth and Kinross (Ms Cunningham) make a lot of sense. The Minister offered to answer any questions that hon. Members may have concerning the Government
 398
 Dr. Godman : Amendment No. 23 says that, in addition to a constable and a mental health officer, an officer on the staff of the hospital can perform escort duties. Will the Minister confirm that most mental health officers are social workers who have undergone specific training in the mental health sector? Surely he would not expect someone to be escorted by a mental health officer—a social worker. Surely such escort duties would be undertaken by a police officer or, as the amendment says,
 "an officer on the staff of the hospital specified".
 Dr. Godman : I share some of the serious reservations of my hon. Friend the Member for Dundee, East (Mr. McAllion). A court has to be satisfied by way of the written or oral evidence of two medical practitioners, by which is meant consultant psychiatrists. In the context of amendment No. 242, before a person can be transferred to the prison system would consultant psychiatrists be involved in an examination in the hospital?
 Dr. Norman A. Godman  (Greenock and Port Glasgow) : I am grateful to the right hon. Gentleman for displaying his characteristic courtesy in giving way to me. The statistics he quoted plainly show the extent of poverty among elderly people.
11.  Dr. Wright : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment what assessment she has made of the benefits accruing from the research assessment exercise in universities. [11736]
 Dr. Wright : Is the Secretary of State aware of the way in which the research assessment exercise has preoccupied the attention of universities and their staff? We hear of staff being transferred between institutions, sometimes with transfer fees, to inflate the research ratings. We have the unreadable in search of the unteachable as research is produced that nobody wants to read or needs to read, while teaching is being devalued. Is it not time to sort this nonsense out?
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : Courts will act only on the basis of recommendations from psychiatrists and will take into account whether the accused's condition is treatable and therefore whether a hospital direction would be appropriate. I was asked whether the Mental Welfare Commission for Scotland would have a role. At the moment, it has no role when a court is deciding on a disposal that involves sending somebody to hospital. Statute spells out what evidence shall be given to the court and by whom and the same will apply under hospital directions. 412
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I beg to move amendment No. 224, in page 17, line 8, leave out 'five' and insert 'ten'.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton a: The amendments relate to increased sentencing powers for certain sexual offences. They are a response to calls made by members of the Committee.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I beg to move amendment No. 29, in page 18, line 18, at end insert
 'and, without prejudice to that generality, in relation to district courts an order under this subsection may make provision as respects such courts by reference to whether the court is constituted by a stipendiary magistrate or by one or more justices'.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The amendments relate to the extension of the powers of the courts to disqualify from driving for offences not directly related to road traffic offences.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The prescribed minimum standard defined in amendments Nos. 132 and 145 is:
 "an absence of proved misconduct reports." 421
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I beg to move amendment No. 37, in page 28, line 27, leave out 'three months or more' and insert 'more than two months'.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : Amendments Nos. 37, 38 and 39 have been tabled to address a point raised in Committee by the hon. Member for Dumbarton (Mr. McFall). He was concerned that if the new early release scheme applied only to those serving three months or more, someone serving a slightly shorter sentence would have to serve longer than someone sentenced to exactly three months who earned full early release. 422
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I am certain that sensible arrangements will be made, which will not burden those concerned, but the amendment arose out of an Opposition request in Standing Committee. I think that the hon. Gentleman was not on the Standing Committee. The amendment reflects the Committee's wishes, and is a step forward.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I was asked about research. It has not been decided who should conduct the research. In England, it was conducted by Home Office researchers, and I believe that in Scotland Scottish Office researchers will be able to perform that function. However, as I have said, no decision has been taken. 399
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I beg to move amendment No. 22, in page 10, line 28, leave out '28' and insert '7'.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : These are technical amendments. I shall be happy to speak to any of them, if the House so wishes.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The hon. Member for Dumbarton (Mr. McFall) asked what view we took of the consultation exercise. It is not just who, or how many people, said what that matters, but the merits and strength of the arguments. On the merits of the argument, we took the view that the case against introducing tagging into the
 385
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I am answering the points made by the hon. Member for Dumbarton. "Electronic monitoring can be a worthwhile addition to the range of community penalties available to sentences."
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The hon. and learned Gentleman is wrong. We are not suggesting the general adoption of these measures throughout Scotland. We believe that it is right to review the effects of the pilot scheme, to have pilot schemes in Scotland first, to make a proper evaluation and then to consider whether it should be taken forward more generally. 386 "proper evaluation of its likely efficacy".
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : Of course the safety of the individual who has been tagged is a priority. No disposal which risked the safety of the individual would be acceptable. As for the electronic devices, we have moved on a great deal. The results of the pilot scheme showed conclusively that it worked in terms both of accuracy and of reliability. Incidentally, the devices work under water, so there is no concern about that. 387 "there may be merit in extending the experiment further, so that young offenders who may commit more serious offences as time goes on can be kept away from custodial sentences." "the possibility that some young people will be diverted out of custody but properly supervised via electronic tagging".—[ Official Report, Standing Committee
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I beg to move amendment No. 106, in page 6, line 26, leave out '245F' and insert '245G'.
 The Minister of State, Scottish Office (Lord James Douglas-Hamilton) : Is the hon. Gentleman aware that page 24 of "Curfew Orders with Electronic Monitoring" says:
 "The majority said they would agree to be lagged again … Avoiding custody was an important consideration, as was not jeopardising one's employment, or the chance of it"?
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I shall certainly look closely at the details of the hon. Gentleman's speech. I should explain to him that the purpose of the amendment in meeting the point that he raised in Committee is that a prisoner serving two months and three days, for example, would be able to earn two days early release. Similarly, a prisoner serving two months and four days would be able to earn three days, and so on. So there would be a tapering effect around the threshold, which would ensure that no one would serve less time in prison than someone sentenced to a shorter period who is ineligible for early release.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I beg to move amendment No. 259, in page 42, line 38, leave out 'sexual'.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I should like to refer first to amendment No. 274, upon which amendment No. 259 and others in the group are consequential. As hon. Members are aware, clause 44 extends police powers to take DNA samples from all persons who have been convicted of a serious sexual offence and who are still in custody.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I beg to move amendment No. 45, in page 45, line 1, after '(b)' insert
 'subject to subsection (3A) below,'.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The Government amendments in this group affect the part of the Bill relating to criminal legal aid and implementing improvements suggested in Committee by my hon. Friends the Members for Eastwood (Mr. Stewart) and for Ayr (Mr. Gallie). They cover the registration of solicitors, a pilot scheme for public defenders, the code of practice, the involvement of the Law Society and other matters.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The Opposition's amendments on legal aid go too far in seeking to curtail the powers to be conferred on the board by part V.
 431
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I should confirm, to correct the point that I made in haste a moment ago, that the drafting error relates to amendment No. 75, not amendment No. 157.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I shall examine that point and write to the hon. Gentleman. I shall also thoroughly examine the way in which the pilot schemes will operate and write to my hon. Friend the Member for Eastwood on that point.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The amendments replicate amendments that we considered in Committee. I said at that time that I would consider further the level of the penalty. I recall that the hon. Member for Dumbarton (Mr. McFall) said that it would be absurd if someone were fined £2,500 for not giving his name and address. I agree in this context, and I believe that we should not go down the road of increasing penalties merely for the sake of presentation. Penalties should be proportionate to the gravity of the offence.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : It would not be appropriate to get into the business of sentence-gazumping proposals. For a variety of reasons, we think that the amendments are unnecessary.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : I can speak briefly, as the amendments arise from amendments—and arguments—presented by Opposition Members in Committee, which I accepted in principle. However, I should mention one point specifically. Amendments Nos. 22 to 25 would, following the making of a hospital direction, reduce the maximum time for which a person may be in transit between the court and the hospital from 28 to seven days, and add to the list of those who may so convey the person an officer on the staff of that hospital. The other amendments are procedural.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The hon. Gentleman seems to be unaware that one has to do a little bit more than rely on those who do not have a vote.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : Here he is.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The hon. Member for Falkirk, East (Mr. Connarty) raised some serious points in relation to Polmont. I shall examine them and write to him in due course.
 The Minister of State, Home Office (Miss Ann Widdecombe) : I beg to move,
 That the Police Grant Report (England and Wales) 1997–98 (HC 208), which was laid before this House on 27th January, be approved.
 Miss Widdecombe : I do recall mat. Our policies have had a significant impact.
 Miss Widdecombe : My claim is justified because police numbers have risen by more than 16,000 since
 456
 Miss Widdecombe : The way in which individual police forces decide to allocate their resources and the priorities that they attach to their spending patterns are matters for the chief constables.
 Miss Widdecombe : I am delighted to hear that, and I welcome the chief constable's statement. I thank my hon. Friend for bringing that to the House's attention. 457
 Miss Widdecombe : The hon. Gentleman overlooks the fact that we now have a record number of constables. That is clear proof of our commitment.
 Miss Widdecombe : I would like to finish my sentence this time, having given way in the middle of it last time. That demonstrates the high regard in which the police are held.
 Miss Widdecombe : Does the hon. Gentleman still want to interrupt?
 Miss Widdecombe : The hon. Gentleman will be well aware that that very slight fall, against the overall rise, is accounted for by the rise in the number of constables and the flatter management structure, which has resulted in a slight shift in the figures. 459
 Miss Widdecombe : We believe that we have taken into account all relevant factors in reaching our conclusions. I accept the hon. Lady's point. The pensions problem is a difficult and major one, and although it has an impact on all forces, it affects certain forces in particular.
 Miss Widdecombe : Not having the powers of a clairvoyant, I do not know what the media will do. I have learnt not to hope for entirely fair treatment, and again on this occasion I will not risk putting money on receiving fair treatment from them. However, I join my hon. Friend in hoping that the media will indeed reflect accurately the considerable support that is clearly demonstrated by what I have been saying. 460
 Miss Widdecombe : Will the hon. Gentleman confirm that we did in fact, approve sufficient funds for 1,000 additional officers in 1992–93, that some police
 462
 Miss Widdecombe : As the hon. Gentleman deludes himself utterly that he is practising for government—I assure him that he is not—perhaps he could give us a foretaste of exactly what his Government will do and answer the question that was aptly put to him. How much more would a Labour Government spend on the police, and has the right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East (Mr. Brown) agreed to that spending?
 Miss Widdecombe : Does not Merseyside still have more police officers per 1,000 head of population than any other force outside London? As money is allocated on the basis of population, is it not also true that the Merseyside population is decreasing and that the number of officers in that force, as in others, is a matter for the chief constable?
 Miss Widdecombe : The right hon. Gentleman has honestly said that he would increase the number of police officers even further, and has acknowledged that that would have resource implications. Has he calculated how great those implications would be, and how does he intend to raise the money?
 Miss Widdecombe : I should have liked to say that this has been an interesting debate, but what has been most interesting is that it has exposed the utter sham of Labour's policy. Labour Members have spent the entire debate criticising resources, yet, as the right hon. Member for Berwick-upon-Tweed (Mr. Beith) rightly pointed out, at the same time they admit that they would not make any extra money available.
 Miss Widdecombe : It is a fact of life that we now have 16,000 more officers than we had when the Labour party was in power. It is a fact of life that the Labour party, which criticises us for the resources we provide but which does not promise any more, in the last two years of its last term of office—which, I am sure, the entire nation remembers with horror—decreased spending on the police in real terms, first, by 5.5 per cent. and then by an additional 0.5 per cent. We need no lessons from the Labour party on resourcing the police.
 Miss Widdecombe : I fully understand the figures, but we do not appear to have heard, amidst the large amount of criticism, a clear statement of what the Labour party would do. We have no idea whether the council tax payer would pay less under Labour.  [Interruption.]
 Miss Widdecombe : Far short of being nailed, I demonstrated clearly that we did provide the extra funding. I showed that the number of officers increased by 845 or so in that year. The trouble is that the hon. Gentleman, wanting to complain about resources but being unable to promise extra resources, not knowing
 477
 Miss Widdecombe : I have heard enough nonsense. [HON. MEMBERS: "Hear, hear."] I do not like nonsense, because I like sense to be talked in the House. The hon. Gentleman is right that I do not like the nonsense that he talks, and I do not intend to listen to much more of it tonight.
 Miss Widdecombe : I will not give way this time, but I may later. I want to make progress.
 Miss Widdecombe : The trouble is that the hon. Member for Cardiff, South and Penarth (Mr. Michael) cannot understand what he is being told. The nonsense that I was referring to was that which is being talked by the Opposition tonight, not by the Government.
 Miss Widdecombe : The Labour agenda on crime is to say one thing and vote in the Lobby for something quite different. The only difference this time is that, instead of voting with their feet, Labour Members sat on their hands. They could not even make up their minds what they wanted to do. The hon. Gentleman knows that his party is all talk and no do when the time comes to deliver on the measures. 478
 Miss Widdecombe : I have a great deal of sympathy with my hon. Friend's remarks about preferring detention in special centres to detention in discrete parts of prison. That is why we have opened Campsfield house and Tinsley house and why the percentage of those detained in our prison system has declined. It is a shared objective. Meanwhile, if we believe that people should be detained and if that view is upheld by independent adjudicators, we believe that it is right that we must supply enough space. As we do not have enough space in our detention centres, we must use prisons.
 Miss Widdecombe : I am amazed at that series of questions. I can only conclude that two things must be true: first, that the hon. Lady had prepared her remarks before she came in; and, secondly, that she did not manage somehow to revise them in the light of what I have already said.
 Miss Widdecombe : I am always available to my right hon. and hon. Friends and to Opposition Members to discuss these issues.
 Miss Widdecombe : What I find unconvincing is the tendency of Opposition Members to deplore the present situation, without actually saying what the alternative is. Is the alternative seriously not to detain anybody? Is it seriously to release people because they choose distressing methods of attempting to press their case? Should we seriously simply say that anybody who comes to this country, no matter what the circumstances, can wander around free, even if there are very good reasons why we and other responsible persons believe that that should not be allowed? In the absence of any sensible alternative suggestion, I believe that our policy is correct.
 Miss Widdecombe : My hon. Friend has summed up the issue very sensibly. However distressing or difficult the circumstances in which people are now putting themselves, we have food, fluids and all the necessary medical care available. All the help and advice in the world is available to those people. If they choose not to avail themselves of it, I deeply regret that, but in the last analysis, that is their decision.
 Miss Widdecombe : I have already quoted the circumstances in which some of the detainees find themselves in detention. I quoted one case in which a detainee had served a sentence in this country for indecent assault on children. As the hon. Lady challenges my Christianity, perhaps I may quote to her:
 "Whoso shall offend one of these" "little ones … it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck".
 Miss Widdecombe : I do not want any of these detainees to die; that is why the medical attention is available. However, it must be their decision whether to take it up.
 The Minister of State, Home Office (Miss Ann Widdecombe) : Since 6 January, a number of immigration detainees in the detainee centre at HMP Rochester have been refusing regular prison food. Since that date, the number of those involved in the protest has fluctuated considerably. According to the prison, as of today, the number of those involved is 17, although that figure is subject to constant change. 360 361
 Miss Widdecombe : I am obliged to say that I think that the hon. Gentleman's attitude is a complete disgrace. He talks about our routinely imprisoning asylum seekers. How can it be described as a routine action, when out of 44,000 applicants only 750 have been detained? Indeed, we would not wish to detain people: it is very much in their interests and in ours if we do not have to do so. However, there are some cases, such as those that I have described, in which it is necessary. 362
 Miss Widdecombe : I am grateful to my hon. Friend, who represents the constituency in which the events are taking place. The percentage of people detained fluctuates between 1 per cent. and 1·5 per cent. It does not go much higher than that, for the simple reason that, quite apart from the fact that we do not wish to do so, we do not have the facilities to detain on any large scale: we have only about 900 detention places in our system. However, as a result of our putting in 150 extra case workers, we have already significantly reduced the backlog. There has been a reduction of about 10,000 in the past 12 months or so, so there has been a considerable improvement.
 Miss Widdecombe : Reviews are carried out at regular intervals and, as I said, written decisions are taken, and written reasons then given, every month. When someone has been in detention for six months or more, the information is regularly brought before a director in the immigration service.
 Miss Widdecombe : The hon. Gentleman calls on the Government to introduce new procedures. We have spent a considerable part of this Session introducing new procedures, which he and his hon. Friends have voted against. So he is clearly not remotely interested in procedures that will speed up the system. The backlog of enforcement appeals stands at some 13,000, but the hon. Gentleman's deduction that the protest in Rochester is the result of delays is not defensible on the basis of the information that we have before us.
 Miss Widdecombe : Does charity involve not detaining people whom we believe it is in the public interest to detain? If that is the definition of charity, it is the oddest definition that I have heard. As for my allegedly rude answer, I was challenged on a most personal basis of religious belief and I believe that I had every right to answer in like terms.
 Miss Widdecombe : I am most grateful. I believe that that sums up the situation completely.
 Miss Widdecombe   indicated dissent.
 Miss Widdecombe : We have no such plans. Our current plans are that both facilities, should they become available, will be used for category C prisoners.
 Miss Widdecombe : There is no point at which we would force-feed or force on people medical treatment that they had indicated they did not want. We are keeping available medical attention that would immediately assist. We hope that medical intervention would obviate the possibility of a death occurring, but we cannot force that treatment on people. If they decide to refuse it, that must be a matter for them.
 Miss Widdecombe : Those who are seeking asylum are in this country because we have to go through the proper procedures. They are entitled to appeal and, if they choose, to judicial review. Sometimes, even when all avenues have been exhausted and we wish to remove them, documentation and difficulties from the receiving country can make that difficult. For all those reasons, they are in this country. Those who are in the country in the circumstances described by my hon. Friend are precisely the ones who are cases for detention.
 Miss Widdecombe : My hon. Friend is right. We detain only about 1·5 per cent.—currently about 1 per cent.—of those who are seeking asylum. The rest, to whom we give temporary admission while we sort out their cases, are free to go anywhere they like in this country. In other countries, that is not so: those who are seeking asylum are held in reception centres and their movements are heavily limited. Our approach to those who are seeking asylum is a model of humanity.
 Miss Widdecombe : I honour the reasoning behind that question, and I understand that such a case could be made in the interests of preserving life. However, if people who are in full possession of their faculties decide that they do not want a particular course of medicine, regardless of whether they are in detention or free in society, it cannot be forced upon them.
 Madam Speaker : I have made my views very clear about personal remarks. Does the hon. Member for Warley, East (Mr. Faulds) wish to make some comment?
 Madam Speaker : Order. Abusive exchanges about personalities across the Floor of the House must cease. We are concerned with Government policy and not with personalities.
 Madam Speaker : I am much obliged to the hon. Gentleman.
 Madam Speaker : I am very grateful to the hon. Member for Birmingham, Perry Barr (Mr. Rooker) for giving me a little notice of his problem. I share his view that it is totally unacceptable that the House and hon. Members should not receive even a holding answer more than two weeks after the event. That is stated not only in guidelines, but in Standing Order No. 18(4), which clearly provides that Ministers shall answer questions tabled for a named day—I believe that the hon. Gentleman gave a named day with his question—
 "on the date for which notice has been given."
 Madam Speaker : There is nothing further that I can help the House with following my clear statement yesterday.
 Madam Speaker : I remind the House that with this we are discussing Government amendments Nos. 246 to 250, 252 and 253.
 Madam Speaker : That is very sensible.
 Madam Speaker : I remind the House that private notice questions deal with a specific issue, and I ask the many hon. Members who are standing to make their questions to the point and to ask them very briskly.
 Madam Speaker : Order. We are getting on to the subject of a different prisoner in a different situation. Does the Minister want to respond to that? The question was quite outside the terms of the private notice question.
 Madam Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss Government amendments Nos. 38, 39, 241, 233, 40, and 102, Government new schedule 2, and Government amendments Nos. 121 and 103.
 Madam Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss amendment No 145, in page 28, line 7, after '(rules);', insert
 '"prescribed minimum standard" means an absence of proved misconduct reports'.
 Madam Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss Government amendment No. 30.
 Madam Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss Government amendments Nos. 225 and 226.
 Madam Speaker : It has also just won the Queen's anniversary prize for higher and further education.
 Madam Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss also the following amendments: Government amendments Nos. 46 to 52.
 Madam Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss Government amendments Nos. 260, 261, 44, 262 to 264, 93, 265 to 268, 94, 269, 270, 95, 271, 96 and 272 to 276.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss also No. 141, in page 57, line 45, at end add
 'and where there is a byelaw in force prohibiting the public consumption of alcohol it shall be an offence punishable on summary conviction by a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale for a person not so to comply with a requirement made under subsection (1) or (2) above'.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : That is not a point of order, but the hon. Gentleman has made his point.
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : Order. Before the debate continues, may I say that I hope that there will not be a wide-ranging debate on taxation, which I would not regard as being in order?
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : To the best of my knowledge, there is no ruling on that. Certainly, it would be normal practice for the proposer to allow time for other hon. Members, but there is no ruling.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : Order. We must move on to the next topic.
 Mr. A. J. Beith  (Berwick-upon-Tweed) : I hope that the hon. Gentleman will remind those Labour-controlled local authorities that the right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East (Mr. Brown) has made it clear that those spending plans cannot be changed.
 Mr. Beith : We would need about £100 million, and every one of our Budget presentations in the past two years has set out ways in which we would fund it. The commitment is specific, and in the run-up to the election we will do the costings again and demonstrate precisely how it would be done. It is not an enormous commitment, but we think that it is cost-effective and addresses the need sensed by the public to have more police officers available in communities, to deter crime and restore confidence, and not to do so in such a way that they are constantly being recalled into other parts of the hard-pressed police service.
 Mr. Beith : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. 473
 Mr. A. J. Beith  (Berwick-upon-Tweed) : The settlement will not meet the known needs of the police service. The increase in the total standard spending assessment is £220 million, but the local authority associations estimate that the inescapable costs of the continuing employment of existing police officers and staff mean that the increase needed is higher—at least £250 million. That would not allow for the pressures on the police that require additional expenditure, including the cost of the DNA database, the increased workload and the demand for more closed circuit television, which can be a valuable crime-fighting resource. 471 472
 Mr. Beith : I should be delighted if the hon. Gentleman or, indeed, any member of any party in any future Government was able to meet the first of those commitments, and Government press releases honestly stated what was happening. That is a very desirable objective, which I entirely endorse. Changing priorities require the placing of additional resources in particular areas, some of which the hon. Gentleman mentioned. It would make a great deal of difference to fighting crime, especially youth crime, if we spent more money on education, as I am sure he agrees. That is another area in which the right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East has made it clear that no more money can be committed.
 Mr. Alan Howarth  (Stratford-on-Avon) : I am grateful for the opportunity to draw attention to the needs of people suffering from neurological conditions, and the needs of their families and carers. Early-day motion 252, in my name and supported by 55 right hon. and hon. Members, briefly states the issues on which I would like to enlarge. The words of the early-day motion are:
 "That this House notes that some 1.8 million people in the United Kingdom are significantly affected by a neurological condition, that the needs of many of them for both health and social care are complex and inadequately met and that organisational structures and interests may obstruct the provision of appropriate services; and calls upon local authorities, health authorities and NHS trusts to apply both the letter and the spirit of the National Health Service and Community Care Act 1990 through joint planning and commissioning of services for people affected by a neurological condition." 323 324 325 "the health of the carer, regardless of the seventy of the illness, is not a consideration in the decision to move her." 326 "The first rights of access under the Act place duties on service providers not to refuse service and not to provide it on less favourable terms." "Because of financial constraints, the Department was in danger of reducing its role to a minimalist reactive one, concentrating only on its statutory obligations to those most at risk and neglecting those capable of rehabilitation, which is not a viable long term strategy." 327
 Mr. Alan Howarth : How many people who were on incapacity benefit have simply disappeared from the records rather than going on to jobseeker's allowance or moving into a job? Does the hon. Lady know? Does she care?
 Mr. Alan Meale  (Mansfield) : Is my hon. Friend aware that no one knows how some of the people on the lottery boards got there? Some of them are place people, who are full-time local authority officials. Hardly any of them have been elected. They make some very wild decisions. If politicians made such decisions, they would be derided by the press on the front pages of local newspapers.
 Mr. Alex Salmond  (Banff and Buchan) : Is the Minister seriously saying that, in his opinion, the excess mortality, a well-observed scientific fact through the winter months, bears no relation to the coldness of the climate and ability of certain people to afford heating?
 Mr. Salmond : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. The Minister is making the speech that he did not make on Friday. Is it in order to reply to this debate with such a speech?
 Mr. Allan Stewart  (Eastwood) : Unusually for me, I must say that my right hon. and learned Friend the Minister did not give a wholly adequate reply to the hon. Member for Orkney and Shetland (Mr. Wallace) on the powers of entry. Such powers have been described as iniquitous by bodies such as the Glasgow Bar Association. One can of course argue that it comes at the question from a particular angle, but I hope that my right hon. and learned Friend has an opportunity to reconsider what he has said. [Interruption.] 432
 Mr. Alun Michael  (Cardiff, South and Penarth) : Will the hon. Lady have the grace to acknowledge that average police numbers rose faster, year by year, during the life of the last Labour Government than under this Government? That hardly bears out her claim, which is not justified.
 Mr. Michael : Yes, indeed. The problems that the Government have given to local authorities are very considerable and clear. As we all realise, an incoming Government will inherit the problems created by the current Government.
 Mr. Michael : The hon. Gentleman seems not to have understood the importance of what I am saying. His party went to the 1992 general election promising 1,000 additional police officers and has not delivered that. It is now promising an additional 5,000 police officers, and it is not providing the resources or putting in the money to meet the Prime Minister's promise. 463
 Mr. Michael : The hon. Gentleman should know full well—although I appreciate that he, like the Home Secretary, avoided accountancy and went into law, which is probably just as well—that the Government are saying that they are giving extra money to the police, but that they are not giving Government money to the police They are not providing the money they take from taxpayers to provide the rises. They are saying, "It's not coming out of our sums. We'll take it out of council money instead, and let council tax payers pay for it." They hope that local authorities will be blamed, although the burden will have been placed on local taxpayers because of the Government's decisions. 466
 Mr. Michael : That is a little essay for the defence, I suppose. Merseyside has considerable crime problems. The police in Merseyside whom I visited a few weeks ago face chronic problems. The people of Wirral to whom I was listening only days ago said that they were unhappy with the lack of resources for the Merseyside police. The settlement makes matters worse for the people of Merseyside.
 Mr. Michael : My hon. Friend is right. It is interesting that local people—this was clear in Wirral—see through what the Government have been up to. Those people recognise that promises are made and not kept, and that
 464 269–70 Official Report 465 Official Report
 Mr. Michael : No. I am going straight to the target of the debate, which is the Government's hypocrisy in making a statement that makes it appear that they are giving money to the police, when they are in fact picking the pockets of local people to obtain the sums that are at the bottom of the finance sheet. That is what our debate should be about: that needs to be exposed. "We are continuing to increase police numbers. There will be 1,000 extra officers this year." "The Government plans to increase police establishments further in 1992–93 by nearly 1,000 police officers."
 Mr. Alun Michael  (Cardiff, South and Penarth) : I pay tribute to the ingenuity of Ministers. Every effort was made to ensure that the House was not misled—that must have been very difficult, because the facts relating to police finance are now becoming clear. Far from giving the police an extra 3·7 per cent. this year, total Government support will rise by less than 2 per cent.—1·98 per cent., to be precise. "My top priority is maintaining law and order and tackling crime." "Planned spending fully reflects that commitment." "More funding for police authorities will allow the police service to continue the fight against criminals and to recruit another 2,000 constables." 461 "In a year when we have more bobbies on the beat than ever before. I am delighted that we will be able to give police authorities increased spending power to continue the fight against crime"
 Mr. Michael : I look forward to the first Home Office questions after the general election, when I hope that it will be appropriate for the hon. Lady to ask the questions. She should be more interested in providing a cogent explanation of why she serves in a Government whose Prime Minister promised 1,000 extra police officers and failed to deliver that, and why her settlement today fails to deliver the promise. That is the sort of Prime Minister and Government that we have. That is why it is about time they were swept away.
 Mr. Michael : I shall come to the numbers in a moment, but it is a fact that, in 1992–93, responsibility for deciding police establishment and police numbers had not been taken away from the Home Office. That happened in the 1994 Act. The Minister cannot evade responsibility on behalf of her colleagues. In fact, police numbers went down during that year.
 Mr. Michael : I am grateful to the hon. Lady. These issues will come up in debate, but I think that she should
 458
 Mr. Michael   rose
 Mr. Michael : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Michael : Does the hon. Lady recall that the promise made by the Prime Minister before the last general election to increase police numbers by 1,000 was not surrounded by caveats? It was a direct promise, and it was not delivered. Why has the Prime Minister's promise—which also was not surrounded by caveats—of 5,000 extra police not been delivered?
 Mr. Michael : The hon. Lady is asking questions again. Why was there nothing about crime, violence or guns in the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994, which was supposed to be a landmark Act, until Labour moved amendments to it? She is wrong. We have set the agenda on these issues. The Government have repeatedly voted down Labour proposals to deal with violent crime and these issues. The Minister just repeats the mantra, and she is wrong.
 Mr. Michael : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Is it appropriate for the hon. Lady to refer to Home Office figures for which she is responsible as "nonsense"?
 Mr. Michael   rose
 Mr. Michael : Education is one of Labour's five specific commitments. Another is to provide jobs and opportunities for young people in the 18 to 25 age group. I am sure that the right hon. Gentleman will acknowledge that that would make a significant contribution to the environment in which—
 Mr. Michael : I suppose that the right hon. Gentleman will go on to make his own party's spending commitments for the police and other things. I simply do not accept that nothing will change. The amount of money available will certainly not change, but what will change under a Labour Government is, first, honesty about how we deal with such matters, and secondly, the priorities of tackling the problems of crime that have been exacerbated by the Government's policies—visibly, considering the mountain of crime that has been created since they came to power. Those two changes will make a great deal of difference.
 Mr. Michael   rose
 Mr. Michael : The con trick is the one that the hon. Lady is trying to play on the people of the country. The con trick, to use her term, is a Prime Minister who promises 1,000 extra police officers and does not deliver—who promises 5,000 extra police officers and does not provide the resources. That is the con trick that the Government are trying to play on the people of the country. It is a disgrace, and they have been nailed in the debate tonight.
 Mr. Michael : The hon. Lady is back in opposition mode, asking questions. I said that the Home Secretary has pretended to provide resources to the police but has not done so. He is providing an increase to the police that does not keep pace with inflation. He is making local authorities find the money for the police. Does she not understand the figures that she is speaking to?
 Mr. Michael : The whole purpose of our remarks has been to expose the fact that the Government are pretending that they are providing resources to the police, but that they have not provided resources to the police,
 476
 Mr. Andrew Faulds  (Warley, East) : As a final conclusion, does the hon. Lady realise that, second only to the Home Secretary, she is the most nauseous personality in the place?
 Mr. Faulds : I need no prompting from such a gentleman. I have consulted one of my more Christian colleagues, and I was reprimanded by him that it was un-Christian comment. On that ground, as an old-fashioned Presbyterian—and in order to oblige you, Madam Speaker—of course I withdraw that observation.
 Mr. Andrew Welsh  (Angus, East) : My hon. Friend has made a powerful case and has shown the inadequacy of
 296
 Mr. Barry Jones  (Alyn and Deeside) : I am glad to follow the hon. Member for Meirionnydd Nant Conwy (Mr. Llwyd). I was also pleased to hear the cogent and well-informed speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Cardiff, South and Penarth (Mr. Michael). 469 470
 Mr. Sheerman : Is not the Secretary of State worried that a combination of extremely low pay and a growing number of short-term contracts—many universities have more than half their staff on such contracts—will depress standards even in the medium term? That must concern all hon. Members. Is it not time that the Government realised what an asset we have in our universities? If we run down that asset, our possibilities for wealth creation and the regeneration of local communities will be severely damaged.
12.  Mr. Sheerman : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment what steps she is taking to retain and recruit high-quality staff in British universities. [11737]
 Mr. Cash : Will the hon. Lady give way on that point?
 Mr. Cash : I issued an invitation to many of my colleagues, asking whether they wished to speak. Only one said that he wished to do so. I have had a series of repeated interventions from Opposition Members, which have delayed me, but I shall press on. "no more than an empty shell". 282
 Mr. Cash : I am delighted that the hon. Gentleman has made that point, because, only a short time ago, Klaus Kinkel effectively said that he thought that the British people should vote for the Labour party, as a soft option—which is precisely what it is. I hope that those following the debate will take that point on board. The tour shows considerable determination and a desire to get the issues out into the open.
 Mr. Cash : After I had spoken to them in French—which surprised them as much as it surprised me—they gave me the most tremendous reception. The speech was shown on "Panorama". Those people listened, because they know that their destiny is tied to ours. 277 "Revisions to the Treaty must be agreed by all. We must be realistic therefore about the sort of changes we can hope to achieve at the IGC, just as we are clear about the sort of changes we will not accept." "If we were to press ideas which stand no chance of general acceptance, some others would seek to impose an integrationist agenda which would be equally unacceptable from our point of view." "It is on this basis that the Government will be approaching the" "Conference." 278 Sunday Express, "one of the Prime Minister's closest friends and advisers" "calls for a Conservative pact with Labour" "imperil the very fabric of the Community." 279 "imperil the very fabric of the Community." The Times. 280 281 "Open to all, agreed by, all should be our watchword."
 Mr. William Cash  (Stafford) : In the words of the Foreign Secretary last week:
 "The issue of flexibility is probably the most important issue that is being discussed at the intergovernmental conference." "EMU is probably the most highly developed form of flexibility"—
 Mr. Cash : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his intervention, because my next words were going to be, "Trade, yes; government, no." That is the distinction, and I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman has not seen it.
 Mr. Cash : Trade and political co-operation are perfectly reasonable. The point that the hon. Gentleman is missing is that, under the rubric of economic and
 270
 Mr. Cash : In the context of a number of matters in respect of trading relationships, there are perfectly reasonable arguments in favour of qualified majority voting. Otherwise, it would be impossible to remove the logjam and to increase the competition that is necessary for an enterprise Europe. That is the distinction.
 Mr. Cash : I agree. It is, in fact, essential for us to apply ourselves to reforming the Single European Act. The principle may be acceptable, but the problem is that it has gone badly wrong in a range of areas, the most recent example being the 48-hour working time directive, which came in through the back door. A raft of matters require reform—but that is not to say that the principle of freeing trade in Europe is itself a bad idea. "Adenauer knew exactly what the British represented. To him they were an essential factor in building the future Europe. Britain's inherent stability and liberal tradition"— 271 "stand in clear contrast to continental Europe."
 Mr. Cash : As the hon. Gentleman knows, I speak in Germany, in France and in other countries throughout Europe, as he does, and I have found much enthusiastic support for the ideas that we are advancing today. We are becoming not merely an economic role model for Europe, but a political role model for many people who are disappointed and gravely disturbed by the developments since the single market. 272
 Mr. Cash : I am delighted that the hon. Gentleman made that point, because, as I have made clear time and again, and again today, my objective is not that we should leave the European Union. I am saying that the consequences of the direction in which we are being taken present a price to the British people, the electorate and the voters, which is taking us further and further towards that critical position. I am saying that, unless we renegotiate the treaties, we are set on a course that will lead us to the impossible question, which I put in the confidence motion debate, of whether we have to leave. That may be too high a price.
 Mr. Cash : What complete rubbish the hon. Gentleman speaks. Apart from anything else, poll after poll shows that Britain wants a Europe that works within a single market, but that Britain does not want to come out. The tendency towards coming out is growing precisely because of the failure to clarify these questions. Much of the responsibility for that lies with the hon. Gentleman and his hon. Friends.
 Mr. Cash : My hon. Friend, who has fought many battles with me and other hon. Members who are in the Chamber, is right. The problem is the confusion and the lack of clarity, and the refusal to face the fact that the problem cannot be resolved unless we renegotiate the arrangements that are taking us deeper into the European Union. As that proceeds, it will lead us into greater difficulties.
 Mr. Cash : I have made it clear that some areas in the single market require reform and that those reforms cannot be achieved without treaty changes, which require unanimity. I shall come to that later. I should have thought that it was in the interests of everybody in Europe, let alone hon. Members, to try to make the European Union work effectively. That is the bottom line. I am saying not that we should come out but that we could reach the point—and we are getting close to it—where that became a serious possibility
 Mr. Cash : I am delighted by my right hon. Friend's intervention, because he has enormous experience in those matters, not least because he has been Paymaster General and Minister with responsibility for Europe, and was deputy Chief Whip during the Maastricht debates. I am delighted not only by the clarity and logic of his argument, but by his Damascene conversion, on which I offer him my heartiest congratulations. 274
 Mr. Cash : I entirely agree with the hon. Gentleman. The central bank arrangements, which are within the aegis of the European Court of Justice, specifically state that the governors of the bank may not seek or take instructions from member states. That cuts across section 4 of our Bank of England Act 1946 and makes it crystal clear that the umbilical cord connecting Parliament and the electorate—the people who vote in line with their priorities, thus exercising the freedom of choice for which people in this country have fought and died—would be handed over to completely unaccountable, bureaucratic bankers with no guarantee that they will deliver. We have only to look at the mess of the exchange rate mechanism to imagine what would happen if the entire system were placed in the hands of the people who are running that.
 Mr. Cash : My hon. Friend puts the matter well, and he is dead right. The problem is that, throughout the House, in the nation as a whole and elsewhere in Europe, concern has built up since the Maastricht treaty. That should lead us to re-evaluate the decisions that were taken at that time, but nothing is being done about that. I shall come to the mechanism that I propose to get renegotiation going. Everybody knows that the system is going ahead. Although the federalists are winning, there is a general protest that, somehow or other, we are doing something to stop the process. Some effective discussions are taking place, but they are neither negotiations nor renegotiations. The New Yorker, 276
 Mr. Bill Walker  (North Tayside) : Does my hon. Friend agree that the strength of this Parliament is that, if we make mistakes and get things wrong, we can put them right? One of the great problems is that, under European legislation, we cannot do that. If we get it wrong, as we did with the Single European Act—which I did not vote for—we can put it right: we could have put that right in the House. That is what the argument is about.
 Mr. Bill Walker : In practice, the so-called opening up has not happened. Qualified majority voting may produce
 283
 Mr. Bill Walker : Will my hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Bill Walker : I remind the hon. Lady that between 1972 and 1975 those of us who had read the treaty of Rome
 287
 Mr. Bill Walker  (North Tayside) : I have followed the hon. Gentleman's argument carefully. Is he saying that it is wrong to provide more public money, means-tested or otherwise, and that the Government should change their policy?
 Mr. Bill Walker : When we discuss these matters, it is important that we study all the facts. My hon. Friend will know that the Royal Air Force built bases at Dalcross, Lossiemouth and Kinloss because of the weather factor—the best in the United Kingdom—and because of the fact that, on the east coast, for instance at Binbrook in Lincolnshire, the wind chill factor is bound to be much higher. The RAF would not be able to fly there at given times of the year.
 Mr. Bill Walker : Does my hon. Friend agree that getting rid of a helpful allowance is an interesting proposition which would bring back the winter of discontent and the good time that we all enjoyed under the last Labour Government?
 Mr. Bryan Davies : We all understand why morale in universities is not high. What about the bombshell that the Secretary of State suddenly exploded this week among further education colleges? Will she confirm that she has refused to fund the demand-led expansion of student numbers, to which colleges are already committed, with students on their courses and private providers already under contract? What is the explanation for that disastrous decision? Why has it been taken now, in the middle of the education year? Has she any idea of the number of colleges that will be plunged into deficit as a result of the decision? How many jobs will be lost in the public and private sectors? Does she accept that the House requires an explanation?
 Mr. Charles Kennedy : The hon. Gentleman is an historian.
 Mr. Charles Kennedy  (Ross, Cromarty and Skye) : I, too, congratulate the hon. Member for Perth and Kinross (Ms Cunningham) on securing this debate, and on the excellence of her speech and the arguments that she deployed. 304 Hansard Hansard
 Mr. Charles Kennedy : Because the right hon. Gentleman has such a reputation in the House for decency, the record should show that even he could not keep a straight face when making that last comment.
 Mr. Charles Kennedy  (Ross, Cromarty and Skye) : I am sure that the hon. Lady will develop her and her party's argument for a fundamental change to the system, but does she agree that she, the hon. Member for Moray (Mrs. Ewing) and I have seen some interim improvements, and that more sensitivity has been displayed in terms of location of weather station, although glaring anomalies are still very much to the fore? I could cite several from my area, such as the Isle of Skye, mid-west Ross and Inverness. Does she agree that, at least as an interim measure, the Minister should consider a review short of a fundamental, wholesale review of the system?
 Mr. Charles Kennedy  (Ross, Cromarty and Skye) : I do not want to anticipate the hon. Gentleman's speech, but he said in reply to the hon. Member for Kingston upon Hull, West (Mr. Randall) that repeated opinion polls had shown that people wanted Britain to remain in a single market. The Government have frequently stated that the completion of the single market to our satisfaction was made possible only by the use of the veto. In the new renegotiated relationship that the hon. Gentleman seeks, from which aspects of the current single market would he wish to reclaim the veto?
 Mr. Pickthall : Will the Minister confirm that, during the lifetime of this Parliament, from 1992–93 to 1996–97—which is a realistic period to take—the weighted increase in primary and secondary standard spending assessments per pupil in Lancashire was 3·7 per cent., while during the same period cumulative inflation in the education budget was 13·3 per cent., so that under the Government Lancashire has had to wrestle with a reduction of 10 per cent. in its schools budget? To fill that gap, it has had to rip all its non-statutory education obligations to bits. Will the Minister advise the right hon. Member for South Ribble (Mr. Atkins) to talk to the treasurer's department in Lancashire, which will gladly provide him with those figures and a lot more besides?
13.  Mr. Dafis : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment what proposals she has to improve morale among schoolteachers. [11738]
 Mr. Dafis : Does the Minister accept that the Government's insistence on placing the principles of competition and market forces at the heart of the education system has contributed to the reduction in teacher morale and that the continuing campaign on grant-maintained schools is an exacerbating factor? How will she ensure that information provided to parents by the Grant Maintained Schools Foundation in England and Wales when ballots are held is accurate and complete?
 358
 Mr. Blunkett : That, of course, is not our policy at all. Did the Minister's answer to my hon. Friend the Member for Falkirk, West (Mr. Canavan) constitute the Government's response to the heartfelt appeal by the Rev. David Shepherd, the Bishop of Liverpool, earlier this week in relation to unemployment and the despair and feelings of the quarter of a million young men and women under the age of 25 who have been out of education or employment for more than six months? Will he confirm that the use of our proposed windfall tax to put them back into work would not only give them hope of being able to earn their living and create families, but would give their younger brothers and sisters hope that,
 352
 Mr. Congdon : Does my hon. Friend agree that the significant thing about the UK economy is that we have falling unemployment—it has fallen by 1 million since its peak—whereas our major European partners have increasing unemployment? Is not the reason for that the fact that they have imposed the social costs on their economies that the Labour party wants to impose on this economy, which would destroy jobs in this country?
 Mr. David Congdon  (Croydon, North-East) : I welcome my hon. Friend's statement on a serious and difficult matter. Does she agree that, however difficult and awful it may be when people go on hunger strike, it should not deflect us from the point that detention is necessary in a minority of cases? Does she further agree that, in the light of the case histories outlined in the House this afternoon, many people might wonder why some of the asylum seekers are still in this country?
 The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Mr. David Davis) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Stafford (Mr. Cash) not only on securing this debate but on the best speech that I have heard him make on this subject in all the many years I have listened to him. I grant that it was not the shortest speech, but then that is a pretty difficult race to win. Although I obviously do not agree with everything that he said—not least his apparent comparison between Neville Chamberlain and myself in respect of appeasement—I certainly felt that he addressed the issue vigorously, as did the whole House.
 Mr. Davis : I was asked that question on the radio. After five minutes of discussing what Mr. Kinkel said, the radio interviewer attacked me for not being more critical of him. I think that the hon. Gentleman is trying to ask what right my right hon. and learned Friend the Foreign Secretary has to put his views. The answer is a very great right. Our argument is recognised and supported by many of the peoples in Europe, and it is perfectly right for my
 290 "let's disentangle those two quite separate concepts … let's take first the issue of majority voting and then we can look at the issue of centralisation".
 Mr. David Heathcoat-Amory  (Wells) : Perhaps I may offer the House an example. In European Standing Committee B. we shall shortly consider a particularly short-sighted proposal by the European Commission for a compulsory levy on the resale of all modern works of art. Not only is that a tax, but it will drive business away from London and the European Union to other art centres such as New York and Geneva. The tax is being imposed by the Commission on spurious single market grounds and can therefore be decided by majority voting. The issue is not only to retain the unanimity principle in central areas of taxation, but to ensure that the Commission does not try to circumvent those rules by proposing fiscal measures on single market grounds.
 Mr. Jamieson : Does the Minister realise that primary schools in Staffordshire could be assisted greatly if the £2 million of taxpayers' money that is being paid under
 353
9.  Sir David Knox : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment how much was spent per primary school pupil in Staffordshire in the most recent year for which figures are available; and what the figure was in 1978–79, at constant prices. [11734]
 Sir David Knox : Will my hon. Friend confirm that, although expenditure per primary school pupil in Staffordshire is lower than the national average, there has nevertheless been a very significant increase in expenditure under this Government, whereas there was a real-terms reduction in expenditure under the last Labour Government?
 Sir David Madel : Will my hon. Friend confirm that, as long as standards go on rising in schools, the Government will continue to support the expansion of university education?
 Mr. Dover : Will the Minister accept that any low morale among schoolteachers in Lancashire is due to the fact that, in the past two years, the Government have provided an extra £45 million in education spending, but precious little of that has been passed down to the schools?
 Mr. Canavan : Is it not one of the great national scandals of our time that about a third of unemployed people are under 25? Is it not becoming increasingly obvious that this Tory Government offer no hope to those young people, who need the election of a Labour Government committed to using a windfall tax on the privatised utilities to provide real training opportunities and real jobs for 250,000 unemployed young people, whom the Government have deprived of the right to work?
8.  Mr. Canavan : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment if she will introduce measures to improve educational, training and employment opportunities for young people. [11733]
 Mr. Canavan : The total is 600,000 under 25.
 Mr. Skinner : Is the Minister aware that there is hardly anyone in Britain, apart from the Tory bunch opposite, who does not realise that the jobseeker's allowance is another one of the many fiddles—there have been about 30 in all—used by the Government to kid people that there are only 1·8 million people out of work? The truth, as the  News of the World
 Mr. Skinner : Consultations are still taking place.
5.  Mr. Skinner : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment what estimate he has made of the effect of the introduction of jobseeker's allowance claimants on the unemployment figures since October 1996. [11730]
 Mr. Don Foster : Further to that answer, why cannot the Minister give a straight answer to the hon. Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Winterton)? Why cannot she tell him and the House that she will extend the consultation period to enable a wide range of alternative suggestions to be considered? Does she accept that, although changes to the teachers' pension scheme are needed, her Department's handling of the matter has been nothing short of a public relations disaster, and that as a result it has further reduced the morale of all those in the teaching profession?
 Mr. Doug Henderson  (Newcastle upon Tyne, North) : Does the Minister recall that, when the Asylum and
 363
 Sir Dudley Smith  (Warwick and Leamington) : Is my hon. Friend aware that all hunger strikers practise moral blackmail on society? Does she agree that, however compelling certain cases might be—I do not accept that the cases we are debating are compelling—to give way undermines the structures that underpin our society and our approach to sensible living?
 Mr. Garnier : Has the Department studied the likely effect of the removal of child benefit for over-16-year-olds on educational, training and employment opportunities?
 Mr. Elfyn Llwyd  (Meirionnydd Nant Conwy) : I shall keep my speech brief, and plead the case of North Wales police. I should say that, against the background of a tight public spending round, the police settlement has been marginally higher than the settlements for some other services. There are problems, however, particularly in north Wales. Some of the points that I shall make are specific to that area, although some apply to all police forces. 467 468
 Mr. Forth : The answers to the hon. Gentleman's first series of questions are: yes, no, and I do not know at this stage. The answer to his last question is that, if he can produce any evidence to back up the ridiculous overstatement and hyperbole to which he is accustomed, we will of course consider it, but I am not impressed by wild accusations of that type made across the Floor of the House of Commons. They do not help the individuals allegedly involved, or anyone else.
 Mr. Forth : Unemployment is falling primarily because more jobs are being created by enterprise and business in an environment created by the Government. The jobseeker's allowance will help unemployed people to find work and get better value for money for the taxpayer.
 Mr. Forth : The House eagerly awaits a statement from the hon. Gentleman about what occurred in the national executive committee today. Perhaps he will catch your eye, Madam Speaker. I assume from the hon. Gentleman's remarks that, were there to be a Labour Government, one of its first actions would be to declare that there are more than 4 million people out of work. That would be an interesting proposition. That is the logic behind the hon. Gentleman's comments. 347
 Mr. Forth : I assume from the hon. Gentleman's comments, while he still has a meaningful voice on the national executive committee—
 Mr. Forth : My hon. Friend is right. Most hon. Members remember very clearly what happened under the Labour Government—that is to say, the winter of discontent. It will be interesting to hear what the Labour party says in the next few weeks and months about its commitments on trade union and industrial relations law and on the jobseeker's allowance. That will be a key test of Labour's proposals. I await a statement from the hon. Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner) to clarify the position.
 Mr. Forth : That was obviously an example of new Labour, new language. I assume that the hon. Gentleman is in close collusion with his hon. Friends on the Front Bench, who are constantly telling us about literacy and higher educational standards. If what he has just said is an example of their drive for higher standards, it does not bode well for the future.
 The Minister of State, Department for Education and Employment (Mr. Eric Forth) : The Employment Service and the Benefits Agency are carrying out continuous monitoring of the operation of jobseeker's allowance and produce regular joint reports to the Secretaries of State for Education and Employment and for Social Security.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : Order. We are getting rather wide of the debate.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The Minister is responsible for her own speech, as the hon. Gentleman well knows.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : With permission, I shall put together the following two motions relating to delegated legislation.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : I hope that in such a short debate it is a genuine point of order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order As I feared, that was not a point of order.
 Mr. Robertson : The Minister is pointing to the fact that his boss has now arrived back from the party. We are all privileged to see the Secretary of State here this evening, although he will sit silent for the rest of the debate. [Interruption.] 450
 Mr. Robertson : I am perfectly capable of relying on those who do have the vote. Underlining the fact that his brother is an hereditary peer will not get the Minister off the hook of the duke's criticisms and his relevant and pertinent attacks on the Conservative Government. The duke told me that he is not a professional duke, but a professional engineer. Why cannot the Minister answer his arguments instead of slagging him off for being a member of the upper House? Flourish, "When parents dare not let their children go out to play; when senior citizens who have given a lifetime of service to the community are forced to spend their sunset years—which should be among the most rewarding in their lives—as prisoners in their own home; then we have reached a point where action must be taken." 449 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Robertson : I shall get to the question of the boss in a moment. He is the senior counsel and we have been left with the junior counsel. 448
 Mr. George Robertson  (Hamilton) : I shall be brief. I am amazed that, on this important Bill, the Minister can speak at length on amendments on Report, but cannot manage to rise to his feet to speak at the start of the Third Reading debate.
 Mr. Giles Radice  (North Durham) : Of course it is right to say that there are distinctions between us as an island people and the continentals, but most Europeans have wanted the contribution that the British could make, and that is why they wanted us to join the European Union. For example, Brandt gave strong support, as did Adenauer and Erhard. That is why Europeans want us to play a constructive role. That is why Chancellor Kohl does. Just because we can bring a different perspective to the European Union does not mean that that perspective is not also valuable.
 Mr. Radice : The single market was always much more far-reaching than Conservative Members supposed. It always had certain political implications and subjected more decisions to what they call the "interference" of the European Court of Justice. If a single market has rules, there has to be some means of settling any dispute. The Euro-sceptics would like to rule out the European Court of Justice altogether. I will cite some more examples, which the hon. Gentleman may find more difficult to rebut. 284 285
 Mr. Radice : That, I am afraid, is totally incorrect. There is no doubt that the single market has been substantially successful. If the hon. Gentleman had read the European Commission report on the success of the single market, he would understand that many markets have been opened up to British exporters, among others. We have been one of the major beneficiaries of the single market, as Baroness Thatcher well understood. That was one of her sensible policies on the European Union. "If there were an area of European Union policy which could only be advanced through majority voting and which we were convinced would serve important United Kingdom interests, then it would be foolish and illogical of us not to support majority voting in that area."
 Mr. Radice : I understand that.
 Mr. Giles Radice  (North Durham) : I thought that the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Cash) was going to treat the House to an explanation of his position on the national veto, because that was what the debate was apparently meant to be about. Instead, he treated the House to his usual extremely lengthy, wide-ranging, anti-European Union rant, with which those of us who had the misfortune to listen through all the Maastricht debates are all too familiar. Perhaps he was trying to justify his right to write his own manifesto when the time comes—we shall see—or perhaps he is giving a hint to one or two of his colleagues on what they should put in their manifestos.
 Mr. Gordon McMaster  (Paisley, South) : Does my hon. Friend agree that one of the best inducements to under-16-year-olds not to play truant would be to offer them the prospect of a real job when they leave school? Perhaps the Government want to experiment with electronic tagging. In view of the closeness of some of the votes in the next few weeks, Tory Whips might try it on Conservative Members.
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : Is it not a disgrace that, in some parts of the country, it can take up to six months from examination by a general practitioner to examination by a neurologist? My hon. Friend the Member for Stratford-on-Avon (Mr. Howarth) made a key point about the shortage of neurologists. In Lancashire, it can take six months to get an appointment to see a neurologist.
 Mr. Graham Allen  (Nottingham, North) : The strongest argument for an east midlands regional assembly is the way in which the outgoing Tory Government have mistreated and neglected our region, its cities and its counties of Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire, Lincolnshire, Derbyshire and Northamptonshire. The only good thing about such a catastrophic failure of central Government is that it speeds the creation of more democratic and accountable forms of government which are familiar in most western democracies, including an east midlands regional assembly and more effective and independent local government. 481 482
 Mr. Allen : That is probably one of the reasons why, of more than 1,000 projects agreed by the Millennium Commission, only five have come to the east midlands. There is very little local and regional input.
 Mr. Allen : I agree with my hon. Friend. We must reorient the way in which some of these funds are spent so that people throughout the land feel that they are getting a fair crack of the whip. Local people have a greater affinity with some of the important but smaller projects. People do not like the grandiose projects that take place more than a train journey away from where they live. Regional priorities should be better reflected in funding decisions. Lottery boards should have a regional infrastructure and tougher ministerial guidance.
 Mr. Allen : Thanks to the campaigning of, in particular, my hon. Friend the Member for Nottingham, East, but also that of other hon. Members in the Nottingham area, even the Secretary of State had to admit in February that health services in Nottingham were underfunded by about £9 million, and were receiving considerably less than the Government's own figures demanded to meet the needs of Nottingham people. As my hon. Friend rightly pointed out, that has led to the postponement of so-called routine, non-emergency operations in our community medical centre in Nottingham for the remainder of the financial year. The Government must propose a way of ending the shortfall.
 Mr. Allen : I entirely agree. As I have said, the story is repeated in every area of policy. All the Opposition Members who are present have suffered from the nonsense of Government intervention in our region in regard to European funds—the RECHAR money, and the urban initiatives. No Government involvement is actually necessary, but they are blocking real money, particularly money for the former coal mining areas that were decimated by the Government's policies in the 1980s. The regional allocation of challenge funds with no clear rules for their sub-regional allocation leads to serious anomalies between places such as Nottingham and Sheffield, purely because they are covered by different Government regional offices. 484
 Mr. Graham Riddick  (Colne Valley) : In relation to the answer that my hon. Friend gave to my hon. Friend the Member for Ayr (Mr. Gallie), would it not be more humane for medical staff to give fluids to hunger strikers—forcibly if necessary—in one or two highly exceptional cases, to ensure that they do not die or damage themselves permanently?
 Mr. Harry Barnes  (North-East Derbyshire) : In 1989, Derbyshire had a proud record of having generally smaller class sizes than any other shire county. In primary education, it was in second position, just behind Nottinghamshire. Now, it has larger class sizes than any other shire county. The same group of politicians are attempting to operate the same policies, but there is an external factor: the way in which the Government make the standard spending assessment.
 Mr. Harry Greenway : Will my hon. Friend confirm that her Department has received a large number of representations on this question and that it would therefore not be unreasonable to extend the consultation period somewhat? In light of the sheer volume of
 346
 Sir Hector Monro  (Dumfries) : I am glad to follow the hon. Member for Perth and Kinross (Ms Cunningham). All hon. Members would agree with her objectives: we all want Scotland's elderly and vulnerable residents and others who are infirm and require additional heat to be looked after in the best possible way that the country can afford. 298
 Sir Hector Monro : I am simply thinking of the practical results of what is going on among Opposition Members—they seem to be hounding away together, trying to defeat the Government.
 Sir Hector Monro : It seems to me that it would cost considerably more than £170 million to run the cold weather scheme continuously from the end of November through to March, given that it cost £62 million last year for a comparatively short winter, albeit one in which conditions were extremely severe around Christmas. 299
 Sir Hector Monro : I would love to answer the hon. Gentleman's question, but in view of your comments, Madam Deputy Speaker, I will not do so.
 Sir Hector Monro : Any farmer listens to the farming programme at 6.10 every morning.
 Mr. Henry McLeish  (Fife, Central) : I am glad of the opportunity to speak this morning, and I congratulate the hon. Member for Perth and Kinross (Ms Cunningham) on securing a debate on cold weather payments. This is our third opportunity in recent weeks to discuss the issue—we discussed it in a Delegated Legislation Committee and, a few weeks ago, my hon. Friend the Member for Preston (Mrs. Wise) introduced the Cold Weather Payments (Wind Chill Factor) Bill, which the Government deliberately talked out. 305
 Mr. McLeish : I am conscious of the feet that the hon. Gentleman has just entered the Chamber, and I regret allowing him to intervene. He misses the point completely. The Government's economic failure has resulted in the largest increase in poverty in a generation. There has been an explosion in the number of people who depend on the state, and the Government have sought to use taxpayers' money to support them. We object to that morally, socially, politically and economically. That view is shared by hon. Members on both sides of the House, and we are trying to address the problem.
 Mr. McLeish : I shall ignore the hon. Lady's sedentary intervention. 306
 Mr. McLeish : It is slightly warmer in the summer. If the people of Britain were to elect this Government again—that is highly improbable—they would consider the matter during the summer, the tests would not be run in Scotland until the winter, and a report would not be published until next year.
 Mr. McLeish : I want to finish my point.
 Mr. McLeish : I am grateful for the Minister's intervention. If I understand him correctly, the trials are now under way in six stations in Scotland.
 Mr. McLeish : I am grateful to the Minister for intervening again. The Meteorological Office's report suggested that a trial would take place involving six weather stations in Scotland—Scotland was the key target—at a cost of £600. Are those trials—in whatever form; either practical or theoretical and based on modelling—under way today: yes or no?
 Mr. McLeish : The answer to my questions was no, the trials are not going on—so the Government are dragging their feet.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : That was his manifesto.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : Did my hon. Friend speak in French?
 Mr. Iain Duncan Smith  (Chingford) : Is not the counter-proposal the case, because poll after poll shows that a growing number of people—still a minority, but a growing number—have determined that outright departure from the European Community is the only solution, which is worrying? Is not that my hon. Friend's
 273
 Mr. Iain Duncan Smith  (Chingford) : Does my hon. Friend recall that during the private notice question the observation has been made that Britain is almost alone in using detention centres for asylum seekers? That is quite bogus. Many countries use detention centres, but others
 368
 Mr. Ian Bruce  (South Dorset) : Will my hon. Friend comment on speculation in the press that two temporary prisons on land and a possible floating prison that might end up in my constituency in Portland might be used as detention centres for asylum seekers? Is such speculation correct, and is that the Government's intention?
 Mr. Ian Bruce  (South Dorset) : This is a short debate I wonder whether the hon. Gentleman is about to come to the kernel of his speech—I am sure that he is—and tell us how much more a Labour Government would give the police. Surely, any other words condemning the Government are sheer hypocrisy.
 Mr. Pearson : Is the Minister aware of the widespread dismay felt by jobseekers in the west midlands at recent reports that half of manufacturing companies are experiencing recruitment difficulties while those jobseekers have not had even the merest sniff of a job? Why does not the Government scrap crap schemes—[HON. MEMBERS: "Oh!"]—such as project work and provide real assistance to people who are out of work?
 The Minister for Science and Technology (Mr. Ian Taylor) : This has been a truly excellent use of these short debates. A cornucopia of information about the engineering industry came forth from my hon. Friend the Member for Mid-Staffordshire (Mr. Fabricant). I give him full credit for initiating the debate and giving us all the information, indeed for being a veritable polymath—an engineer who can correct his own gerunds. He is a great tribute to the House of Commons. 337 338 339
 Sir Ivan Lawrence  (Burton) : Is my hon. Friend the Minister aware that every reasonable person, hearing what she has said today about the processes by which we deal with the detained 1 per cent. of asylum seekers, will consider that this action is sadly necessary, decent, humane and totally beyond reproach?
 Sir Ivan Lawrence : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Would not any decent gentleman want to withdraw the very offensive personal remark that he made to my hon. Friend?
 Mr. James Couchman  (Gillingham) : Although Rochester prison is in the constituency of my hon. Friend the Member for Medway (Dame P. Fenner), a number of people are concerned, for humane reasons, about the circumstances in which people are detained in Rochester. Specifically, they are worried about the way in which the decision to detain is taken and the reviews that take place thereafter. They would like to know what those reviews are, how frequently they are carried out and by whom.
 Sir Jim Lester  (Broxtowe) : Does my hon. Friend acknowledge that there is a difference between the regime in Campsfield house and that in Rochester? What we really need is not prisons, but secure hostels to detain people who need detention. The Prison Service is very uncomfortable with that role and, if we are looking for additional places for people such as those being discussed, we would do better to build secure hostels than to keep them locked up in prison.
 Mr. Pawsey : Does my right hon. Friend agree that, although homework is important, what counts is what is taught and the methodology that is used in schools? Does she agree that we have shown leadership in education, but all the education reforms that we have introduced have been opposed by Opposition Members, both Labour and Liberal Democrat?
 Mr. Jeff Rooker  (Birmingham, Perry Barr) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I regret having to detain you and the House on a matter relating to an unanswered parliamentary question. During the Christmas recess—well before 8 January—I tabled a written question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer about the national debt, for answer on Monday 13 January when Parliament resumed. It was duly printed on the Order Paper as Question 595. On Tuesday 21 January, I telephoned the office of the Economic Secretary about the non-appearance of the answer and I was informed by an official:
 "The parliamentary question is currently with the Chief Secretary and should be answered within the next couple of days"
 Mr. Corbyn : Will the Minister explain why, if all immigration detainees are given statements in writing in their mother tongue, I received the following written answer from her colleague the Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department, the hon. Member for Leeds, North-East (Mr. Kirkhope), two days ago? It said:
 "This is done orally, in a language which the person understands, through an interpreter if necessary. The Government see no justification for providing written reasons."—[ Official Report, 1.
 Mr. Jeremy Corbyn  (Islington, North) : To ask what action has been taken by the Home Secretary concerning hunger strikers at HMP Rochester.
2.  Mr. Corbyn : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment what monitoring of the operation of the jobseeker's allowance that she is undertaking [11726]
 Mr. Corbyn : Will the Minister confirm that £10·7 million has already been spent on consultants to introduce the jobseeker's allowance? Can he tell us how much more is to be spent on consultancy fees in the future? From his monitoring of the operation of the jobseeker's allowance, can he tell us how many people have been denied all benefits as a result of failing jobseeker's allowance interviews? What monitoring is he undertaking of the low wages that many people are forced to accept for jobs that they are forced to take because of the draconian and inhuman way in which the jobseeker's allowance operates?
 Mr. Paice : I do not think that it takes a great deal of research to realise that the confiscation of more than £1,000 per family in respect of an offspring who is about to study for A-levels or enter post-16 education is bound to have a deterrent effect on the future of further education and the achievement of qualifications. It is confiscation—there is no other word for it. That is Labour's proposition, and it sits ill with the party's proposals to help young people to get into work.
 Mr. Paice : As I am sure the hon. Lady realises, no Minister can commit himself to supporting a bid that has not materialised. Obviously, I am interested in what she says, but she will appreciate that there are many competitive bids for single regeneration moneys. They are judged at regional level and on merit. Without further knowledge of the case, I cannot say more.
 Mr. Paice : The hon. Gentleman is entirely right. That is precisely the sort of arrangement that we envisage in part of the White Paper to which I have referred. Building links between individual businesses and their local schools enables young people to grow up and obtain the traditional academic skills from school while learning the essential skills that will equip them for work.
 Mr. Paice : I am afraid that I did not see the interview to which my hon. Friend refers—I try to avoid such nightmares—but I am not a bit surprised by the economic illiteracy that was apparently demonstrated. It is clear that many policies under the heading of European Union social policies, which the Government have resisted, but to which the Labour party is apparently committed, would destroy jobs and would cause youth unemployment to rise rather than continue to fall.
 Mr. Paice : I think that I detect a split coming on.
 Mr. Paice : It is interesting to note that the hon. Gentleman speaks of about 245,000 young people being out of work, whereas the hon. Member for Falkirk, West (Mr. Canavan) said that it was somehow a third of 1·8 million.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. James Paice) : Our White Paper, "Learning to Compete", the first ever on policies for the 14 to 19 age group, sets out a coherent approach to maximise the potential of young people and their readiness for work.
 Mr. Paice : The statistics with which the hon. Gentleman started his question are spurious. The proportion of young people who are unemployed is considerably lower than the figure that he gave. The figure that he and his colleagues continually quote includes a substantial number of full-time students who may be looking for a part-time job, but no one in any other country or in any walk of life other than that of a Labour politician would classify them as unemployed. Those are labour force survey statistics.
 Mr. Paice : Clearly, we want standards to go on rising in schools and, as my hon. Friend says, our policies are achieving that. As he knows, we have asked Sir Ron Dearing to undertake a full study into all aspects of the future of higher education and, clearly, its expansion is one of the points that he will address.
 Mr. Paice : According to the work force in employment series, since 1979 the proportion of men working part time has increased from 6 to 11 per cent. and of women from 40 to 46 per cent. The labour force survey, which is internationally recognised, shows lower figures, but it did not start until 1984.
 Mr. Paice : Survey after survey, including the labour force survey, demonstrates that about 87 per cent. of those in part-time work wish to be in part-time work. A very small percentage of those would rather have—
 Mr. Paice : My hon. Friend refers to the burdens that would be put on business by the Labour party's social policies. As I said earlier, such policies may have a good intention; I do not deny that. They have, however, a
 355
 Mr. Paice : This country has more people at work than any other major European country. Our unemployment has fallen by 900,000 since the peak and is continuing to fall. There have been 600,000 new jobs in the economy since the recovery began. Those are the facts. The Opposition are concerned about earnings. The only way in which people will have their earnings increased is if the businesses they work for improve their productivity and profitability, and are therefore able to employ more people at higher wages.
 Mr. Paice : The hon. Gentleman quoted the labour force survey as a source of fact, but he now questions my
 354
 Mr. Paice : I am sure that my hon. Friend agrees that increased taxes would have quite the opposite effect. Whatever the good intentions behind policies, they can often have a negative result. If one puts burdens on business, for whatever good reason, one will end up destroying jobs, and it is time that the Labour party recognised that.
 Mr. James Wallace  (Orkney and Shetland) : I shall speak to amendment No. 145, which is phrased in almost identical terms to that moved by the hon. Member for Dumbarton (Mr. McFall). I do not wish to detain the House long, because the hon. Member for Dumbarton made the pertinent points about the Government's proposed scheme for early release.
 Mr. Wallace : I should like to speak to the amendments standing in my name and those of my hon. Friends. This part of the Bill opens up some important issues concerning the relationship between the Scottish Legal Aid Board and the Law Society of Scotland, and the circumstances in which additional powers are being given to the Scottish Legal Aid Board without sufficient case having been made to justify the need for those powers. 429 "the manner in which a solicitor should conduct a case and represent his client, including … the passage of timeous and accurate information to the client … the frequency of meetings … the giving of advice to the client as to the consequences of any decision made … the taking of such precognitions as may be necessary … the conduct of relations with the prosecution." 430 "The power under this section to require production of information and documents includes power … to require any person, who is a present or past partner or employee of any such solicitor or firm and who appears to the Board or one of its officers to have any information or documents, to produce them". "wholly or partly to the provision of criminal legal assistance."
 Mr. Wallace : The Minister is, of course, right to say that a shrieval warrant will be necessary to obtain powers of entry to premises to investigate. The point that I was making concerned the fact that no prior
 433
 Sir John Hannam  (Exeter) : I am pleased to have this opportunity to raise an important issue of public health—the transplantation of kidneys and other organs, and the decline in the number of organ donors which is being experienced in the 1990s after a steady rise in the 1980s. Some 20 years ago, in the 1970s, there was a great deal of optimism about an abundance of kidneys for transplants—we just had to go out and get them. Some 20 years later, it is plain that such optimism was very wide of the mark. "a patient in Exeter could almost be guaranteed a transplant within 12 months." 316 "The current waiting list for kidney transplants in the UK at 31 December 1996 was 5,421; therefore, it is imperative every avenue is explored to ensure this waiting list is reduced. I was fortunate enough to receive a kidney transplant in 1991, which still functions well and will testify to the difference it makes—it really is the 'Gift of Life'—and the most cost effective method of dealing with end stage renal failure. 317 Elective ventilation was the subject of a discussion document published by the British Transplantation Society in September 1995 This paper outlines a recommended protocol and, amongst other recommendations, recommends the Government should introduce legislation to enable elective ventilation to be re-introduced as an avenue to organ donation by making specific exemptions from the requirement to treat for the patient's own benefit." "elective ventilation remains a potentially extremely valuable additional avenue to organ donation and, most importantly, it is a source of donors entirely distinct from and additional to the current pool of potential donors. Every single donor obtained by elective ventilation is a donor that could not possibly have been obtained by any initiative other than elective ventilation (or a massive increase in intensive care facilities). When" "says that there is no evidence that elective ventilation increases organ donation, it is clear that he does not understand this fundamental point." "The Department says that it will not contemplate changes in the law for elective ventilation while the medical profession is divided. This is a transparent cover for sitting on their hands. They know that the medical profession (and indeed any other group) will always be divided on any ethical issue. Abortion is a good example where differences of opinion (strongly held) do not preclude legislation on the basis of a broadly held consensus, with doctors and patients proceeding as their individual consciences dictate. Elective ventilation has the support of the BMA, the Royal College of Surgeons, the Royal College of Physicians, the Royal College of General Practitioners and several other august bodies. This hardly represents a divided profession. However, the Department has not taken a single constructive step or made any suggestions whatsoever as to how we might proceed on this issue. My feeling is that it does not matter how many influential medical organisations support elective ventilation. Fear of the vocal minority will keep the Government from acting." 318
 Mr. John Heppell  (Nottingham, East) : Is my hon. Friend aware of the stage that the crisis in the health service has now reached, at least in the Nottingham area? For nearly six months of the year, many of my constituents—along with those of my hon. Friend and other hon. Members who are present—have only an emergency service available. All routine operations are cancelled.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. John Horam) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend the Member for Exeter (Sir J. Hannam) for providing this opportunity to speak about organ transplantation—which is a wonder of modern medical science and has, as he said, truly been the gift of life for so many people. I appreciate his long interest in health and disability issues. In this debate, he spoke with his customary eloquence and feeling. 319 The Lancet. 320 321
 Mr. McAllion : This group of amendments deals with a new court order, which is called a hospital direction; it is sometimes referred to as a hybrid order. It gives the court new powers where offenders are found guilty of an offence that is punishable by imprisonment, but where the court judges that a prison term would not be insufficient to deal with such offenders. In addition to any prison sentence, the court is empowered to direct that the prisoners should be detained in hospital. "It is my understanding that originally this order was to apply only to psychopathic personalities." 408 "in Scotland, most such people"— "would not be admitted to hospital." "By definition psychopaths are said to be unable to learn by experience. Such a definition raises questions as to whether change can be effected by hospital treatment. Furthermore such individuals are extremely disruptive and destructive in a ward to the disadvantage of other patients." "A persistent disorder manifested only by abnormally seriously aggressive or irresponsible conduct", "makes it appropriate for him"— "to receive medical treatment in a hospital", "is likely to alleviate or prevent a deterioration in the patient's condition." "The mentally handicapped … have no place in a prison nor do those with mental illnesses such as schizophrenia or manic depressive illness." "the likely outcome would be hospital beds (which are relentlessly diminishing in numbers) would be blocked by patients ready for discharge but who have to mark time while the tariff"— 409
 Mr. McAllion : We are talking about young offenders who are guilty of serious offences. It turned out that, of the 171 young offenders who were before the courts in 1994, only 25 were given any kind of detention. Only a fraction of those 25 would qualify for an electronic tagging order. Is the Minister seriously suggesting that youngsters who commit serious crimes—the kind of youngsters who the hon. Member for Ayr says terrorise communities—should be put back into the very same communities and electronically tagged rather than disposed of in detention centres? I do not think that that makes any sense.
 Mr. John McAllion  (Dundee, East) : The issue in this debate is whether electronic tagging should be extended to people under 16 years of age. The speech of the hon. Member for Ayr (Mr. Gallie) showed that he does not understand the debate or the nature of the youngsters who are likely to come into contact with the new powers that will be given to the courts. My hon. Friend the Member
 380
 Mr. McAllion : My hon. Friend makes a pertinent point. The hon. Member for Ayr has said in the past that he would like a return to birching or flogging of offenders. Those in favour of birching argue that, once people have been birched, they will not come back for more, but the evidence shows that people were birched more than once. It is not the punishment that deters people from offending, but the circumstances that they live in. Their situations and the people they mix with encourage criminal behaviour. Offenders also tend to believe that they will not get caught, so they do not worry much about the punishment. It is time that Conservative Ministers and Back Benchers began to wake up to that fact. "In 1994, only 171 young offenders had a charge proved against them in court."—[ Official Report, 381
 Mr. McAllion : I am not an historian; I am an optimist. We may again see a socialist Government like the one that was in power from 1945 to 1951, although I suspect that that may be some way off. 301 302 "Our world has cold, damp homes which need new windows and new healing systems … Our world has health problems caused by cold damp homes … In our world we need public investment in public sector homes to improve health, to reduce benefit dependancy by putting people back to work, to raise educational standards. 303 Our world has politicians too stupid to see the need—are you one of them?"
 Mr. McAllion : That is a very good put-down; I accept it entirely. The right hon. Gentleman normally speaks very well.
 Mr. John McAllion  (Dundee, East) : I congratulate the right hon. Member for Dumfries (Sir H. Monro) on being conscious at 7 o'clock in the morning. That is a notable achievement for a man of his age, and wincing at my hon. Friend the Member for Fife, Central (Mr. McLeish) is even better.
 Mr. McFall : No, I am going to educate the hon. Gentleman, even if he does not want me to; he will have to sit there and listen. He said that the police had to be supported. Fife constabulary said:
 "The most likely reaction from many children would be to regard the need for tagging in their particular case as a 'badge of honour'. There is a danger that they would be viewed by their peers as role models." "The whole ethos of the current system is the fact that it is care based and by its very nature strives to place the child's needs as the first priority. The prospect of tagging children under the age of
 384 adult "The overwhelming view was very much against the concept. … for younger children. Tagging would hugely divert attention from the positive purposes of supervision. Far from being the solution to the problem, supervision becomes the problem itself." "At this time, we do not believe that electronic tagging would be appropriate to supervision requirements for young people under 16. We do not believe that electronic tagging would be a positive incentive to a child to demonstrate greater responsibility and self-control." "To punish children or to even restrict offending without considering the reasons which bring about this behaviour is a backward step and is not a long term solution for the child or the community … we do believe this is a suggestion which must have come from someone with little understanding of the Hearing System in Scotland."
 Mr. McFall : In Committee, we had a constructive debate, as the hon. Gentleman will agree, and there was no hint—nothing on the horizon—about tagging for under-16s. We saw through the exercise at the end of November: it was patent nonsense then, and it remains patent nonsense today. We have the support of 101 individuals and organisations, and the hon. Gentleman is isolated on the issue.
 Mr. McFall : That is a matter for the Minister. I was being charitable; we need an equal mix of charity and forensic ability. I am providing the charity and the hon. and learned Gentleman has shown the forensic ability. Let us hope that the Minister provides the eloquence; I fear that the third leg may disappoint us. "It is established beyond any possible peradventure throughout the world that tagging is of value in the field of criminal justice. Wherever those operating the criminal justice system want it to succeed, it succeeds." "Would electronic tagging be appropriate to supervision requirements for young people under 16?" 383 "I trust my comments, which do require expansion, are helpful."
 Mr. McFall : Is that so? Was that the whole story? Perhaps I blinked and missed it. If that is the whole story, the House and me country will say that electronic tagging, as advocated by the hon. Gentleman, is unacceptable. He goes on about how we should support the police; he will no doubt say that Scotland is voting against tagging for under-16s whereas England and Wales voted for it. The reason, as he well knows, is that we have a unique justice system in Scotland, with children's hearings, and it is the envy of the world, including England and Wales.
 Mr. McFall : Many fine points in the debate have shown the hollowness of the Government's proposal for electronic tagging for under-16s. 382 "In Scotland, the Government is now consulting on whether electronic monitoring should be made available to children's hearings in considering compulsory measures of supervision for children under 16 referred to them on offence grounds."
 Mr. John McFall  (Dumbarton) : Does the hon. and learned Gentleman realise that the consultation exercise drew 102 responses, four of which were from police forces? One hundred and one out of the 102 responses were against. There was one response for, and I will keep the House in suspense as to who that one was from.
 Mr. McFall : The hon. Gentleman specifically states that the measure will be useful for children's hearings, but amendment No. 245 excludes children's hearings. That completely destroys his case.
 Mr. McFall : I commend the hon. Member for Perth and Kinross (Ms Cunningham) for introducing amendment No. 221, which we support. The Minister has been in correspondence with me about amendment No. 151—notably in a letter dated 30 December—because we raised certain matters in Committee. We are concerned about the offender. We would like the Bill to take into consideration where the offender lives and whether he intends to move during the currency of the order; if he works, attends school or another educational establishment; if he owns or rents accommodation; and, lastly, if his religion or beliefs require him to be present at a defined location for a specific period. "The requirements in a curfew order shall … avoid
 
 (a) any conflict with the offender's religious beliefs or with the requirements of any other community order … and (b) any interference with the times … he normally works or attends school".
 Mr. McFall : The Scottish Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders, among other bodies, was very concerned about the Government's approach, and believed that good behaviour should be the minimum standard required of all prisoners. The absence of misconduct reports considered and proved at a disciplinary hearing should be all that can be reasonably expected from most prisoners. "positive good behaviour and that they are making constructive use of their time in prison to address their offending behaviour. As appropriate, that might mean participating in a programme on drug addiction or anger management, as well as working productively in the prison workshops."—[ Official Report, First Scottish Standing Committee, 419 "assessments will not be made on the whim of one individual officer. We envisage that the governor or another senior manager will convene an assessment board to consider carefully reports from relevant staff on each prisoner, according to a range of criteria which would be set out in prison rules."—[ Official Report, First Scottish Standing Committee, 420
 Mr. McFall : I thank the Minister for saying that the amendment was tabled to address my proposals in Committee. Under the current arrangements, a prisoner sentenced to 12 weeks could be released before a prisoner who had been sentenced to 10 weeks. Therefore, a judge could sentence someone to 10 weeks in prison and the prisoner could say, "Give me 12 weeks as I will be out sooner." That was absurd. However, I have news for the Minister: the amendment fails to rectify the position completely. "I agree we should avoid any possibility of a situation where an offender sentenced to a period above the threshold can, by earning early release, reduce his sentence below that of a person who falls just below the threshold and who is therefore not eligible for early release. I aim to table amendments to achieve this on report." 423
 Mr. McFall : We debated amendment No. 142 in Committee and the Minister said that he would consider it. However, there are still glaring deficiencies in the measure. We have been contacted by the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, Edinburgh Healthcare NHS trust, the consultant forensic psychiatrist, Derrick Chiswick, and by the Royal College of Psychiatrists. The comments by those people have to be taken seriously by the Minister. "hospital direction would not apply to people with a mental illness or a mental handicap. It would only apply to those where the mental disorder is a persistent one manifested by abnormally aggressive or serious irresponsible conduct which is a near equivalent of the English Mental Health Act category of psychopathic disorder." "I am aware that the working of the law in relation to mentally disordered offenders is something of an arcane affair but I do urge you most strongly to try and prevent the passage of Clause 5 in its current form. It will do no good but may do much harm." "While the Scottish Office expects that only a dozen or so such Hospital Directions would be made in the course of any one year, it is clear that there will be cumulative effects which will have major implications for the number of beds required in conditions of security for mentally disordered offenders. In particular, there will be a need for many more beds in the State Hospital, where such patients are likely to be treated, and if it is considered that return to prison would lead to a relapse in their mental condition. Length of stay in hospital will be directed by the length of sentence rather than by clinical need or public safety issues." "To avoid the risk of a Hospital Direction being imposed, psychiatrists may be reluctant to recommend a conventional Hospital Order resulting in more mentally ill people in the prison system." 411 "There may well be an increased risk to the public. Patients under Hospital Directions will not benefit from the indefinite follow-up which is provided by the current legislation relating to Restriction Orders." "If the new Hospital Direction is to be introduced in Scotland then the Ministers should be urged to restrict it to those patients who would fall within the definition of Psychopathic Disorder in the English Mental Health Act." "While there is no exact category of Psychopathic Disorder in Scotland, it exists in terms of Section 17(1)(a)(i) in those cases where the 'mental disorder from which he suffers is a persistent one manifested only by abnormally aggressive or seriously irresponsible conduct, such treatment is likely to alleviate or prevent a deterioration of his condition'."
 Mr. McFall : I beg to move amendment No. 132, in page 28, leave out lines 6 and 7 and insert
 '"prescribed minimum standard" means an absence of proved misconduct reports'.
 Mr. McFall : I beg to move amendment No. 140, in page 57, line 42, after 'shall', insert
 'where there is no byelaw in force prohibiting the public consumption of alcohol'.
 Mr. McFall : A similar amendment was debated in Committee. The clause allows a police officer to take liquor from an under-18-year-old and to take that individual's name and address; and to take liquor from over-18s if the officer believes that they are supplying under-18s with liquor. A new crime is created, of failing to comply with a police officer's request to surrender the
 437
 Mr. McFall : I shall be brief, because clauses 45 to 49 were well covered in Committee. "Everyone charged with a criminal offence has the following minimum rights … (c) to defend himself in person or through legal assistance of his own choosing or, if he has not sufficient means to pay for legal assistance to be given it free when the interest of justices could be in breach of the European Convention."
 Mr. Eastham : Is the Minister aware that, only a few months ago, I brought a deputation from the city of Manchester to see one of her colleagues? We pointed out that the city had been starved of funds for building maintenance and that a £50 million deficiency had built up. Roofs are letting rain in, the electrics are deficient, new boilers are required and children have been evacuated from schools by bus because of the conditions. Will not that affect the morale of teachers and schoolchildren? It is happening up and down the country.
 Mr. Llew Smith  (Blaenau Gwent) : In the context of renegotiation, would the hon. Gentleman care to look at article 107 of the treaty? That makes it plain that virtually all the major economic decisions will be in the hands of an unelected and unaccountable European central bank. Astonishingly, that article makes it plain that it will be illegal for democratically elected Parliaments or Governments to influence that unelected European central bank. If we allow that to happen or if the matter is not renegotiated, at the general election, those who are elected
 275
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : The Minister mentioned the pilot scheme. Does he understand why so many Opposition Members find it extraordinary that, having established the pilot scheme, the Government propose to introduce legislation without waiting until they have had the opportunity to evaluate the results? It is like delivering the verdict before the jury has heard the evidence.
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : Perhaps the fault is mine. I suspect that it is a problem of expression rather than comprehension. When we introduce such a radically different measure, and invest sheriffs with a discretion in that respect, we have a duty to lay down the criteria that they are entitled, but not bound, to take into account.
 Mr. Campbell : The hon. Gentleman states the present position, but I am not sure of the point that he is trying to make. My point was that the police are clear that they do not want anything to do with the administration of these proposals. Coupled with the other aspects of the letter to which I have referred, that is a clear thumbs down from the Association of Chief Police Officers (Scotland).
 Mr. Campbell : The hon. Lady has a particular interest in children's issues and makes effective and worthwhile contributions to many of our debates on such subjects. Her intervention underlines the fact that what we are discussing today is a gimmick to be introduced into the penal system not because we know it to be worth while—we have not had the evaluation of the pilot study—or because it has been proved universally effective elsewhere, but because the Government believe that it might attract a headline here or there. "friction between members of the family when one was undergoing electronic monitoring may be a potentially serious consequence of the system."
 Mr. Campbell : I suppose that one might say that if 101 responses were against, that was probably 101 damnations. "If a child merits lagging then, generally speaking, he or she is unlikely to view it as an incentive to better behaviour. Indeed, it is more likely to be regarded by some 'harder' children as an achievement … The ultimate responsibility for the management and administration of electronic monitoring would or should fall squarely on the shoulders of the local authority and not the police where children are concerned."
 Mr. Campbell : That may well be so for those over 16, although we do not normally expect those under 16 to be in factories, where such issues might arise. However, I accept the hon. Gentleman's general point that someone carrying such a tag might be at risk when performing some activities because of the presence of the tag.
 Mr. Menzies Campbell  (Fife, North-East) : The hon. Member for Paisley, North (Mrs. Adams) has made a most compelling case against the proposals. She was particularly right to say that the Bill provides absolutely no guidance to the judiciary generally and to sheriffs particularly on the criteria that should be employed when electronic tagging is applied to those over 16 or to those under 16. One could argue very strongly that the Government's decision to extend the proposal, by tabling Amendment No. 245, places a far more acute obligation on them to prescribe the criteria by which this form of penal disposal should be used. 376 The Herald "The prospect of tagging children under the age of 16 tends to lead away from this general philosophy". "An electronic tagging device could be a backward step as such tagging would be viewed as a form of additional punishment and stand as a marker on the child, the likely consequence of which would be to expose the child to ridicule. The more hardened offenders would probably regard the tag as a trophy." 377
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : When the hon. Gentleman got that letter, did it occur to him to speculate on how Sir Neil MacFarlane had such information, especially relating to children's hearings, which had not up to that point been in the public domain?
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : Where is the Secretary of State?
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : I detect impatience in the House about the progress of this Bill. Those who find the fact that we are detaining them irksome should reflect on the following: many of us need not be here discussing the domestic affairs of Scotland, and if they would only grant us devolved powers to a Parliament in Edinburgh, they could dine much earlier and we might fashion a better piece of legislation. 451 452
 Mr. Connarty : I did not make a speech earlier, but only an intervention, because I had been on the Committee and I knew that my hon. Friend the Member for Dumbarton (Mr. McFall) could handle any points well. [Interruption.] 445 446 447
 Mr. Michael Connarty  (Falkirk, East) : I do not know whether my hon. Friend has visited his local constabulary headquarters, as I have, and asked to see the old birching book in which are recorded the names of those who had been birched. The same names appeared again and again. Those people came from a deprived background and could not break out of criminal behaviour. They were frequently flogged, but there was no improvement in their behaviour.
 Mr. Connarty : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Michael Connarty  (Falkirk, East) : Thank you for calling me, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I congratulate the hon. Member for Perth and Kinross (Ms Cunningham) on securing this debate on an important subject that must be discussed. It is not just a party matter; it is not the domain of just one Opposition party. It concerns everyone, and the Government are not doing enough. There have been too many partisan comments today. 311
 Mr. Michael Connarty  (Falkirk, East) : Although on 18 December we discussed the new stations and, for example, Salsburgh in the uplands of Lanarkshire was supposed to be substituted for Turnhouse, I checked with the research department of the Library this morning and found that Turnhouse was still used for the calculation of the January payments. Does the hon. Lady realise that my constituents and others in central Scotland may have been denied payments as a result of that?
 Mr. Michael Fabricant  (Mid-Staffordshire) : I wish to discuss the Year of Engineering Success, which was launched by my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade last Wednesday, and also to propose two changes in legislation that would encourage more students to become engineers. Before I begin, I wish to thank my constituent, John Evans of Lichfield, and Steve Potter, of the House of Commons Library, for their research, some of which I will be using today.
 Mr. Fabricant : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. Indeed, I recall attending that very opening ceremony in the other place last year. I shall be touching very shortly on the question of education, especially for those entering university. I support everything that he has said. 332 "The UK produces some of the best engineers in the world but many firms, especially small and medium ones, are complaining they cannot recruit the right kind of engineer." 333 [Interruption.] 334 Civil Engineers and Architects Journal 335 "It is for the Government to create the right background conditions, but it is you engineers who can grasp the opportunities and make our future prosperous and I am here today for one reason: to show the importance this Government attaches to your work, your profession and your role in our future. Our country's success needs you." "It is for the Government". "saw no major reason for maintaining the system of registration for architects alone", "a much wider issue of statutory registration of all professional members of the construction industry". "You know my view that engineers and engineering are exceptionally important but their full potential is not being realised in certain key respects. A number of steps are needed to remedy this, including: fundamental reform of the selection, education, training and use of engineers and technicians." "to ensure that the importance of engineering to the British economy, as recognised in the Science and Technology White Paper, is properly reflected in Government policies". 336 "the UK should retain its Social Chapter opt-out because labour market restrictions should be reduced, and not increased. The best way to provide improved employment conditions is through enhanced international competitiveness, rather than legislation." "national rather than EU legislation". "The EEF does not support the introduction of a National Minimum Wage since it would indirectly reduce the competitiveness of the engineering industry by increasing the costs of many contracted-out services. It would also have an inflationary impact upon pay structures as it would inevitably result in pressures to maintain existing pay differentials. Furthermore, any regular increase in a National Minimum Wage will open the real possibility that, during pay negotiations, this will be regarded by employees and their representatives as the minimum acceptable increase, irrespective of their employer's economic and financial circumstances and labour market conditions."
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. We now move to the debate on elective ventilation for kidney transplants.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The hon. Gentleman knows quite well that that is not a point of order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : Order. I remind the hon. Member for Linlithgow and any other hon. Member who spoke on the amendment on Monday that they may not speak twice to the same amendment.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss the following amendments: No. 151, in page 7, line 2, after 'shall', insert
 'ascertain from the offender
 
 (i) where he lives and if he intends to move during the currency of the order; (ii) if he works, attends school or other educational establishment; (iii) if he owns or rents his accommodation; and (iv) if his religion or beliefs require him to be present at a defined location for a specified period of time and.'.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss the following amendments: Government amendments Nos. 23, 24, 254 and 25.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : Order The debate is about cold weather payments, not the redistribution of wealth.
 Mr. Stephen : Is it not the case that the Government provide more money per pupil than ever before in the nation's history, and that the reason why results are not as good as they should be is half-baked 1960s teaching methods, which still find favour with so many left-wing authorities, and waste of taxpayers' money by those very authorities?
 Mr. Michael Stephen  (Shoreham) : Does my hon. Friend recall that, when Labour was last in power, the police were undermanned and underpaid, and so demoralised that officers were leaving in droves?
 Mr. Stephen : On the subject of questions that have not been answered, surely the point put to the hon. Gentleman by my hon. Friend the Member for South Dorset (Mr. Bruce) is right: the hon. Gentleman cannot stand at the Dispatch Box and say that more central Government money must be devoted to the police, but refuse to commit his party to putting any more central Government money in.
 Mr. Stephen : Surely the hon. Gentleman accepts that the distinction he is attempting to draw between council tax payers and income tax payers is artificial. Council tax payers and income tax payers are substantially the very same people.
 Mr. Stephen : Does my hon. Friend accept that her statement shows the Government's firm commitment to the policing of this country? Does she share my perhaps unrealistic hope that the broadcast media will report her statement fairly, and will not do what they did last time, which was to seek out the police authority with the smallest increase and mislead the public into thinking that that was the general situation?
 Mr. Mike Gapes  (Ilford, South) : I beg to move,
 That leave be given to bring in a Bill to make it a criminal offence to claim, whether in writing or orally, that the policy of genocide against the Jewish people committed by Nazi Germany did not occur. 371 372
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton : I thank my hon. Friend for modestly extending the consultation period. May I make a plea to her for it to be extended still further, to enable meaningful discussions to go on between the Government and all the teacher unions involved, particularly the National Association of Head Teachers, which undertook a constructive and positive lobby of Parliament last week? Does my hon. Friend accept that, if she can get Treasury permission, it would be more appropriate for the new arrangements to take effect from the new academic year in September rather than from 1 April?
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : Is not the hon. Gentleman emphasising the case of those whom he describes as Euro-sceptics? Every example of qualified majority voting that he has cited has been in relation to trade. Conservative Euro-sceptics are in favour of a proper and full trade arrangement with Europe, but do not want it to trespass into matters that we consider to be of sovereign and constitutional importance to Britain.
 Mr. Hawkins : Will my hon. Friend confirm that youth unemployment in Britain is one of the lowest in the
 351
 Mr. Forman : I welcome the good sense of seeking to concentrate our university research in a smaller number of centres of excellence, for the reasons that my right hon. Friend has stated, but I wonder whether the process could be advanced with slightly less paperwork than is currently required. Some of the frequent complaints from universities are along those lines.
 Mr. Paddy Tipping  (Sherwood) : Will my hon. Friend confirm that the east midlands receives only 0·68 per cent of funds for millennium projects? There are adventurous projects, such as the landmark projects that will do up miners' welfares, the project to recreate the Sherwood forest and the project to get the Grantham canal back into operation. There are good, prestigious projects that will bring new investment and new life to the east midlands. We should ask for an undertaking that those projects will take place to bring a new future in the 21st century.
 Mr. Tipping : On a point of order. Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Tipping : The Minister mentioned the Under-Secretary of State for Social Security. Did the Minister give his hon. Friend notice that he would mention him? I draw to your attention the fact that there is not one Tory Member from the east midlands in the—
 Mr. Tipping : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Tipping : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Nicholls : Does my hon. Friend agree that that is only part of the wider issue of teacher morale? Has she shared my experience that many teachers in the state sector believe genuinely, albeit wrongly, that the Government do not value their work? Will my hon. Friend take this opportunity to say that her experience is the same as mine—that teachers in the maintained sector in my constituency are overwhelmingly first-rate professionals doing a first-rate job?
 Mr. Patrick Nicholls  (Teignbridge) : Time is short, but that shows how quickly time passes when we are enjoying ourselves. I thoroughly enjoyed the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Stafford (Mr. Cash). As he said so much that I would have said, I shall be brief.
 Mr. Nicholls : I am sorry, but I have very little time. "There are some in this country who fear that in going into Europe, we shall in some way sacrifice independence and sovereignty … These fears, I need hardly say, are completely unjustified". 286
 Mr. Patrick Nicholls  (Teignbridge) : My hon. Friend has been generous in giving way. Does he agree that one of the most sinister aspects of the matter is that those who are not even prepared to contemplate renegotiation are effectively saying that all the facts that my hon. Friend describes are so acceptable that one should not even contemplate renegotiation? What resonance does that have in the country at large?
 Mr. Patrick Thompson : In connection with education funding in Cheshire, some of us are becoming tired of the continual argument between local authorities and Government about education spending—I certainly am. Does my hon. Friend accept that some hon. Members still believe that education funding should be taken out of local government altogether?
 Mr. Peter Brooke  (City of London and Westminster, South) : Is my hon. Friend aware that two separate and responsible witnesses gave presentations last week to the all-party parliamentary group on refugees and that that caused no little concern to those of us who heard the evidence of those witnesses, one of whom concentrated on the psychological health of detainees? Although I have absolute confidence in her conduct when managing this situation, would she or the Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department, my hon. Friend the Member for Leeds, North-East (Mr. Kirkhope), who is also sitting on the Treasury Bench, be prepared to meet hon. Members to discuss the underlying issues?
 Mr. Butler : Will my hon. Friend acknowledge the superb work of the Open university, of which you, Madam Speaker, have the honour to be chancellor and which is in my constituency. It is currently rated 10th out of more than 100 such institutions in terms of its research work, in addition to producing by a multiple factor the largest number of top-quality graduates of any university in the kingdom.
 Mr. Butler : Indeed, Madam Speaker, it has also just won the Queen's award.
 Mr. Hain : Why do the Government not come clean about the fact that there has been a huge shift from well-paid, full-time jobs to badly paid, part-time jobs, and that that has hit total earnings? Combining full-time and part-time work, as the Library has done for me for the first time, one sees that, over the past three years, real median earnings have fallen by more than 1 per cent. If that is a Tory recovery, thank goodness we do not have a recession. We have high taxes, low wages and job insecurity. This is a Del Boy Tory recovery.
 Mr. Kilfoyle : May we now put to the Minister the questions that we asked in Committee, in the hope that perhaps today she will answer the most relevant one? Will she confirm that the Government have done a deal with local authorities to enable them to claw back the costs of early retirement from individual schools? Will she also confirm that on 18 December last the Funding Agency for Schools wrote to grant-maintained schools offering quite a generous settlement of 100 per cent. of retirement costs? Will she further confirm that the Government have a twin-track approach—one that is preferential to the grant-maintained sector and another for the rest of the teaching profession who are members of the teachers' superannuation scheme?
1.  Mr. Thurnham : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment what recent representations she has received about the employment of disabled people; and if she will make a statement. [11724]
 Mr. Thurnham : Is the Minister aware of the excellent work done by the Shaw trust, which has placed more than 2,000 people with disabilities in jobs at a cost of some £4,000 per job? Is she aware that the factory jobs at Remploy now cost three times as much? Does she not think that the subsidy of nearly £100 million to Remploy, if it were used as effectively as the Shaw trust uses its funds, could provide an additional 10,000 jobs for people with disabilities?
 Mr. Phil Gallie  (Ayr) : Where does the hon. Lady gel that interpretation from? It seems that a young offender from any background could be submitted to this recourse.
 Mr. Phil Gallie  (Ayr) : I recognise the sensitivity of the issue. My hon. Friend said that medicine, food and liquids were available to the prisoners. There is a fine line between suicide, euthanasia and taking one's own life by depriving oneself of food. Has my hon. Friend given the matter thought? Is there any point at which the Government would step in to save a life?
 Mr. Gallie : I should like to make a quick contribution, picking up on some of the points made by the hon. Members for Dumbarton (Mr. McFall) and for Orkney and Shetland (Mr. Wallace). I accept some of their points, but do they honestly believe it right that someone who is sentenced to four years should be released automatically halfway through that sentence? The Bill addresses that and I believe that people in Scotland will warmly welcome it.
 Mr. Gallie : I certainly welcome that legislation. I am quite sure that the Government pushed it along and that it was a case of Scotland first and others following. It was good legislation. 379
 Mr. Gallie : I compliment the hon. Gentleman on his research. How many Scottish Labour Members took the time and trouble even to write a three-letter word on the consultation document?
 Mr. Gallie : Has the hon. Gentleman lost his sense of hearing? I gave a response here tonight.
 Mr. Gallie : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Gallie : The hon. and learned Gentleman criticised the proposals partly because the local authorities, rather than the police, would supervise the young people. Would he like to comment on the fact that the local authority has overall responsibility for those sentenced to community service, which is the present equivalent of probationary service?
 Mr. Gallie : I shall be fairly brief. The hon. Member for Paisley, North (Mrs. Adams) who stated, "We got over the problems of alcohol abuse and hooliganism at football matches." The Government certainly did that by introducing legislation during the 1980s. I was not in the House at the time, but I suspect that Opposition Members opposed those changes. [HON. MEMBERS: "No."] That surprises me. It must have been the one and only law and order measure that they did not oppose.
 Mr. Gallie : I am quite sure that the Bill does that. From my understanding of it, and perhaps beyond the comprehension of the hon. and learned Gentleman who made such an insulting comment, the Bill contains an element of choice in that individuals will be able to choose whether or not to wear a monitoring device. As far as I am aware, it is an alternative to custody.
 Mr. Gallie : It does not, because children's panels have the power to pass on cases involving young offenders to the courts. The provision could well be in their minds when they do so. It is a decision for the panels, but they are not dealing with the problems on our streets as effectively as I would like.
 Mr. Gallie : On a point of order, Madam Deputy Speaker. In the previous debate, I referred to the Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 1980, which banned alcohol at sports grounds and on coaches in Scotland. At the time, I was howled down and told that the measure was introduced by a Labour Member before the Conservatives took office. That is not true: the measure was introduced by this Government and Opposition Members voted against it.
 Mr. Gallie : Has my right hon. and learned Friend any guidance on why Opposition Members are taking this line? I hear repeatedly of their dismay that people are sent to prison for not paying fines. A fine of £2,500 would be well beyond the means of the majority of people who would be affected by the clause, and it would be nonsense unless they were sent to prison for non-payment.
6.  Mr. Atkins : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment what recent representations she has received from Lancashire county council about education funding. [11731]
 Mr. Atkins : Is it the case that Lancashire county council received a 3·8 per cent. increase this year on top of a 5·5 per cent. increase last year and earlier increases, largely as a result of pressure from the county's
 348
10.  Mr. Corbett : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment if she will make a statement on the change in the proportion of (a) men and (b) women at work who were employed on a part-time basis between (i) 1979 and 1990 and (ii) 1990 and 1996. [11735]
 Mr. Corbett : The Minister is wrong.
 Mr. Corbett : Does not the near-doubling of the number of men working part time and often on short-term contracts explain the growing feeling of insecurity among millions of people outside these walls? Will the Minister confirm that 84 out of 100 men returning to work enter part-time rather than full-time jobs, and, while he is at it, will he examine the labour force survey and confirm that it shows—despite the Government's claims to the contrary—that unemployment among women is rising? We are given fiddled figures from a Government whom no one can trust.
 Mr. Squire : My hon. Friend is completely right about the highest-ever sums being spent on education. On standards, whether we are considering examination results or unauthorised absences from school, time and again Labour-controlled authorities are at the bottom of every table. Far from providing an answer on how to raise standards in our schools, Labour demonstrates by its actions that it has no idea what standards in school really mean.
 Mr. Squire : The hon. Gentleman repeats Labour's pledge—some would call it vandalism—to abolish assisted places. However, he has not repeated the fact that, in the first year, abolition of the scheme would save under £5 million. As he knows—because it has been reiterated by Labour spokesmen—that £5 million is somehow supposed to produce class sizes of no more than 30, whereas the minimum cost of doing so would be between £150 million and £180 million. It does not add up, and it is a deceit on parents across the country.
 Mr. Squire : My right hon. Friend is right in every respect. I congratulate him and my hon. Friends in Lancashire on the representations that they have made to the Government on education funding. He is also right to point out that, in the past two years alone, Lancashire has received increases of some £45 million in its education standard spending assessment. It is now up to the council, given its total resources, to determine its priorities. I hope that, like the Government, it will put education first.
 Mr. Squire : I certainly will not confirm the hon. Gentleman's figures without notice, but if he wants confirmation from me, he need only table an appropriate written question. As for the wider issue, he clearly overlooks the fact that, throughout the period that he mentioned, and for many years before that, the county council has been responsible for determining its priorities. Nothing in the sums given by the Government requires it to make the cuts in primary expenditure to which the hon. Gentleman referred.
 Mr. Robin Squire : Cheshire's provisional standard spending assessment per primary school pupil in 1997–98 is £1,976. That is £73 per pupil, or 3·8 per cent. more than this year. Now it is up to the authority to ensure that the increase in spending power that we are providing reaches the schools.
 Mr. Squire : I congratulate Cheshire local education authority, under its Conservative chairmanship, on giving education higher priority. As for the review of the area cost adjustment, my hon. Friend will be aware that we decided not to implement the recommendations in 1997–1998 essentially because more work needs to be done on the review team's findings. My hon. Friend is also aware—she referred to it in her question—that, when we consulted the four local authority associations, not one of them wanted the review to be implemented in the coming year.
 Mr. Squire : I note my hon. Friend's suggestion. It would clearly reduce the number of questions that I have to answer, so I can see an advantage there.
 Mr. Squire : On the contrary—to cite, in particular, the policy to which the hon. Lady adverted, far from damaging education in Cheshire, the nursery voucher scheme gives Cheshire and every local education authority an opportunity to enhance current pre-school provision. In the hon. Lady's constituency, more vouchers will shortly be going out than there are currently places for four-year-olds. That will provide an opportunity for her local education authority, along with all the others, to play a part in the expansion.
 Mr. Squire : My hon. Friend, who has been a Member of Parliament for many years, well remembers events under that Labour Government, and he is absolutely right. One can reach only one conclusion if one compares the Government's dedication to funding education and commitment to higher standards with our predecessor's: do not trust another Labour Government.
 Mr. Robin Squire : In 1994–95, the latest year for which data are available, Staffordshire spent £1,645 per pre-primary and primary pupil, in 1996–97 prices. In 1978–79, the equivalent figure was £1,240.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. Robin Squire) : Lancashire county council has recently made a number of representations to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State about education funding. I met representatives of Lancashire county council's education committee on 20 November last year to discuss funding for education in Lancashire.
 Mr. Evans : Hon. Members have repeatedly mentioned wind chill and it is important to explain that we are studying that matter. Officials will ensure that the necessary inquiries are made in time for the matter to be properly assessed by next autumn, when the orders have to be laid.
 Mr. Evans : May I make a little progress before giving way? Let me pursue the matter.
 Mr. Evans : I am obliged. 312
 Mr. Evans : Let me continue, please. 314 "for much of the country the additional domestic heating requirements generated as a result of the effects of exposure of houses to wind are too small and too highly variable" [Interruption.]
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Social Security (Mr. Roger Evans) : I have only a short time in which to reply to this full and detailed debate. During the three minutes in which I was able to speak on Friday, I did not have time to deal with the Cold Weather Payments (Wind Chill Factor) Bill, which has featured in today's discussion.
 Mr. Evans : The hon. Gentleman was not listening. I said that it is not possible to correlate this in the simplistic fashion in which that has been done by certain hon. Members. For example, there is no doubt that cold climate has an impact on winter mortality—no one challenges that for a moment—but waiting at a bus stop on an icy day is likely to have more effect than many other factors, and obviously there also is the incidence of disease and such matters. It is a matter of concern, but it is being studied and there is no consensus on it.
 Mr. Evans : No. I am going to move on, because I have noted well over two dozen points, which I want to answer quickly in the time left to me. 313
 Mr. Evans : My hon. Friend makes important points, with which I respectfully agree.
 Mr. Evans : They will be under way to the extent that they will be complete by the time it is necessary to make a decision next summer.
 Mr. Evans : It is a matter of modelling existing data: it is not a question of opening six weather stations to perform an experiment.
 Mr. Evans : The hon. Gentleman is blathering. We have said yes. He should be aware of the fact that the annual review will lead to statutory instruments being laid by the time the autumn scheme comes into effect. The process of examining this problem will be complete by
 307
 Mr. Evans   rose
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Social Security (Mr. Roger Evans) : It is utterly baffling that the hon. Gentleman should make that comment. Before Christmas, I made it clear to the Standing Committee of which we are both members that the Government will continue the annual review, investigate the wind chill factor and conduct the trials mentioned in the report. The cost is rather more than the mere £600 for the data, but the Government have promised to examine the matter this summer as part of the ordinary annual review. That has been our position for some time.
 Mr. Burns : If the hon. Gentleman will bear with me, I hope to address later in my speech the question of the number of neurologists and what is being done to increase it to provide greater care for people suffering from neurological diseases. "The NHS should be leading the way in changing public attitudes towards disabled people." 329 330
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Simon Burns) : I thank the hon. Member for Stratford-on-Avon (Mr. Howarth) for raising this important subject. I was particularly interested to hear the valid and important points he raised, although I suspect that he would not expect me to accept his interpretation or analysis of certain issues. 328 "the NHS and its partners should give increasing priority both to the prevention of physical and sensory disability, and to the problems associated with disability where it has been diagnosed. At the point of diagnosis people should be informed honestly, sensitively and fully of the nature and consequences of the disease and given access immediately to counselling, advice and support."
 Mr. Randall : Did not the heads of state refer in that preamble to the ever closer union of their peoples?
 Mr. Randall : Is the hon. Gentleman aware that such talk is certainly not reflected in the opinion polls? The Gallup poll in  The Daily Telegraph
 Mr. Stuart Randall  (Kingston upon Hull, West) : But the Single European Act went way beyond trade. It was about co-operation as well as trade.
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : The hon. Gentleman makes a great virtue of the fact that he voted against Maastricht 47 times. What, then, possessed him to vote for the Single European Act?
 Mr. Dalyell : The hon. Gentleman uses the words "in reality". May I ask whether in reality the hon. Gentleman would be satisfied with anything less than our country leaving the Community?
 Mr. Dalyell : I had better say that my question is based on the point of view that we should enter into the single currency at the first possible opportunity. Having been candid about that, may I ask the hon. Gentleman to be candid on another matter? How would he and his friends react if the Foreign Secretary of Germany or of France came to London, Stafford, Edinburgh or wherever, giving lectures on what we should do? What on earth would he say? What does he think that the Germans, the French and the Italians will say when our Foreign Secretary goes round Europe lecturing them on what to do?
 Mr. Dalyell : How would the Minister feel if Klaus Kinkel went around Britain lecturing us?
 Mr. Dalyell : On a point of order, Madam Deputy Speaker. As one who is not on your list to speak, may I point out that the hon. Gentleman who opened the debate has now been going on for five minutes more than half the time available—for 45 minutes? Was it the purpose of these Wednesday morning debates, which were meant to be a substitute for short Adjournment debates, that the hon. Member opening the debate should take more than half the time available?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow)   rose
 Mr. Dalyell : The Minister was asked by my hon. Friend the Member for Paisley, North and by me about safety. My hon. Friend referred to safety in supermarkets. I should like to ask about safety in swimming pools. I presume that the equipment is transistorised. It might easily be taken into a swimming pool. If someone drops a transistor into their bath, they are electrocuted. There are practical considerations.
 Mr. Dalyell : Should we not remember that we had better be a bit careful about biblical references? Did not the Bible say something about charity? Will the Minister consult some of her distinguished and senior colleagues and find out whether they have a conscience as to what the shade of their grandfathers has to say?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : In view of the Minister's rude and uncalled-for response to the hon. Member for Christchurch (Mrs. Maddock)—
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. In your considered statement yesterday at column 153–54, you expressed the hope that the investigation would be completed
 "at the earliest possible moment."—[ Official Report,
 Mr. Tim Rathbone  (Lewes) : As I am sure my hon. Friend knows, a launch of the Year of Engineering Success in Parliament in December—sponsored by the all-party engineering development group—made two points, on which I am sure he will touch. One is that every year should be a year of engineering success, and the second is that this year provides a chance to draw attention to the career opportunities of engineering and the requirement for better school education in mathematics and physics, and better further education to take advantage of those opportunities.
 Mr. Tony Banks  (Newham, North-West) : Could the Minister tell us a little more about the way in which the authorities treat hunger strikers? What counselling is available to them to try to get them off hunger strike? What access is made available to their family and friends, so that they may try to dissuade them from the action?
 Mr. Tony Benn  (Chesterfield) : Is the Minister aware that, to independent observers of this exchange, the Government's response will seem bureaucratic, inhumane and harsh? People will remember the totally different and more generous approach taken when people escaped from Tsarist Russia and the pogroms and when people came in the 1930s from Germany. Many hon. Members are descended from those who were given admission. Particularly in view of the Prime Minister's recent boast in India that he was the friend of the ethnic communities, the Minister's answer will sound singularly unconvincing.
3.  Mr. Sweeney : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment what recent representations she has received regarding arrangements for children's homework. [11727]
 Mr. Sweeney : Does my right hon. Friend agree that it—heaven forbid—we end up with a Labour Government and a Welsh Assembly, we would be placed in a ludicrous situation in which Members of Parliament from Wales will be able to vote in Westminster on issues such as homework while Members of Parliament in England will have no say on education matters in Wales? Does my right hon. Friend agree that that would be a ludicrous result and gives every indication of why we need to reject the concept of a Welsh Assembly and of a Labour Government?
 Mr. Walter Sweeney  (Vale of Glamorgan) : My hon. Friend may be pleased to learn that I recently had a meeting with the chief constable of the South Wales police, who reassured me that all the extra money made available by the Government will be spent on extra policing.
 Mr. William McKelvey  (Kilmarnock and Loudoun) : May I ask the right hon. Gentleman two things? First, perhaps the windfall tax will pay for the wind-chill factor to be taken into account in the new formula. That is a possibility, certainly for the first year of a Labour Government, and we would all welcome it. Secondly, he talks about VAT on coal. In 1995, the House voted against the Government's proposal to impose the second tranche
 300
 Mrs. Mahon : Is the Minister aware that Calderdale council, with all-party support, has twice tried to get a regeneration bid for Ovenden based mainly on employment and training? As Ovenden in my constituency is an area of high unemployment, will the Minister lend his weight to the next bid?
 Mrs. Ann Taylor  (Dewsbury) : I am grateful for the opportunity to present to the House a petition on behalf of Sharon Jackson of Thornhill Lees in Dewsbury and 1,700 other constituents of mine. The petition has been organised—very bravely—by Sharon Jackson, following the tragic death of her eight-year-old son David, who fell to his death from a local bridge over the River Calder. That people in Dewsbury are concerned about the safety of bridges crossing the River Calder and that an eight-year-old boy, David Jackson, fell from one such bridge to his death in April 1994. The petitioners therefore request that the House of Commons request that the relevant Government Department ensures that the bridge is made safe or demolished, in order to prevent any further fatalities.
 Mrs. Winterton : Given that we are spending more per pupil than ever before, will my hon. Friend acknowledge that Cheshire county council has increased spending on primary education and is now halfway up the shire county league table rather than bumping along at the bottom, as it was under the last Labour administration at county hall? Will he now implement the recommendations of the area
 349
7.  Mrs. Ann Winterton : To ask the Secretary of State for Education and Employment if she will make a statement on primary school funding in Cheshire. [11732]
 Mrs. Gillan : I thank my hon. Friend for that helpful question. I reassure him that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State will give careful consideration to the representations that have been made by the teachers unions, local education authorities and others, including the National Association of Head Teachers, and that she will make an announcement shortly. We shall consider all the options that have been placed before the Government.
 Mrs. Gillan : I consider a 12-week consultation period sufficient. No teachers, unions or representative bodies could believe that their representations had not been taken into account. If there are any further representations, we shall be pleased to receive them before the end of the week. 345
 Mrs. Gillan : No, I cannot agree with the hon. Gentleman that the handling of the matter has been inept. I would go so far as to say that there is much common ground between the Labour party and the Government on the teachers' superannuation scheme. A great deal of misinformation and dissembling has been going on, which has scared and unsettled many teachers and retired teachers.
 Mrs. Gillan : My right hon. Friend has so far received 36 written representations from consultees on the Government's proposed changes to the early retirement arrangements for teachers, and a large number of individual responses.
 Mrs. Gillan : I shall not allow the issue of teachers' pensions to become an attack on grant-maintained schools. There is no doubt that the Opposition parties would abolish grant-maintained schools. How would that help the morale of teachers in those schools? The hon. Gentleman knows that it is untrue to claim that GM schools are receiving preferential treatment. The Funding Agency for Schools will support some premature retirements and the local authority settlement allows for a continuing programme of retirements at 75 per cent. of current levels. There is no reason why local education authorities should not continue to offer premature retirements under the proposals.
 Mrs. Gillan : I have no problem agreeing with my hon. Friend's remarks. I draw the attention of all hon. Members to an article by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State that appeared in  The Times Educational Supplement "The whole country owes a great deal to teachers. Teachers are highly skilled: they are dedicated: they work very hard. The improvement in pupils' achievement, and hence the increase in the skills of the population, could not have been achieved without the help of teachers."
 Mrs. Gillan : My hon. Friend is right to say that the Department has received a large number of representations, and I have signed more than 1,000 letters to constituents. However, I believe that a consultation period of 12 weeks and the courtesy that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State has extended to organisations to come to see her and me is sufficient. I assure my hon. Friend that the points reasonably made during the consultation period will be taken into account.
 Mrs. Gillan : I am glad that the hon. Gentleman has raised the Shaw trust as an excellent example of what can be achieved by an organisation to ensure that valuable members of our society, although severely disabled, can enter employment successfully. The work of Mr. Tim Papé is well known to the Department and he continues to have a good dialogue with my noble Friend Lord Henley, who has direct responsibility for these matters. Last year the Department provided nearly £9.5 million in support of placements with the Shaw trust, and the Employment Service has every intention of continuing to contract with the trust to enable it to continue its excellent work.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mrs. Cheryl Gillan) : We often receive representations about a wide range of issues relating to the employment of disabled people, who now have important new rights in this area as a result of the Disability Discrimination Act 1995.
 Mrs. Gillan : I think that that is a most ungracious question. Everybody knows that the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 strikes a balance between the disabled and the employer and we ensure that no disabled person receives less favourable treatment. I would have expected the hon. Gentleman to welcome the Act and to talk about the potential that it has provided for all disabled people in this country.
 Mrs. Gillan : I should have thought that teachers' morale would have been enhanced because they were pleased by the local government funding settlement for 1997–98, which allows 3.6 per cent. more for education than in 1996–97. The hon. Gentleman should address his remarks to his local education authority, which is responsible for the fabric of its schools. He should not ask the Government questions: he should ask his local education authority.
 Mrs. Gillan : My hon. Friend makes a good point. The Government have increasingly, year on year, provided more funds for education, and the local education authorities should be answerable for how much of that money reaches the chalkface. The more that reaches our schools, the better it is for teacher morale.
 Mrs. Gillan : I cannot agree with a single word that the hon. Gentleman says. As far as the Government are concerned, high morale goes with good schools, and our policies for improving standards will also improve morale. I know what would be bad for my morale if I were a teacher: the prospect of a Labour Government, who would destroy grammar schools, grant-maintained schools and the assisted places scheme, attack independent schools, reverse the nursery voucher scheme and turn back all the progress that the Government have made on education. If I were a teacher, the prospect of a Labour Government would certainly destroy my morale.
 Mrs. Gillan : The Government recognise the skill and dedication of the vast majority of teachers, and say so at every opportunity.
 Mrs. Diana Maddock  (Christchurch) : Does the Minister recognise that, despite her statement today, many people think it a scandal that so many people have been in prison for so long when no offence has been committed? Does she agree that no one should be allowed admission to this country when they stage a hunger strike, but that delays are unacceptable? In the case of those on hunger strike in Rochester, may we have assurances from the Minister that there will be no further delays, that they will be told when they will get an appeal and that that appeal will be soon? Does the Minister recognise that many hon. Members are somewhat dismayed that such a situation is still occurring, given the reassurances that the House was given in respect of delays during the passage of the Asylum and Immigration Appeals Act 1993?
 Mrs. Maddock   indicated dissent.
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman : Will my right hon. Friend congratulate Lancaster university on its ability to attract the highest calibre of staff, enabling it to be placed third in the recent research assessments, after only Oxford and Cambridge, which it hopes to overtake eventually?
 Mrs. Shephard : I should be delighted to congratulate the university of Lancaster. In the recent exercise, the best universities have done better than last time and new universities and higher education colleges have significantly increased their number of active researchers and have improved their performance. I am happy to congratulate the university.
 Mrs. Shephard : I agree that the higher education sector is a priceless asset for this country because of its research base and the opportunities that it affords us to increase our global competitiveness. I remind the hon. Gentleman that under this Government there has been an expansion in the number of young people going to university from 12 per cent. in 1979 to 30 per cent. now. It is also encouraging that, while this country accounts for about 1 per cent. of the world's population, our universities account for 5 per cent. of the world's research. The sector is in good health and is doing well.
 Mrs. Shephard : Perhaps I should congratulate you, Madam Speaker, as chancellor of that excellent institution. The innovative work by the Open university is possibly showing the way for the development of the delivery of learning systems for the next century. One of its most interesting qualities is its work overseas—it has 17 outlets in Russia alone. I am delighted that you are the chancellor of such a first-class establishment.
 Mrs. Shephard : I cannot confirm the hon. Gentleman's first allegation, because it is not true. The proposals announced in the recent Budget provided a funding increase of £80 million to existing baselines of further education for the next two years. The plans provide for 20 per cent. growth in the number of students in further
 357
 Mrs. Shephard : The review was certainly thorough. The operation will have to be looked at again now that the exercise has been completed. The first necessity when allocating £700 million-worth of research is to do the job thoroughly.
 Mrs. Shephard : The staffing of universities is for institutions themselves, which are responsible for setting their own levels of pay and conditions of service.
 Mrs. Shephard : It is a peer review system that has been refined over 10 years, and it is as robust and sensitive as the funding bodies can make it. The hon. Gentleman will wish to place alongside it the quality assessment mechanisms developed by the universities. The mobility of academics is not necessarily unhelpful for university institutions and the health of the research base. As I am sure he is aware, research is increasingly globalised, so his criticism does not logically follow.
 Mrs. Gillian Shephard : The research assessment exercise supports our policy that research funding should selectively reward excellence, allowing world-class research to flourish and focusing increasing activity on higher-rated departments.
 Mrs. Shephard : I thank my hon. Friend for his ingenious question. I am sure that the distressing situation that he describes will not arise. Conservative Members believe that it is quite clear that the most effective way to
 343
 The Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mrs. Gillian Shephard) : I have received a number of representations on homework from various bodies and members of the public.
 Mrs. Shephard : It is neither necessary nor—perhaps more importantly—practical for the Government to introduce a legal framework to govern homework arrangements in all our 25,000 schools. The important thing is to disseminate good practice and guidance so that schools fully understand that it is in their interests and those of their pupils to have sensible homework policies.
 Mrs. Shephard : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. A very important difference between our policies and practice and those of the Opposition is that we have consistently concentrated on measures to raise standards by means of inspections, performance tables, tests and the national curriculum. The Labour party, which actually voted against the setting up of the Office for Standards in Education, is less than convincing when it proposes homework by law.
 Mrs. Dunwoody : Is the Minister aware that Cheshire primary schools now have real problems because of consistent underfunding of the county? That has not just happened; it has been the case for a long time. Moreover, the imposition of the voucher scheme has considerable implications for both primary and nursery school places. Will the Minister now admit that his education policies are failing the children of Cheshire?
 Mrs. Adams : If the Minister would give us the guidance on what offenders and offences he was talking about, we might know what offences to address, but, at
 374
 Mrs. Irene Adams  (Paisley, North) : You may recall, Madam Speaker, that I was interrupted in my speech last week when the Government hung on for yet another night and refused to move the 10 o'clock motion because, once more, they were frightened of losing a vote in the House. I was on my feet in support of my hon. Friend the Member for Dumbarton (Mr. McFall) and of the amendments that he had moved. Our contention was that electronic tagging should be part of the supervision and probation process, and that it should be used only as an alternative to imprisonment. "equipment alone will not ensure a successful programme". "The involvement of professional social workers is key."
 Mrs. Adams : The hon. Gentleman has got it wrong again. In fact our late colleague, the former Member for Glasgow, Gorbals, introduced the legislation.
 Mrs. Adams : I am unhappy with that suggestion, because our Whips might try it on us. However, my hon. Friend's first point was excellent. Tagging will not encourage children to look for a better way of life. The only way to do that is to give them hope. Some 20 per cent. of families in Britain do not have an income from a job coming into the household, and that does not encourage a better life. The proposal will not help them. [Interruption.] 375
 Mrs. Ewing : Will the Minister give way?
 Mrs. Ewing : Eskdalemuir.
 Mrs. Ewing   rose
 Mrs. Margaret Ewing  (Moray) : Not a cynical ploy any more, then?
 Mrs. Ewing : I am sorry, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I did not mean to be out of order. I was trying to put the matter in a general context, because I do not think it can be viewed in isolation. I was merely going to say that my party is not afraid to consider the redistribution of wealth through, for instance, tax policies. 310
 Mrs. Margaret Ewing  (Moray) : I am aware that the hon. Member for Falkirk, East (Mr. Connarty) wants to speak, so I shall try to be brief. 308 Interruption. 309
 Mrs. Maria Fyfe  (Glasgow, Maryhill) : Would the hon. and learned Gentleman like to comment on the fact that
 378
 Mrs. Fyfe : Will the Minister give way?
 Dame Peggy Fenner  (Medway) : Has the percentage of people detained among asylum seekers—or alleged asylum seekers—declined since our introduction of the new rules last year? It is my recollection that it was said at that time that it was less than 2 per cent.; can my hon. Friend confirm that it is now about 1 per cent.? Did any of the six who are so tragically refusing liquid refreshment arrive in this country for a reason other than seeking asylum?
 Ms Angela Eagle  (Wallasey) : The people of Merseyside are deeply worried about the way in which the new system of police grant allocation has adversely affected their area. The Minister will be well aware of that, as many representations were made in the past financial year about the problems facing the area in the transition from the old to the new system. 474 475
 Ms Angela Eagle  (Wallasey) : Will the Minister explain to the House why the Merseyside police service has suffered a reduction of more than 400 in the number of officers on the beat in the past few years?
 Ms Eagle : The hon. Lady will know that the pension component of the formula presents particular difficulties in Merseyside. Is she absolutely certain that her Department has taken account of all the extra retirements and the efficiency savings that the police force has made by removing part of the management structure, to which she referred earlier? That has put even more pressure on this area of expenditure.
 Ms Eagle : Does my hon. Friend agree that the people of Wirral are extremely unhappy with being forced to pay a 50 per cent. increase in their council tax precept for the police service in the past three years, yet they have many fewer officers than before the increases?
 Mrs. Clwyd : "Thou shalt not kill."
 Mrs. Ann Clwyd  (Cynon Valley) : The Minister constantly wears a cross round her neck. Can she tell us how she equates her Christian conscience with allowing those people to die?
 Ms Estelle Morris : At least there seems to be some agreement that homework raises standards, but why do not the Government show some leadership in ensuring that all children can benefit from it? Does the Secretary of State not understand that the very half-hearted initiative that she announced recently, which will not benefit all children, is wrong, and that she should support Labour's policy of minimum homework targets and a national network of homework centres to support those children who have home backgrounds where homework is difficult?
 Ms Joyce Quin  (Gateshead, East) : I begin by congratulating the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Cash) on his success in winning the ballot. This seemed a surprising subject for an Adjournment debate as it is so wide-ranging, although I could understand it if the hon. Gentleman felt that there had not been enough occasions to debate the issues on the Floor of the House. I share the criticism that the Committees which scrutinise European legislation and others have made that the Government have not allowed enough time for many of the wide-ranging European issues to be discussed and have tended to hide the discussions away in Committee rather than allow them to take place on the Floor of the House for more widespread scrutiny and debate. The Daily Telegraph
 Ms Quin : No, I will not give way any more because of lack of time. 288 "a whited sepulchre … dead on the inside."—[ Official Report, 289
 Ms Quin : My hon. Friend cites the preamble, with which we are all familiar. The hon. Member for Stafford said that he was proud of his record in having opposed the Maastricht treaty, although he seemed less forthcoming about his role in supporting the Single European Act, which, as we know, was guillotined through the House of Commons by the Government, led by Baroness Thatcher.
 Ms Quin : The fact that the hon. Gentleman says that he pointed out those issues shows that they were raised in the debate, and anybody who took an interest in European policy at the time knows that they were raised by many people. The most perfunctory reading of the treaty of Rome, especially the preamble on the first page, would have made the position completely clear.
 Ms Joyce Quin  (Gateshead, East) : I am listening with interest to what the hon. Gentleman has to say. Is it true that, at the time of the Single European Act, he said in a debate in the House that he thought that the dangers of qualified majority voting were very much exaggerated?
 Ms Cunningham : That is clearly a matter of concern. I am grateful for the information. I hope that the Minister will respond to the points that we are making. 295
 Ms Cunningham : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for giving further details of the Angus scheme. It will obviously result in great savings for individuals within that period. It is worth a great deal of money to those in receipt of the benefits which accrue to them from living in Angus. 297 "The next millennium is only lour years away and yet Scotland still has an estimated 800,000 households experiencing fuel poverty while the country is rich in fossil fuels and sources of renewable energy."
 Ms Cunningham : Absolutely. That is a fair point. My party would like to see a complete change, but there is no doubt that even the present system could be made far more responsive.
 Ms Roseanna Cunningham  (Perth and Kinross) : I am grateful for the opportunity to express my concerns and the concerns of the Scottish National party about the operation of the cold weather payments scheme and the problem of fuel poverty in Scotland. The scheme was intended to ensure that our most vulnerable citizens had enough money to finance extra fuel requirements over winter. I aim to highlight the fact that it has failed on several fronts to achieve its aim. 292 "Wearing my medical hat, let me say that hypothermia … affects many people who die of chronic heart failure or chronic obstructive airways disease. I have no doubt that for thousands of people death is hastened by hypothermia even though it does not appear on their death certificates."—[ Official Report, "perplexed successive Governments for years… The real problem, then as now… is not hypothermia, but the additional deaths from all causes, particularly heart disease, strokes and chest infections, which tend to occur in winter. It is a long-standing problem that our excess winter mortality rate is higher than that in other countries with severe winters, such as Sweden."—[ Official Report, British Medical Journal 293 294
 Ms Roseanna Cunningham : The right hon. Gentleman is remarking on my speech and I wish to point out that I clearly put a cost on our proposed scheme—£170 million per year.
 Ms Roseanna Cunningham  (Perth and Kinross) : I shall speak to amendments Nos. 220 to 222, which my hon. Friend the Member for Moray (Mrs. Ewing) and I tabled. 397 "if any difficulties"— "arise, they will be taken fully into account before extending such schemes more widely". "The Bill's provision will permit restriction of liberty orders to be introduced in Scotland on a pilot basis. Even those … who have doubts about the proposal's effectiveness cannot object to it being tried out in practice to establish whether it has a useful role to play."—[ Official Report. First Scottish Standing Committee.
 Rev. Martin Smyth : Does the Minister agree that there may be an opportunity for more firms throughout the nation to follow the example of a firm in my constituency, which brings in school children one day a week, employs them during holidays and pays them a reasonable wage? As a result, the children are trained in work skills in a real situation and are prepared to take jobs in that industry. Does that not help in relation to their training and opportunities?
 Sir Alan Haselhurst : Is it not the case that the only thing that creates jobs, be they part-time or full-time, is the success of British companies and businesses in earning wealth for this country? No amount of fiddling around with increased taxes on industry by one means or another will improve real opportunities for people in future.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment (Sir Paul Beresford) : We talk about capping and this debate has capped an intriguing month. This month, we have been told by the right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East (Mr. Brown) that global expenditure will be kept down and that personal taxation will remain fixed—if we ever had the misfortune of a Labour Government—and the Minister for Local Government, Housing and Urban Regeneration and I met between 80 and 100 local authorities. They sang the same tune. They were almost all Labour. A few were Liberal, but they seemed to be under the same banner. 485
 Sir Paul Beresford : No. I have just a few minutes left and I have plenty to say.
 Sir Paul Beresford : I am afraid not. I have seven or eight minutes left. There is a lot to say, as much is happening in the region.
 Sir Paul Beresford : I did give my hon. Friend notice. 487 488
 Hon. Members : Withdraw.
 Several hon. Members   rose
 The Minister for Competition and Consumer Affairs (Mr. John M. Taylor) : I congratulate my right hon. Friend the Member for Selby (Mr. Alison) on securing this debate. I welcome the opportunity it provides to discuss the issue of insurance cover for properties in areas exposed to the risk of coal mining subsidence damage. As he said, it is an issue that potentially affects large numbers of homes in his constituency and elsewhere. 572 "ensure consistent application of an informed underwriting policy of generally being prepared to insure such policies". 573 574 Hansard
 Dr. Gavin Strang  (Edinburgh, East) : Is the Minister aware that there will be widespread agreement with his quite explicit statement today that the general public have lost confidence in the Government on food safety issues? I remind him that, in the face of arguments from bodies
 524
 Dr. Jeremy Bray  (Motherwell, South) : Has the Minister actually read the Pennington report on the E. coli outbreak in my constituency, which was the immediate trigger for this change of front on the part of the Government? Professor Pennington recommended that the outbreak control team should be independent of the health board and of the local authority, and that it should be headed by a person who can make decisions. If that is true of the agency delivering the service in the event of an outbreak, how much more true is it of the advice and recommendations to Ministers in the planning of the process?
 Dr. John Marek  (Wrexham) : May I draw the attention of the Leader of the House to early-day motion 457, which is headed "Wrexham Central Station and Railtrack"? That this House deplores the attempt by Railtrack to close Wrexham Central Station in a bid to increase profits from the development of surrounding land; notes the findings of the RUCC for Wales following a recent public inquiry that the closure of the station and its replacement 538 by one some 400 yards further away from Wrexham town centre would cause hardship to the town and to rail users and should not be allowed to go ahead; further notes that Railtrack has ignored these recommendations and is seeking to persuade the Rail Regulator not to accept the RUCC findings; and calls on Railtrack to abandon its closure proposals, produce plans for development keeping Wrexham Central Station roughly in its present central position and to start behaving in a manner suitable to that of a rail company and not a property company.
 Dr. Joe Hendron  (Belfast, West) : My father is buried in the Catholic graveyard at Drumcree, so I understand the situation there well. The Secretary of State will recall the meeting that I had with him on the evening of 12 July regarding the parade to be held the next day on the Ormeau road. I know that he will agree that the people of Northern Ireland, from both communities, and in some areas more than others, are deeply concerned about what might happen this summer.
 Dr. Hendron : The Secretary of State will confirm that he has had discussions with my party, the Social Democratic and Labour party, with regard to future elections, including the forthcoming local government and general elections. I refer to serious electoral fraud, where proven irregularities with regard to registration and vote stealing are well known, and where thousands of votes are stolen at each election. The biggest problem—the Secretary of State referred to it—is personation. Will he make a statement on the matter, bearing in mind that medical cards and social security documents are in no way proof of identity?
 Ms Marjorie Mowlam  (Redcar) : I thank the Secretary of State for his statement. I also thank the authors of the report, Dr. Peter North, Father Oliver Crilly and the Very Rev. John Dunlop, and their staff. It is a thorough and useful report that addresses issues of significance that in the end require politicians to make political judgments. "the consent to comply with the rule of law did not exist." "The right to peaceful free assembly should be protected". 511
 Ms Mowlam : I would like to send my condolences to the families of those who died on Bloody Sunday and to all the families who have lost someone in the conflict in Northern Ireland. Does the Secretary of State agree that, although this is a difficult time for parties to take extra steps forward in the talks, the time will always be difficult, and that what is needed now is a determination from all parties to make some progress? Do the two Governments have any specific plans to encourage and assist the parties to take those steps?
 Dr. Norman A. Godman  (Greenock and Port Glasgow) : I hope that the Secretary of State will forgive me if I refrain from applauding him on this occasion. May I remind him that Dr. North, who is not regarded as a radical legal thinker, lists in appendix 1 those persons and bodies providing submissions and contributions to the review team. The list runs to six pages. Is it the Secretary of State's intention to invite those persons and bodies to submit their considered opinions of the findings in the report? If that is not his intention and he intends to consult others, why will it take two months? Why not a month, as the hon. Member for Belfast. West (Dr. Hendron) suggested, so that legislation can pass through the House?
 Mr. Ancram : I am very grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his tribute to those agencies and persons, not least to my noble Friend Lady Denton. I will ensure that she is aware of the tribute. I also appreciate his comment on trades unions' conduct, which has certainly played a major part in achieving the stability that has made the figures possible.
 Mr. Ancram : I certainly welcome the job announcements mentioned by the hon. Gentleman. My right hon. Friend the Minister of State, who is on the Treasury Bench, is considering the type of transitional scheme that he mentioned, and we will make announcements in due course.
 Mr. Ancram : I hear what the hon. and learned Gentleman has to say. He knows that this year there has been a particularly difficult public expenditure round in which priorities have had to be examined carefully, not least because of the need to find £120 million to meet the increased costs that have arisen as a result of renewed
 494
 Mr. Ancram : I agree with my hon. Friend. There is absolutely no doubt that terrorism and violence affect the prospects, not only of those against whom they are aimed but of the communities of the perpetrators. It is an insult to the futures of their children that the IRA continue with terror in the way it does—I roundly condemn it.
 Mr. Ancram : The introduction of the jobseeker's allowance may have had some impact but it was designed to ensure that those who claimed to be unemployed were genuinely unemployed. The way in which we can best serve the unemployed in Northern Ireland is to create more jobs and to have a growing economy. Instead of talking down the Northern Ireland economy, we should be talking it up.
 Mr. Ancram : The year ending 31 March 1996 was the best ever for inward investment in Northern Ireland. Thirty-five projects were secured, offering 4,869 new jobs and representing total investment of £432 million. So far this year, 15 investments by externally owned companies have been secured for Northern Ireland.
 Mr. Ancram : I agree totally with my hon. Friend Again, that goes to show that the Government's policy in that area is totally right and in the interests of the people of Northern Ireland.
 The Minister of State, Northern Ireland Office (Mr. Michael Ancram) : Most areas of Northern Ireland have a selective system of secondary education. I have no plans to change the present system, which serves Northern Ireland well.
 Mr. Ancram : As my hon. Friend knows and is right to remind us, my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Education has already made it clear that our intention as a party and Government is to introduce increased selection in the rest of the United Kingdom. As Minister with responsibility for education in Northern Ireland, I can say that we have every right to be proud of the education system there which, as we know from yesterday's figures, produces at the top end of the GCSE scale 52 per cent. of pupils leaving with five or more GCSEs compared with 44 per cent. in England. Equally important at the lower end is the fact that 5 per cent. of Northern Ireland pupils leave secondary education without qualifications, compared with 8 per cent. in England. Those percentages speak for themselves in terms of the Northern Ireland system.
 Mr. Ancram : I note what the hon. Gentleman says. I should be grateful if he would let me know of specific instances of the avoidance of selection. The purpose of the Northern Ireland education system is to produce choice and part of that is to have a selective system so that parents can put their children forward for selection in the transfer test, as about 70 per cent. do. It is important to recognise that it is not only Northern Ireland parents who recognise the value of selective education. The hon. Member for Peckham (Ms Harman), who sits on the Opposition Front Bench, also recognises it for her children.
 Mr. Ancram : Savings will be made in almost every area that the hon. Gentleman mentioned—if he and other hon. Members support legislation that the Government intend to introduce. I look forward to hearing of his support when that occurs. I was interested to hear him ask whether money will be available, because I had understood that the shadow Chancellor had made it clear that the Government's announced spending figures would not be changed in the unlikely event of an incoming Labour Government. Once again, as Opposition spokesmen have so often made clear, there is a distinct gulf between the shadow Chancellor's statements and shadow Ministers' spending projections.
 Mr. Ancram : Unemployment is falling rapidly in Northern Ireland. During 1996, it fell by 12,000, and the figure is now the lowest in over 16 years. Employment also is at record levels—currently 573,160—and I am confident that the growing economy will continue to offer increasing job opportunities in Northern Ireland.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The House must come to order.
 Madam Speaker : Order. [AN HON. MEMBER: "He was shouting abuse at the Prime Minister."] Order, If anyone has been abusive, they will indicate it to me.  [Interruption.]
 Madam Speaker : Before the Secretary of State responds, I remind the House that we are asking questions on a serious report. I do not seek long comments and speeches but brisk questions and comments. Several hon. Members are on their feet, and I shall do my best to call as many as possible.
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : Order. I invite the hon. Member and all others to put their points in question form.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : Order. I am prepared to take questions from those hon. Members who are already standing, but perhaps the questions could be shorter and snappier.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : Order. I asked for short and snappy questions. I call Mr. Hogg.
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : Order. That is a very long question.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : Order. Questions are getting long again.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : Order. I remind the hon. Gentleman that he should be addressing me. I have noticed that the capacity to go on and on is not confined to one side of the House.
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : The hon. Gentleman must leave that in the hands of the Chair.
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : Order. I remind the hon. and learned Member for
 550
 Mr. Carlile : Yes or no?
 Mr. Carlile : Yes or no? I want an answer to the question.
 Mr. Carlile : Yes or no?
 Mr. Alex Carlile  (Montgomery) : In the context of what he has been saying, will the Minister give an assurance that the Lord Chancellor's Department will ensure that the court staff who are needed to deal with the extra work that will go through county court offices will be employed, so that we will not face delays caused by staff shortages in those offices? They are very short-staffed in some regions.
 Mr. Alex Carlile : Is the answer to the very good question of the hon. Member for Stoke-on-Trent, North (Ms Walley) that a Labour Government would be opposed to increases in court fees but would not do anything about them once they had been imposed? That seems to be what the hon. Member for Brent, South (Mr. Boateng) is saying. The House, the profession and the clients are entitled to an answer, yes or no, from the Labour party.
 Mr. Carlile : If the hon. Gentleman will restrain himself for one moment and listen, I think that he will agree that the hon. Member for Stoke-on-Trent, North is entitled to a yes or no answer from her Front-Bench spokesman to a very important question.
 Mr. Alex Carlile  (Montgomery) : This is an important Bill that should, and is likely to, change the operation of civil litigation for the better. I am sure that all hon. Members have experience of constituents who have relatively small claims and who are afraid of going to law. They expect their Member of Parliament to wave a magic wand that would avoid the need to go to law. Often, we cannot do so. We have to tell them that their only recourse is to go to court and the best we can do is to recommend a competent solicitor. There are one or two such in the House today and I can see at least two on the Conservative Benches. 559 560 561
 Mr. Alex Carlile  (Montgomery) : Does the right hon. and learned Gentleman, who has had very distinguished experience as a Law Officer over a number of years, agree that the introduction of a requirement to co-operate with a commission that has a conciliatory and adjudicatory role
 517
 Mr. Alex Carlile : Given the apparently slow process of the all-party talks and the reluctance of some to participate in them at all, what is the current role and effect, if any, of dialogue between the British Government and, respectively, the Governments of the Republic of Ireland and the United States of America in possibly catalysing the effectiveness of the talks?
 Mr. Hunter : With regard to the Bloody Sunday controversy, does my right hon. and learned Friend agree that we could spend a very long time going through the pages of Anglo-Irish history, apportioning and reapportioning blame, but the exercise would achieve nothing? It is far better to spend our time and energies building new relations than reliving past tragedies.
 Mr. Andrew Hunter  (Basingstoke) : I warmly welcome my right hon. and learned Friend's statement Will he agree that this is a time for very great caution? It would be unreasonable to impose unnecessary or excessive demands on the organisers of more than 3,100 nationalist and Unionist marches that habitually take place each year without disorder. May I draw his attention in particular to recommendation 20 of the summary of recommendations, which states that the police should retain the power to intervene on public order grounds
 "in the extreme circumstances of the determination of the Parades Commission being defied".
1.  Mr. Mackinlay : To ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland what representations he has received from (a) political parties and (b) other bodies about the (i) arrangements and (ii) timing of the local government election in Northern Ireland. [11967]
 Mr. Mackinlay : Does the Secretary of State understand that the good folk of Northern Ireland want, along with the rest of us, a general election so that they can say no to the privatisation of the Post Office and can elect a Government who will reduce the hospital waiting list and get youngsters back to work and on to proper training schemes? Is there not, however, a problem that the local government elections in Northern Ireland are scheduled for 21 May? It would be absurd for the general election to run in tandem with or to overlap those elections. Would it not be far better either to call a general election now, or to pass legislation that brought forward the local government elections in Northern Ireland to 1 May?
 Mr. Andrew Mackinlay  (Thurrock) : As it will be some time before we discuss the Police Bill in this House, will the Leader of the House arrange for the Home Secretary to make a statement next week to allay the growing fears of Roman Catholic priests, and priests, ministers and pastors of other denominations, who are concerned about the implications of the police's bugging powers under the Bill for the seal of confession or the traditional pastoral counselling given by ministers of religion to their flocks? There is a fear that, unless the Bill contains an explicit exemption to protect the seal of confession and counselling by ministers of religion, there will be a great temptation for police who are trying to get a prosecution to bug those confidential discussions. That confidentiality has been honoured by the state since time immemorial.
 Mr. Clifford Forsythe : Is the Secretary of State aware that many potential candidates are not particularly
 490
 Mr. Clive Soley  (Hammersmith) : Does the Secretary of State accept that one of the most powerful arguments for allowing the proposed Parades Commission to exercise the power to determine a legally binding order on a march is that it would not put the Chief Constable in the invidious position in which he found himself last year?
 Mr. Soley : That Chief Constable was retiring, but had he been newly in position, his position would have become untenable after Drumcree. Perhaps the Secretary of State will remind the Unionist party, from which I am receiving some comments at the moment, that enforcing the rule of law in Northern Ireland is vital and is a first priority for whichever party wins the next election. We shall not shirk that duty. It needs to be made abundantly clear that any challenge to the rule of law that took place last year has enormous implications for the people of Northern Ireland.
 Mr. Soley : Does the second part of the first answer to the hon. Member for East Londonderry (Mr. Ross) mean
 501
 Mr. Ashby : My right hon. Friend has undoubtedly seen the statement by the chairman of Toyota. Does my right hon. Friend agree that Toyota came to this country because my right hon. Friend's policies provided the most favourable climate for companies such as Toyota to have a gateway into Europe? Does the chairman's statement not show that it is important that we should maintain that gateway—important that we should maintain our foot in Europe, so that we get increased investment?
 Mr. Ashby : Has my right hon. Friend seen the statement— [Interruption.]
 Mr. David Shaw  (Dover) : Would it be appropriate to have a debate on whether the United Kingdom should adopt American practice and require party political leaders to disclose their medical records? We saw today the Leader of the Opposition collapse in a fit at the end of his question. It was worrying to hear him shouting into the air the words, "Weak, weak, weak, weak," as he collapsed. That is surely an indication that the Leader of the Opposition's mental state should be examined at the earliest opportunity.
 Mr. David Shaw  (Dover) : On a point of order, Madam Deputy Speaker. Earlier today, during Prime Minister's Question Time, a number of lengthy questions were asked. I was going to raise the issue of the closure of St. Margaret's fire station by the over-extended Kent county council, but I was unable to do so. Mine was Question 4. Many of the questions asked by Opposition Members had clearly been written by those at Walworth road, and were far too long: they could not get the lines out in time. Could the possibility of a system involving shorter questions at Prime Minister's Question Time be investigated?
 Mr. David Trimble  (Upper Bann) : I welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that any implementation of the report will be by proper legislation, rather than by means of the thoroughly unsatisfactory Order in Council procedure. I also welcome his decision to consult further on the more radical proposals in the report—proposals that do indeed have constitutional implications. In doing that, the right hon. and learned Gentleman is drawing a distinction between the conciliation functions suggested for the commission, and the adjudication functions. He has put his finger on an important point: that conciliation and adjudication are, by their very nature, two different functions, and that to give them to the same body will result in the adjudication function distorting and undermining the question of conciliation. 513
 Mr. Trimble : I ask the Secretary of State to turn his mind back three and a half months, to a paper that we submitted to him and the other participants in the inter-party talks. The paper showed how the talks could proceed to substantive issues quickly. Does he share my disappointment that, rather than following the path that we had mapped out, some parties preferred to give a higher priority to trying to involve Sinn Fein in the process, notwithstanding the abundant evidence that Sinn Fein-IRA are committed to violent methods and to a mixture of threat and political manoeuvre to achieve their ends? Does he agree that the resulting impasse must be tackled positively and that there is no point in us being stuck in that impasse? It is now necessary to find other ways to make progress.
 Mr. David Winnick  (Walsall, North) : Earlier today at Question Time, the Secretary of State, speaking of Bloody Sunday, said that we should not look back so much as look forward; but do not some of the most provocative and sectarian marches in Northern Ireland commemorate events of centuries ago? As for the IRA, did not Drumcree provide the propaganda that it so desperately requires, as did the terrible and tragic events of Bloody Sunday 25 years ago? Is not that also one of the lessons that we should learn?
 Mr. Skinner : Tell us about fantasy land.
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : When will the writ for the Wirral, South by-election be moved? It is odd that
 541
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Is the Minister aware that the public will take the view that, every time there is a crisis, the Government make up their approach to food safety as they go along? With BSE, E. coli, and even dioxins about eight years ago, some of us called for a separation of duties. The problem with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is that it is linked to the rich farming lobby. Until there is a separation of duties, the public will understand that the Tory party running the Ministry cares only about the rich farmers who line its pockets and vote for it.
 Mr. Anderson : I noticed the inadvertent mistake, but thought it prudent not to intervene at that point. 556
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : That was indeed the fast track. The Bill and the "Access to Justice" report on which it is based represent the fruitful coming together of two men. The Lord Chancellor had the foresight to see the need for reform, the flexibility to change his position on the Civil Justice Council, following his reluctance about it on Second Reading, and, perhaps most importantly, the wisdom to pick the right man for the job—Lord Woolf. 555
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : I will refrain from making any political point about who will need to implement the Bill after the election, but the Minister is being somewhat disingenuous. The explanatory and financial memorandum states:
 "The costs of establishing and maintaining the Civil Justice Council are expected to be about £250,000 per annum and will be met from within existing provision. The Bill is not expected to have any other significant financial implications."
 Sir Donald Thompson  (Calder Valley) : Does my right hon. and learned Friend agree that, whichever party is in power, a strong Ministry of Food and Agriculture is necessary? If it were replaced, as the Labour party suggests, by one Minister of State in the Department of the Environment and one in the Department of Health, our standing in Europe would be further diminished. Does my right hon. and learned Friend agree that the general public, apart from the food fascists, need much reassurance, and that the appointment will reassure the public that much of what we do is the best in Europe, and will identify the necessary adjustments?
 Mr. Hogg : Both parts of my hon. Friend's question are very sound. Let me focus on the first part, regarding the
 529
 The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mr. Douglas Hogg) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I should like to make a statement on arrangements for handling food safety.
 Mr. Hogg : A moment's reflection will make it plain to the hon. Gentleman that what we are proposing is infinitely better than what he just suggested. I suspect that he is suggesting three things, although he only said two. He wants an agency with executive responsibility. He wants that agency to explain and justify the safety of food, explaining and justifying the actions that have been taken by the agency. It would be fair to say that he would like the agency to be accountable to Ministers.
 Mr. Hogg : The hon. Lady has not thought through the policy that she or those on her Front Bench are trying to put across. Their concept of an agency involves at least two elements: first, that the agency is responsible for implementing food safety policy, and secondly, that the agency is responsible for reassuring the public as to the success of the policy that it itself has introduced and implemented.
 Mr. Hogg : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his support. Yes, indeed, we did look at a number of models, and at the Food and Drug Administration in particular. The FDA is not quite as some people think it is. For example, meat and poultry safety in the United States is the responsibility not of the FDA. but of the Department of Agriculture.
 Mr. Hogg : As I said in my statement, the council will be appointed by my right hon. Friends. A number of my right hon. Friends are appointing Secretaries of State or Ministers for these purposes. Ultimately, the Ministers—my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Health for example, and myself—will make the appointment, but it is in our interests to appoint people of standing and authority who will command respect. 527
 Mr. Hogg : My hon. Friend makes an important point in the latter part of his question. As to the former part, the status of the chief medical officer is a good analogy. It is not quite the same, but it is very similar to the concept that we have in mind. I believe that most hon. Members would accept that, when the chief medical officer speaks, he speaks with real independence and authority. We are seeking to create someone very similar in connection with food safety.
 Mr. Hogg : That goes outwith the scope of the statement, but I am sure that the food safety adviser, the chairman of the council, will in due time have his attention drawn to all relevant matters, which might include the point made by the hon. Gentleman; in any event, it might be possible for the hon. Gentleman, if he wins his seat, to put those points to the chairman of the council.
 Mr. Hogg : I draw a slight distinction for these purposes, if I might, between the chairman and the council members. It is likely that, in the case of the chairman of the council, the food safety adviser, we shall advertise publicly, but we may also employ headhunters. For council members, it is very likely that we shall advertise publicly; we may also go through the appropriate channels for suggestions.
 Mr. Hogg : In rather a convoluted way, I think the hon. Gentleman is giving me his support. As I have explained to the House, we are separating the functions in a dramatic way. We are making a division between the function of formulating and carrying through policy, which will be the responsibility of Ministers accountable to the House, and the function of the council, which will be to form views on food safety and related matters, and to communicate them publicly to the country, to Parliament and elsewhere. That division of functions is at the heart of our proposals—and incidentally, is denied by Members on the hon. Gentleman's own Front Bench.
 Mr. Hogg : The hon. Gentleman's comments sound like a criticism of the much more expensive policies for an agency advanced by those on his Front Bench, or a request for additional public spending. On the first part of his question, the fact that he was able to raise the matter with Ministers, and the fact that, under our system, they are accountable demonstrate the good sense of our approach.
 Mr. Hogg : To be short and snappy: the hon. Gentleman is talking nonsense.
 Mr. Hogg : I know that there is concern about genetically modified foodstuffs. However, it is a general issue, and I shall not elaborate in the context of this question. The fact that there is much public anxiety about genetically modified foodstuffs underlines the importance of our proposal. The Food Safety Council would be in a position to address precisely that question—together with related questions of labelling and so forth—and to make its views known to the House and to the public at large. That is a very powerful argument as to why we should adopt that policy.
 Mr. Hogg : There is a pleasing irony in the hon. Gentleman urging me to be humble. Nevertheless, I shall take advice whence it comes.
 Mr. Hogg : As I said in my statement, it is our intention to make the appointments, other than that of Sir Kenneth Calman, after the general election. 525
 Mr. Hogg : In the first place, the E. coli outbreak is not the trigger for my announcement today. This policy has been in formulation for many months.
 Mr. Hogg : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend for the generous way in which he has received the proposals. The agriculture industry, along with many other interest groups, will be represented on the council, but in the end it will be for the council to determine into which matters it wishes to inquire and what its views are. To that extent, I cannot fetter in any way the council's discretion; nor would I wish to do so. Public reassurance and confidence depends on the independence of the council and the adviser and the regard in which they are held by the public as a whole.
 Mr. Hogg : We are all in the business of facing facts, and, after the experience of the past 12 months regarding BSE, it would be idle and foolish for me not to accept that the public do not have the degree of confidence that I would like them to have and which I believe would be justified, when Ministers and officials associated with Departments talk about food safety. They do not, and that is a fact; and we must address that issue.
 Mr. Hogg : My hon. Friend makes an important point, because a range of very important independent advisory committees already exists. The best known is the Spongiform Encephalopathy Advisory Committee, whose chairman. Professor Pattison, is a man of the greatest distinction. We have relied heavily on the advice of those advisory committees, and on SEAC in particular, regarding BSE. However, what we have in mind goes beyond the area covered by the specialist committees, will be more general in its scope and will be a great deal more public, and that is our intention.
 Mr. Edward Garnier  (Harborough) : I begin by declaring an interest as a practitioner in this area of the law. I congratulate the hon. Member for Brent,
 553
 Mr. Garnier : Whether it will be a pale green book, a zebra book or any other colour of book does not really matter. The main thing is that the rules will be simple and simply expressed, which is welcome. I am also pleased to hear that we shall have a debate in due course on the rules. I am sure that the hon. Member for Brent, South will entertain us on that occasion as well. Interruption. "Civil Procedure Rules may provide for the exercise of the jurisdiction of any court within the scope of the rules by officers or other staff of the court." 554
 Mr. Illsley : We, too, welcome the dramatic fall in unemployment in Northern Ireland, but has not part of that dramatic fall been the result of the introduction of the jobseeker's allowance, which has forced a number of claimants off the job register because of the very strict conditions of the jobseeker's contract? Should not the Government reconsider the cuts to the action for community employment schemes, which have a proven record in providing employment for the long-term unemployed, especially at a time when the job skills programme is in a state of confusion?
 Mr. Streeter : This has been an important debate on an important Bill, and every hon. Member who has spoken has made a valuable contribution. I should like to deal quickly with some of the important points that were raised. 566
 Mr. Streeter : I apologise to the hon. Gentleman for mentioning in response to his intervention that the £250,000, to which he is referring again, was for the rule committee. That sum is in fact for the Civil Justice Council.
 Mr. Streeter : Get on with it.
 Mr. Streeter : That is obvious.
 Mr. Streeter : The hon. Gentleman is right. It is not true in the wider context of the report, which will of course take far greater resourcing to implement. Those resources are being and will be made available for training and information technology. The figure that the hon. Gentleman read out refers to the unified rule committee, which the Bill is all about, but I assure him that we will adequately resource this important and radical new system. 546 547
 Mr. Streeter   rose
 Mr. Streeter : It is certainly our intention to resource the alterations to the system properly. We will ensure that people are adequately trained, that the most modern and appropriate technology is in place, and of course that the appropriate number of staff are available to ensure that this system, which is all about speed and minimising delay, works effectively and properly—so I think that was a yes.
 The Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department (Mr. Gary Streeter) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time. 544 545
 Mr. Streeter : I have a simple question for the hon. Gentleman. To reverse the court fee increases would cost
 549
 Mr. Streeter : We have done that.
 Mr. Streeter : The hon. Gentleman will realise that the main cost features of the Bill are for training and the implementation of the appropriate computer systems. Next year's training budget is about £3 million, and the budget for computer technology for the county courts alone is £5.5 million. All that training and technology will be geared to making a success of the Woolf reforms.
 Mr. Streeter : It is in the budget.
 Mr. Streeter : I shall be replying to the debate, and I shall of course deal with the issue of resourcing.
 Mr. Gerry Sutcliffe  (Bradford, South) : Will the Leader of the House comment on two Bills that are making progress in the other place; the Protection from Harassment Bill and the Firearms (Amendment) Bill, which are important to hon. Members and to the country? What is happening with those Bills? Is it true that the delay in the House of Lords is due to the actions of the Liberal Democrats?
Q1.  Mr. Sutcliffe : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Thursday 30 January. [11997]
 Mr. Sutcliffe : Is the Prime Minister aware of reports today that the national health service is in near-collapse in the north-west of England, with bed shortages and people waiting on trolleys? It is in crisis in Bradford as well, with 289 operations cancelled in the past quarter. A much-needed accident and emergency unit, which we were promised, has not been delivered after many years and we have the outrage of two new mixed-sex wards, which the Prime Minister said would not happen. Is not the truth that there are two health services, just as there are two Tory parties—a real health service which is near collapse and a fantasy health service which the Prime Minister talks about in the press?
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : May we have a statement from the Secretary of State for Education and
 540
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : Is this not an entirely fraudulent proposal, given the Government's neglect of food safety enforcement? Is it not a fact that, in 1992, environmental health officers served 22,000 improvement notices, but that in 1995 that figure plummeted to 2,000—barely one tenth of its former level? Next Monday, the House will consider the revenue support grant settlement.
 532
 Mr. Harry Barnes  (North-East Derbyshire) : May we have a debate on the use made by Government Departments of postcode areas to collect information and to decide on the distribution of awards and grants? Post-code areas are for the administrative convenience of the Post Office, but their extensive use by Government Departments creates anomalies. For instance, the S12 and S18 areas in my constituency have not been triggered for cold weather payments, but the neighbouring S31, and the S42 and S44, which are further away, were triggered before Christmas because of the weather conditions. Different areas are linked to different stations. Some hold the peculiar belief that areas with a low number, such as
 539
 Mr. Harry Barnes  (North-East Derbyshire) : As the Secretary of State is being criticised by those on both sides of the argument in Northern Ireland, does he feel that he has just about got it right? His response is not negative; it is to accept one limb of the argument—the seven principles in
 522
 Mr. Dykes : May I ask my right hon. and learned Friend to return to those questions that were allowed by the Chair about events in 1972? I wish him well in the Government's continuing peace process. Given that the events of 1972 have been raised again, and bearing in mind the words of the Irish Foreign Minister—a respected figure in Irish and international politics, and in this country—would it not be right for the matter, which is of great concern, to be considered again, not least in view of the need to reassure the Catholic community in Northern Ireland?
 Sir Ivan Lawrence  (Burton) : Reducing tax allowances.
 Sir Ivan Lawrence  (Burton) : It is difficult to find in the House any members of the Bar who have any practice at all, such are the pressures of modern legislation. 557 The Independent "Foxing Woolf … Efforts to put radical civil justice reforms into practice are being hampered by a lack of co-ordination". 558
7.  Mr. Jacques Arnold : To ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland what representations he has received regarding intimidation of witnesses. [11973]
 Mr. Arnold : Is not the intimidation of witnesses a scandal and a perversion of the course of justice? What steps has my right hon. Friend taken to tighten up on that scandal?
 Mr. James Couchman  (Gillingham) : I welcome the appointment of the council. Further to the question asked by my hon. Friend the Member for Newark (Mr. Alexander), I too am anxious that the scaremongers who have caused huge damage to our food industry over recent years do not talk themselves on to the council.
 528
6.  Mr. Corbyn : To ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland what recent contact he has had with political parties in Northern Ireland to promote peaceful dialogue. [11972]
 Mr. Corbyn : Does not the Secretary of State recognise that Don Mullin's recent book on the events of Bloody Sunday provides important and compelling new evidence which should be examined independently so that the deaths and tragedy can be dealt with properly and guilt properly ascribed? If we are to build a peace process, there must be dialogue, but grievances and injustice must be examined and dealt with. Surely that has to be the way forward; otherwise we descend once more into the violence of the past 25 years.
 Mr. Hayes : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the people of Gibraltar are fiercely proud of being British and do not want to be a province of Spain? Will my right hon. Friend continue vigorously to support the people of Gibraltar to ensure that they have the same freedom of movement and voting that is taken for granted in the rest of Europe?
 Mr. Dowd : May I press the Secretary of State on the question that was asked by the hon. Member for Belfast, West (Dr. Hendron) in the light of the impending local elections and, in particular, the general election? Is the Secretary of State satisfied that all actions have been taken, not just against personation but to protect the integrity and accuracy of the register? If he is not satisfied
 491
 Mr. John Greenway  (Ryedale) : Can my right hon. and learned friend think of anything that might have been done over the last 10 years, had the special adviser already been in post? Is it not a fact that the Government have always sought the very best scientific advice and that that will continue under the new arrangement, but that, if it helps to give the public and the consumer greater reassurance about the safety of British food—which is the best in the world—that is all to the good?
 Mr. John Home Robertson  (East Lothian) : Is this the Government's response to the call made earlier this month by the president of the National Farmers Union of Scotland for a food safety body that commands the support and confidence of consumers? Cannot the Minister grasp the fact that we do not need just another advisory council? What consumers and every part of the industry require, and what Parliament should demand, is an effective food safety agency with executive power to control the whole issue.
 Mr. Hume : Is the Prime Minister aware that today is the 25th anniversary of one of the worst atrocities in the past 25 years in Northern Ireland, when the security forces shot dead 14 people on the streets of my city? Does he agree that the more than 3,000 people who have died in the past 25 years have all suffered atrocity, and that their families have suffered trauma because of such tragedies? 506
 The Prime Minister : I understand how the hon. Gentleman feels about the matter. Everybody knows his record in Northern Ireland over the years, and I pay due tribute to it.
 The Prime Minister : In a few minutes, the right hon. Gentleman will hear a statement by my right hon. and learned Friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland on the North report. However, in view of what he just said, I invite him to read the North report, and perhaps especially paragraph 1.49, which says:
 "We are well aware that it is for the Government to take a view on how far it wishes to adopt our recommendations". "No doubt there will be a period of consultation, and there may be some question as to how far new structures and procedures can be put in place in time for the 1997 'marching season'." 505
 The Prime Minister : Whenever the right hon. Gentleman gets abusive, we know that he is losing. If he is concerned about strength, will he today sack the hon. Member for Oldham, West (Mr. Meacher), who yesterday contradicted what he said about tax? Will he today sack the Deputy Chief Whip of the Labour party, who yesterday contradicted what was said about tax? All the right hon. Gentleman does is heckle and waft his arms around in a hopeless gesture. Yes or no—will he sack them or not? It is his policy, they are members of his shadow Cabinet, and they have denied his policy. 504
 The Prime Minister : We intend to maintain our voice in Europe—there should be absolutely no doubt about that—but we do not intend to follow slavishly whatever happens to be the favoured policy of some European Governments at any particular moment. We shall not follow policies that would be damaging to British interests. We shall not sign social chapters.  [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : I think it is possible— [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : Britain stands by its commitment to the people of Gibraltar, which was enshrined in the 1969 constitution. We will not be entering into arrangements under which the people of Gibraltar would pass under the sovereignty of another state against their freely and democratically expressed wishes. The Spanish Foreign Minister raised that matter informally with my right hon. and learned Friend the Secretary of State, as indeed he had done on a previous occasion. My right hon. and learned Friend rejected the idea, because such a proposal did not and would not have the consent of the people of Gibraltar.
 The Prime Minister : If the hon. Gentleman waits, he will hear what I have to say. 502 [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : I think that, before taking me to task on this, the right hon. Gentleman should perhaps talk to the scores of his own Members of Parliament that the right hon. Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney (Mr. Shore) said would oppose his stance. As the right hon. Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney said:
 "I think it almost an obligation to be honest with my own electorate." "I wasn't actually opposed to membership of the E.C. … I said within the closed doors of the Labour party that I disagreed with that policy."
 The Prime Minister : The right hon. Gentleman is just being plain silly. Is he telling the House that the right hon. Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney, the hon. Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner), the right hon. Member for Chesterfield (Mr. Benn) and the hon. Member for Newham, South (Mr. Spearing) are actually going to support his policy on Europe at the general election? He raises it on this day of all days—the first two Labour questioners on the Order Paper are among the 50 who say that we should not join a single currency. The right hon. Gentleman may ask his candidates to fib to the electorate—our candidates will set out their views, we will follow the policy that the Government have set out and people know our policy. What he is trying to do is to censor and smother what his party stands for.
 The Prime Minister (Mr. John Major) : This morning, I presided at a meeting of the Cabinet and had meetings with ministerial colleagues and others. In addition to my duties in the House, I shall be having further meetings later today.
 Mr. Marshall : I thank my right hon. Friend for that answer. A company told me today that, by relocating from Belgium to Britain, it had cut total costs by 40 per cent. Does that not demonstrate the job-creating policies of this Government and the job-destructive characteristics of the social chapter and a national minimum wage?
9.  Mr. John Marshall : To ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland if he will make a statement about inward investment into Northern Ireland. [11975]
 Mr. John Marshall  (Hendon, South) : May I ask my right hon. Friend to arrange an early debate on education? Has he read the report in tonight's  Evening Standard,
 Sir John Wheeler : Of course Ministers are always glad to meet distinguished persons to hear what they have to say, but I emphasise that Ministers cannot prejudge the outcome of proper inquiries.
 Sir John Wheeler : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for the concern that he has exhibited about the matter. It is a serious concern in Northern Ireland, and the Government have taken steps to strengthen the law. In 1996, a new statutory offence of intimidation of witnesses and jurors was created in the Criminal Justice (Northern Ireland) Order, which also covers pre-trial intimidation and revenge attacks after the trial. I agree with my hon. Friend about the importance of strengthening and maintaining the law to deal with that problem.
 Sir John Wheeler : The Government have not received any recent representations regarding intimidation of witnesses.
 The Minister of State, Northern Ireland Office (Sir John Wheeler) : A number of representations have been received from various public figures. These include representations received recently in support of comments made in a letter circulated by former Scots Guards officers.
 Sir John Wheeler : Of course I am aware of the character of the service that those two guardsmen may have given during their duties in Northern Ireland, but questions of guilt and innocence are matters for the courts to determine, and they have determined that Fisher and Wright had no lawful justification for firing at their victim. The cases of those guardsmen will now be considered in accordance with the terms of Mr. Justice Girvan's judgment, and the cases will be referred to the
 499
 Sir John Wheeler : The hon. Gentleman is right to draw attention to the fact that there are other forms of intimidation, especially of the nationalist population of Northern Ireland, by terrorist thugs. Since last year, there have been many hundred brutal attacks of great savagery. They are all investigated by the Royal Ulster Constabulary, which is of course dependent on information from the complainant; if that is forthcoming, people may be arrested, charged and placed before the courts. It is a most serious matter that engages the attention of the Government and of the Royal Ulster Constabulary every day.
 Sir John Wheeler : I agree with the hon. Lady: it is important that protection is provided in such circumstances. As she knows, Northern Ireland has its own criminal justice system and body of law, and it will be the Government's intention to follow the line of England and Wales in a separate order, replicating what is done for England and Wales, as soon as possible.
 Mr. Maginnis : Does the Minister agree that the problem is not exclusively the intimidation of witnesses but the intimidation of entire local communities, whose members have been beaten, crucified upside down or shot? The whole issue must be examined in that light. Can he give us an idea of the number of brutal beatings and other punishments that have occurred in the past year? Has the retribution against people intimidating those communities been equal to the magnitude of the crime?
 Mr. Ken Maginnis  (Fermanagh and South Tyrone) : Is it not the case that the report tells us nothing new? It tells us that 80 per cent. of society in Northern Ireland is tolerant of marches and that 80 per cent. is tolerant of protest. International protocols allow for that, anyway. Is it not the case that the 0.03 per cent. aggravation that occurred last year during marches was orchestrated by IRA ex-convicts, Mr. Brendan McKenna and Mr. Gerard Rice? Is not this tome a result of the action of those IRA felons? Would we not get everything out of proportion if we catered for such people in the manner that is suggested? 521
 Mr. Ken Maginnis  (Fermanagh and South Tyrone) : That is not right.
 Mr. Kevin McNamara  (Kingston upon Hull, North) : Is it not remarkable that, on the report's principal recommendation, the Government offer no opinion to the House, but say, "We have not come to an opinion. We are going to consult further and then we will come to an opinion"? Is it not rather ridiculous that, on the principal recommendation, the Government are not in any way giving a voice or a lead to people within these islands on what they consider should be the best course of action to take? Are they not in fact dodging the issue and putting it on the back boiler? By virtue of the timetable as laid down by the Secretary of State, even with all the good will in the world from all the other parties to facilitate legislation, we will not have anything in place before, at the earliest, half-way through the marching season, when some of the most dangerous marches will have already taken place.
 Mr. McNamara : You are the Duke of Plaza-Toro!
 Mr. Michael Alison  (Selby) : I am glad to have the opportunity to raise on the Adjournment an issue which is causing anxiety and detriment to constituents of mine in the Selby district of North Yorkshire. The issue relates to the costs and possibilities of insurance cover for houses and householders whose property is affected by coal mining subsidence. The Selby district is particularly susceptible to the difficulties that I shall outline, because our local complex of mine workings is one of the largest and most modern in Britain, if not in Europe, extracting vast quantities of coal day and night under a huge local coalfield area, extending to scores of square miles. "The insurance companies themselves have confirmed that they are more than willing to effect new insurance cover to properties in known coal mining areas provided that the property in question has no history of subsidence damage. None of the companies I have spoken to will effect new cover on a property with a history of subsidence damage, whatever the cause of the subsidence." 569 "However, if a property has suffered from subsidence damage for which repairs either have, or have not been carried out, proposers are advised to remain with their existing insurers.… If the subsidence problem is on-going it is less likely that we will be able to accommodate the business" "Any building which is to be insured by Prudential must be in a good state of repair before it can be accepted. We would not be prepared to accept a building damaged by coal mining subsidence that had not been repaired as the property would be susceptible to damage from other causes." "We would not be willing to accept as new business a property which is currently showing signs of structural problems or is adjoining a property that has recently suffered such damage." "the information gap which can sometimes exist between insurance companies' head offices and local branches; and between insurance companies and brokers. Some brokers and local branches appear not to be sufficiently aware of the distinction between coal mining subsidence, where there is a statutory compensation scheme, and other types of subsidence where there is not. Turning to the situation of your constituent, I would suggest that she tries to contact insurance companies' head offices rather than brokers. Should she experience difficulties with the first contact point in any particular company or companies, she should, as suggested previously, enlist the help of the ABI in getting her through to more senior staff." 570 "At last a chance to obtain full Building Insurance cover on property that has previously suffered from mining subsidence." "Cover for properties which have suffered from this type of damage is very difficult to obtain. In our experience, no company will offer subsidence cover for a property which has previously suffered any kind of movement." "From the general response which I have received from the ABI, it is clear that the specific reply given by Churchill to (your constituent) is in accordance with the criteria which are being applied by the whole insurance industry. Those criteria are:—
 
 1) Companies are not prepared to insure subsidence damaged properties as new business: and. 2) existing insurers will continue cover on subsidence damaged property, and this extends to new owners where the property changes hands, provided that cover has not been allowed to lapse." 571
2.  Mr. Michael Brown : To ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland what is the Government's policy with respect to the province's 11-plus system of education. [11968]
 Mr. Brown : In view of that answer, does my hon. Friend agree that Northern Ireland's selective system of education delivers one of the highest qualities of education in the United Kingdom? Does he further agree that there is a case for considering selection throughout the kingdom? Is he aware that I went to a secondary modern school, having failed my 11-plus, and that I was able to get to university after taking my O and A-levels at that secondary modern?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : With permission, I shall put together the motions relating to delegated legislation.
 Mr. Nigel Forman  (Carshalton and Wallington) : Can my right hon. Friend find time for perhaps a small debate in the near future on the need for objective, continuous and reliable data on economic and social issues in order to develop sound policy? That would give the House an opportunity to make the case for the continuation rather than the scrapping of the general household survey.
 Mr. Nigel Forman  (Carshalton and Wallington) : Is my right hon. and learned Friend aware that all Conservative Members wish him well with his latest development of policy? It is important that we reassure consumers of food safety and of the value of the product. Can he assure the House that, in arriving at today's announcement, he and his ministerial colleagues and officials carefully considered the example of the Food and Drug Administration in the United States, to see whether any appropriate lessons could be learnt from that structure and approach? Many of my constituents would favour that model.
 Mr. Ashdown : The Prime Minister has pursued a conscientious and honourable policy in pursuing a path to peace in Northern Ireland and we have been unwavering in support of that. Does he realise that he will lose that, and much else besides, if he fails to apply rigorously, in full and now, the recommendations of the North report, which he brought into being, and jeopardises peace on the streets of Northern Ireland next summer for continuing Unionist support and a few more days in power?
 Mr. Boateng : We have had a good debate, and it is right that we should have ended on the note provided by my hon. Friend the Member for Stoke-on-Trent, North (Ms Walley), who reminded us—on the basis of
 563 "information and help to litigants" 564 "a substantial increase in the Board's Annual Budget", [Interruption.] "realistic provision made for reading time for judges". 565
 Mr. Boateng : A pale green book.
 Mr. Boateng : The hon. and learned Member for Burton (Sir I. Lawrence) mutters from a sedentary position about reducing tax allowances, so there it is: there have been 22 tax increases since the most recent general election, and the increase in court fees is just another tax. The next time my right hon. Friend the shadow Chancellor produces a briefing on Tory tax rises, we shall have to include increased court fees as a tax rise, because that is precisely what they are—a tax on the poor and the under-privileged when they seek justice. 552 Interruption.
 Mr. Boateng : I am suitably chastised, Madam Deputy Speaker, but let me point out to Conservative Members—including a new and only too happy arrival, the hon. Member for Worcester (Mr. Luff)—that we are concerned about the introduction of statutory instruments. It is only right that those instruments should be subject to the affirmative procedure, and not only in the early stages of the implementation of the proposals. The House is made up largely of lay people and should be able to bring to the consideration of matters of civil justice the common sense and practical grounding that ought to be their basis.
 Mr. Boateng : I make it clear that we have no intention of getting on with the Bill or with the proposals without
 551
 Mr. Boateng : We have no intention of getting on with it.
 Mr. Boateng : We may take it, therefore, that inquiries will by then have been made and that an answer will be given. Or perhaps there will be no answer: if there were an answer, we would have heard it
 Mr. Boateng : If it is in the budget, what will be cut to pay for it? When the Lord Chancellor was asked that question, the Government displayed a remarkable reticence about where the money would be found. The Minister's own strategy document tells us that there will be transitional costs in implementing the reforms. Is he saying that the only transitional costs will be those that he has identified today? Is that what he is saying? There is suddenly an unexplained reticence on that point.
 Mr. Boateng : The Minister has not told us where the money will come from.
 Mr. Boateng : If the Minister has done that, why has he failed, time after time, to tell us how much the Bill will cost, or how much it will cost to implement the Woolf proposals? We have given him that opportunity before, and I will give him the opportunity now. I will happily sit down and allow the Minister to tell us how much the Bill will cost.
 Mr. Boateng : The hon. Gentleman should not pretend for one moment that his concern in asking that question is anything other than pressing his own party advantage.
 Mr. Boateng : No, we know that every remark uttered by the hon. and learned Gentleman, who is a party spokesman, has a party political purpose—of course it does.
 Mr. Boateng : My hon. Friend is right. That is why not only the Law Society, the Bar Council and the Advice Services Alliance, but the National Association of Citizens' Advice Bureaux and the National Consumer Council are speaking with one voice against the Government's proposals.
 Mr. Boateng : The answer—which I give without any provocation or prompting—is that we do not intend to reverse the increases, even though we are opposed to them. We do not believe in the philosophy that underpins them, and we do not intend to carry on with that philosophy. However, the increases have been made and the budget has been set; it would therefore be quite irresponsible to reverse them, and we do not intend to do so.
 Mr. Boateng : The Minister knows that the Opposition have been absolutely clear. We have prayed against the increases in court fees and we and others have called for a cost-benefit analysis of the increases, because we are not satisfied that the increases are in the best interests of the court service and of our citizens. There is no question of maybe—I will make the position clear: we have no intention of reversing the increases, because that would pile injury on injury. Having expended the money to bring about the change, required court staff to make adjustments and budgeted for the process, there is no point in causing even greater loss to the Treasury.
 Mr. Boateng : The Minister has had his turn. I give way to my hon. Friend
 Mr. Boateng : The hon. and learned Member for Montgomery (Mr. Carlile), of whom I am very fond, and who speaks for the Liberal party, really must drag himself above the level of "Focus", his local free handout.
 Mr. Boateng   rose
 Mr. Paul Boateng  (Brent, South) : The Bill, though rightly described as modest in size, is great in its significance and in its potential impact on our civil justice system and its procedures, but perhaps even more importantly, its culture. Looking around at the limited number of Conservative, Labour and Liberal Members present, I notice a great and almost overwhelming preponderance of those with a professional interest in the matter. It would be tempting to conclude from that that the matter is largely technical and that the Bill is of interest only to lawyers, but when one considers the Woolf report, which led to the Bill, and when one examines the Bill, its significance is revealed as being altogether wider. 548
 Mr. Paul Flynn  (Newport, West) : Has the Minister studied the incident that occurred in the United States in 1989, when 37 people died and 1,500 were disabled after eating a food supplement that had been genetically modified and which contained a toxin previously unknown to science? Why has genetically modified food been mixed with other food in this country so that it cannot be identified?
 Mr. Paul Flynn  (Newport, West) : When can we debate the need to reduce the salaries of Education Ministers? It is not only in Dewsbury that Ministers appear to be demob-happy. In Newport, the local council has sought an interview with the appropriate Minister in the Welsh Office to discuss a £3 million shortfall in the education budget, which is entirely the Government's fault, but the Minister has refused to speak to the council. That is extraordinary behaviour. I assume that Ministers have cleared their desks; if they have, and are not doing their jobs, their salaries should be cut—or they should be told to carry on with their jobs.
 Mr. Paul Tyler  (North Cornwall) : The Minister has on several occasions today admitted honestly that the public perceive him his Government colleagues and his
 526
 Mr. Peter Bottomley : Does my right hon. Friend agree that one should not unfairly—or even fairly—always go back to what people put in their election addresses in the 1980s, but one might want to look at what they put in their election addresses at the last general election and then wonder how many of those policies they have reversed in the past five years?
 Mr. Peter Bottomley : Does my right hon. Friend recall that the part of Northern Ireland that experienced the greatest drop in the number of people out of work since the beginning of the temporary ceasefire was west Belfast? Will he confirm that, when the IRA goes back to killing—the way it killed Gerry McCabe, the Irish policeman, Frank Kerr, the postal worker in Newry, and many others—it is killing the job prospects of many of those who most need work, such as young Catholics in west Belfast?
 Mr. Peter Hardy  (Wentworth) : Will the Minister reflect on my experience in dealing with his Ministry on a relevant
 530
 Mr. Peter Robinson : Will the Minister join me in welcoming Shorts' announcement of 500 new jobs, to work on the new Bombardier regional jet? However, are Ministers not concerned that the beneficial effect that those jobs might have on employment figures will be undone by the revaluation of non-domestic properties—which, in some cases, will triple the rates paid by small shops and other small businesses—and that hundreds, if not thousands, of jobs could consequently be lost? Will the Government consider a transitional relief scheme so that people can move gradually to the higher rates, rather than having to endure the entire increase in one year?
5.  Mr. Gallie : To ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland what representations he has received in regard to Guardsmen Fisher and Wright, currently imprisoned in Northern Ireland. [11971]
 Mr. Gallie : I thank my right hon. Friend. Is he aware of the exemplary service given by those two young men, who were prepared to lay down their lives to protect all the citizens of Northern Ireland? Is he further aware that, in the past, two soldiers who were convicted for similar crimes were released within three and a half years? Those young men have now been in prison for four and a half years. Does my right hon. Friend not feel that enough is enough? They offer no threat to society, and it is time they came out.
 Mr. Richard Alexander  (Newark) : Does my right hon. and learned friend agree that, if he were to appoint someone with the independence, professionalism and appropriate expertise of successive chief medical officers of health, it would go a long way to reassure consumers and increase confidence? Has not that confidence been eroded in recent years by so-called food experts, who make outrageous statements, which are worked up by the media and are very difficult for him and his colleagues to disprove?
 Mr. Robert McCartney : Does the Minister think that the quite ferocious cuts in funds for the ACE—action for community employment—schemes, which are directed specifically at the long-term unemployed, are likely to assist that group of unemployed people in Northern Ireland? Does he not think that the matter ought to be reviewed and that those very valuable schemes should be supported instead of weakened?
 Mr. Robert McCartney  (North Down) : Does the Secretary of State agree that since the commencement of the peace process, dating from the Downing street declaration in December 1993, there has been a marked increase in the deterioration of community relations in Northern Ireland? Does he agree that the parades issue, for which the report is said to provide a panacea, is only a symptom of a much deeper condition, attributable to the Government's policy, which has unrealistically excited the expectations of the minority community while fuelling the anxiety—some might even say paranoia—of the
 518
 Mr. Beggs : The good news every month of falling unemployment is very welcome. We pay tribute to Baroness Denton and to the staff of the Industrial Development Board and the local enterprise development
 493
3.  Mr. Beggs : To ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland if he will make a statement on the present level of unemployment and on future employment opportunities in Northern Ireland. [11969]
 Mr. Rupert Allason  (Torbay) : Will my right hon. Friend find time to have a debate next week on extradition? Is he aware of a tragic case earlier this week? The Devon and Cornwall police had arranged for a murder suspect to be under surveillance in Australia, but the suspect committed suicide. Is he also aware of the numerous examples of the failure of other European countries to extradite terrorist suspects when there is considerable evidence against them? Is it not high time that we exposed the lack of co-operation between European Union countries on this key issue, which is of enormous importance to all our citizens?
 Mr. Seamus Mallon  (Newry and Armagh) : I compliment the North committee on the thoroughness with which, in the time available, it did a very difficult job. It did that job very well. But I must express my deep concern that the Government have taken the decision that the so-called "period of consultation" will very substantially postpone the date on which they and the House will make a decision on the matter. A decision will have to be made. Does the Secretary of State agree that there are only three options: that the Secretary of State will make the decisions; that the Chief Constable will make the decisions; or that a body, as recommended by the North committee, will make the decisions?
 Mr. Mallon : The Secretary of State will remember that, when the Prime Minister presented the proposals for multi-party talks, he assured everyone in writing that they would be real, and would meaningfully address the concerns of both communities, and that no single issue
 497
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark and Bermondsey) : First, may I acknowledge the Opposition day on Wednesday, which the Leader of the House has arranged, to which we look forward?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : To take up the first issue raised by my hon. Friend the Member for Dewsbury
 537 v.
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : Does the Minister accept that, in the view of Sir David Carter, the chief medical officer of Scotland, and Professor Pennington, some of the most useful and constructive elements on E. coli came from West Lothian council, represented by Crawford Morgan and Alec Campbell, because they had knowledge of the first major outbreak—the Red House Dairy outbreak? Will the Minister ask whoever is appointed, at a very early stage, to ask West Lothian council to present its detailed and constructive views on E. coli?
 Mr. Dalyell : Would the Minister be prepared to meet Sir David Scott-Barrett and others who have pleaded the guardsmen's case?
 Mr. Tom King  (Bridgwater) : Does my right hon. and learned Friend agree that, for those of us who have had to grapple with this most difficult and taxing of problems, there was nothing wrong with the Public Order (Northern Ireland) Order 1987, and that it could have worked perfectly well had all those concerned been willing to behave reasonably and to co-operate? Is it not the case, therefore, that any new proposals will need to command the widest possible support? In that connection, I warmly endorse the position that he has adopted, which is, I think, contrary to that of the leader of the Liberal party, who suggested that this is an occasion to ram legislation on to the statute book immediately. My right hon. and learned Friend is profoundly wise to have a brief period of consultation to see whether he can get wide support for the proposals, which will at least give them a better hope of working.
 Mr. Tony Banks  (Newham, North-West) : May I urge a little humility on the Minister when he replies to questions? After all, he has an awful lot to be humble about, in terms of his recent track record. Does he not grasp the fact that no one will believe that any food safety organisation or committee will be genuinely impartial if it must report to a Minister in a producing Department such as his? 531
 Mr. Tony Banks : May I draw the right hon. Gentleman's attention to early-day motion 447? That this House is concerned at the development of surrogate childbirth; believes that, whilst it is acceptable for surrogacy to be available in cases where natural conception and childbirth is not possible, it is unacceptable for surrogacy to be extended to commercial transactions or for the sake of personal convenience; and calls upon Her Majesty's Government to allow a full debate on the moral and ethical implications of surrogacy.
 Mr. Tony Banks  (Newham, North-West) : At least he has more hair than the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Blair : Is it not extraordinary that the Prime Minister of our country cannot even urge his party to support his own position? Weak, weak, weak, weak. I tell him that his weakness and his failure of leadership are the reason his Government are the incompetent mess they are.
 Mr. Blair : I asked the Prime Minister two questions. I said, as he himself said a few weeks ago, "Does he expect them to stand on the same manifesto?" I answer, "Yes." I then asked him, "Will he at least seek to persuade people to stand on the same manifesto?" I answer, "Yes." He is so weak and powerless, he cannot even say. He cannot even get to that— [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
 Mr. Blair : The Labour party put its manifesto to its membership and got 95 per cent. support—I doubt that
 503
 Mr. Blair : A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister said that it was essential in the national interest that our options remained open on a single currency and that he expected Conservative candidates to stand on that national manifesto. Is that still his expectation of Conservative candidates?
 Mr. Newton : I think that it is by now observable that I do my best to maintain a relatively non-partisan approach as Leader of the House. My wisest course, therefore, is to acknowledge my hon. Friend's question.
 Mr. Newton : It is probably unwise of me to do so, but I suggest that this is a matter for the Chair and not for me. In view of what I have heard since I came into the Chamber, the hon. Gentleman may improve his chances by reducing the length of his questions. I cannot add to the steer that I gave him last week. However, I express my sympathy to him for the fact that he was not called yesterday.
 Mr. Newton : The hon. Gentleman's latter point is interesting: it had not previously been drawn to my attention. As the Liberal Democrats support those Bills, that would be strange and require a bit of explaining. The hon. Gentleman will understand that it is normally thought inappropriate for Ministers in this place to comment on the progress of business in the other place.
 Mr. Newton : I am aware of the concerns that have been expressed by the people to whom the hon. Gentleman refers and, indeed, by some others. Equally, he will be clear that the concerns expressed in the other place are being carefully considered by my right hon. and learned Friend the Home Secretary, but I cannot predict what conclusions he will reach.
 Mr. Newton : These are matters of great debate and concern among a wide range of people. Such issues are normally dealt with on a free vote in the House. I shall ensure that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Health looks carefully at what the hon. Gentleman has said.
 Mr. Newton : I see no reason to accept the hon. Lady's somewhat tendentious account. Although I am aware that there seems to have been some confusion on the site this morning, I have not seen a detailed report of what occurred, and I do not propose to comment further without more information.
 Mr. Newton : The hon. Gentleman will not expect me to do other than repeat more or less what I said to the hon. Member for Dewsbury but, in the same spirit, I shall ensure that the attention of Welsh Office Ministers is drawn to their concern.
 Mr. Newton : That was a somewhat curious mix of questions and comment. I have already made such comment as I am able to at this stage in response to the hon. Member for Liverpool, Broadgreen (Mrs. Kennedy), and I do not think that I will go beyond that in response to the hon. Gentleman's ingenuity.
 Mr. Newton : I am not in a position to add to the generally sympathetic reply that I gave my hon. Friend last week. As I have already said, at present I am not able to go beyond Monday 10 February in giving an indication of business. I continue, however, to bear the wish to have such a debate very much in mind.
 Mr. Newton : I do not accept that there has been any manipulation. Independent or otherwise, the office is as capable of making mistakes as any other. This morning, the author of "Social Trends" said:
 "The original chart was incorrect … we found we had been using the wrong figures".
 Mr. Newton : Happily, those on the Liberal Benches have arranged for just such a debate next week. I look forward, subject to his catching your eye, Madam Deputy Speaker, to my hon. Friend's vigorous contribution.
 Mr. Newton : I appreciate the hon. Gentleman's strength of feeling. I must make the point, however, that it is not much more than a year since the House, after the work of a Select Committee, which I chaired, had an extensive debate and put in place the revised machinery for investigating complaints about hon. Members. The important independent ingredient—as many people thought—was injected by the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards. In the first instance, it is for the commissioner to investigate complaints and then to report to the Select Committee, which can take evidence if it wishes to do so. It would be wrong to seek to interfere with those processes in the middle of an investigation. If we sought to revise those processes substantially, that would lead only to further delay.
 Mr. Newton : I am unable to comment on the particular case to which my hon. Friend referred. I shall be happy to draw his concerns and the points that he made to the attention of my right hon. Friends.
 Mr. Newton : I rather doubt that I shall be able to find time for such a debate, but my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Transport is due to answer questions on Monday 10 February. Meanwhile, the hon. Gentleman will know that procedures are laid down in the Railways Act 1993 that cover matters such as the one that he has raised. Anyone who is aggrieved by a decision made by the Rail Regulator has a right to refer that decision to the Secretary of State for Transport, who is thus in a quasi-judicial position and would be unable now to comment on the merits or otherwise of such a case.
 Mr. Newton : That question came up last week. I shall not seek to add to the comments that I made at that time. I note my hon. Friend's question as, I am sure, will my right hon. Friend who is responsible for these matters.
 Mr. Newton : It is five years since I was responsible for the detailed administration of the cold weather payments scheme and, given the hon. Gentleman's question, I am relieved about that. I shall ensure that those of my right hon. Friends who are currently responsible for the scheme have their attention draw to the hon. Gentleman's point.
 Mr. Newton : I think that I might reveal that my right hon. Friend had already marked my card on that matter. He did so less formally last night. In my usual way, I offered a cautious but sympathetic reply. I shall offer again this afternoon, more formally, a cautious but sympathetic reply.
 Mr. Newton : The hon. Lady will not be surprised to learn that I, like other hon. Members, welcomed the measured and balanced way in which Madam Speaker commented on Monday on behalf of the House on an issue about which we all feel strongly. Understandably, the hon. Lady asked me, as Chairman of the Select Committee on Standards and Privileges—she is a distinguished member of that body—to confirm that the Committee is making every effort to conclude consideration of the various matters before us. I certainly confirm that—with the wholehearted support of all Committee members. The Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards is also playing an active role. Many of the matters are complex and extremely important and they must be considered properly, but we shall proceed with all possible speed. 535
 The Lord President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mr. Tony Newton) : I should like to make a statement about the business for next week: Official Report. Official Report. Monday 3 February—Relevant Reports: Local Government Finance Report (England) 1997–98; Special Grant Report (No. 23); Limitation of Council Tax and Precepts (Relevant Notional Amounts) Report (England) 1997–98. Wednesday 5 February—Relevant Reports: Local Government Finance Report (Wales) 1997–98; Special Grant Report (Wales) 1997; Limitation of Council Tax (Relevant Notional Amounts) Report (Wales) 1997–98. Wednesday 12 February: European Standing Committee A—Relevant European Community Document: 5217/97, Commission Report on Raw Tobacco Relevant European Legislation Committee Report: HC 36-xi (1996–97). European Standing Committee B—Relevant European Community Document: 5147/96. Takeover Bids. Relevant European Legislation Committee Reports: HC 51-xxix (1995–96) and HC 51-xiv (1995–96).]
 Mr. Worthington : Can the Minister assure an incoming Labour Government that there will be money to run the education system that he has described? It is already known that the education and library boards are heading for a deficit of millions of pounds. There was supposed to be £8 million in the budget for nursery provision. That has disappeared. Some £2 million was to be saved by the change in education and library boards. What has happened to that money? Is it in the budget? What will be the cost of incorporation of the further education colleges, on which the Government have already spent £1 million and have not passed the legislation? In area after area, such as in school transport, there are supposed to be savings. There are some great black holes in the Northern Ireland education budget. Will the Minister open the books and tell us what is happening?
8.  Mr. William Ross : To ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland what steps he has taken since 1 January to eradicate BSE from the beef herd in Northern Ireland and to have the ban on beef exports lifted. [11974]
 Mr. Ross : That is all very well as far as it goes, but will the Secretary of State give an assurance that there will be no delay by the Government in introducing a workable certified herds scheme in Northern Ireland, and that, when the cull takes place, there will be immediate EC verification, and Northern Ireland will not have to wait until the rest of the United Kingdom carries out its cull?
 Mr. William Ross  (East Londonderry) : The Secretary of State drew attention to the interview given by the former Chief Constable. Is the right hon. and learned Gentleman aware that some of us were surprised by the Chief Constable's attitude, but that we have listened with stunned amazement to statements today that the security forces should not be piggy in the middle? It was my impression that we maintained the army and police to be piggy in the middle to protect the law-abiding from the violent, armed conspiracy of the IRA. Is the Secretary of State not yet aware that, until he faces up to the fact that the IRA is committed to ensuring that there is no community agreement, and acts accordingly, he will be in constant trouble over marches? When will he live in the real world instead of the fantasy world that is detailed in the report?
 Mrs. Ann Taylor  (Dewsbury) : In view of Madam Speaker's statement on Tuesday—which was widely welcomed on both sides of the House—about Parliament being brought into disrepute by sleaze allegations involving a small number of hon. Members, will the Lord President, in his capacity as Chairman of the Select Committee on Standards and Privileges, confirm to the House that that Committee and the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards are working flat out to try to
 534 Yorkshire Evening Post "bus services will never improve while profits are put ahead of customers"
 Mrs. Margaret Ewing  (Moray) : I have listened carefully to the Minister. Who will have the final say as to who is appointed to the council? Will it be the fiefdom of Sir Kenneth Calman, a highly regarded individual, or will there be a ministerial input as to who will serve on the council? Who will pay for the council, and what is the estimated budget?
 Mrs. Fyfe : I thank the Secretary of State for that answer. Will he say whether he has noticed the fact that 65 hon. Members have today signed early-day motion 461 which calls for a re-examination of the events of Bloody Sunday? Does he agree that an honest and open re-examination of those events could only help the peace process?
4.  Mrs. Fyfe : To ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland if he will make a statement on the latest position with the peace process. [11970]
 Mrs. Jane Kennedy  (Liverpool, Broadgreen) : Notwithstanding the debate on education that is due to take place next week, will the Leader of the House arrange for the Minister of State, Department for Education and Employment—the hon. Member for Mid-Worcestershire (Mr. Forth)—to make a statement in the House to explain the extraordinary events that took place earlier today? He was unceremoniously ordered off the premises of one of the country's leading grammar schools, Wirral grammar school for girls, when his by-election stunt went disastrously wrong. Given that that Minister is responsible for security and discipline in our schools, he has shown himself to be manifestly unfit to represent the Government.
 Ms Jean Corston  (Bristol, East) : Can the Minister tell the House why it has taken the Government so long to announce the setting up of such a puny and inadequate body in response to concerns that go beyond BSE, E. coli and baby milk, and encompass issues such as Alar in apple juice, salmonella in eggs, organophosphates in root vegetables, listeria in cheese—the list goes on? Does he not understand that a part-time food safety adviser is no substitute for an independent food standards agency to reassure the public, particularly people who are bringing up children and want to do the best for them, and to enforce the rights of consumers to enjoy the best standards of food hygiene and safety?
 Ms Joan Walley  (Stoke-on-Trent, North)   rose
 Ms Walley : Does my hon. Friend agree that it is not simply that people have to pay £10 to attempt to get justice through a county court, but that they may have to apply five or six times at £10 each time? That is what concerns people who are being denied justice. The Minister laughed when my hon. Friend referred to that.
 Ms Joan Walley  (Stoke-on-Trent, North) : Unlike many hon. Members who have spoken this evening, I do not have a professional interest in the subject. I must take issue with my very good—and hon.—Friend the Member for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson) and say that, as well as being discussed by those with a professional interest, the issue of access to the criminal justice system for everyone should be considered by other hon. Members, because access to social justice is extremely important. That is the impression that I get from the many constituents who attend my surgeries. 562
 Miss Hoey : Does the Minister agree that intimidation of witnesses can occur in cases of stalking? Why is the Protection from Harassment Bill not to apply to Northern
 500
 Rev. Ian Paisley : I am sure that the Secretary of State will bear in mind that there have been bloody Mondays, bloody Tuesdays, bloody Wednesdays, bloody Thursdays, bloody Fridays and bloody Saturdays. What does he think of the attitude of IRA-Sinn Fein, who mouthed to the media about a peace process when their colleagues entered a sick children's hospital and tried to kill a colleague of mine and put a bullet through a baby's incubator? Will he investigate what happened two nights ago, when a crowd inside and outside that hospital rioted because the police tried to arrest a person who was hijacking a car?
 Rev. Ian Paisley  (North Antrim) : Does the Secretary of State think that, because of the seriousness of the matter, he should meet the leaders of all parties in the House and further discuss the matter because, as the hon. Member for Redcar said, if we do not get it right this time, in years to come, we will reap? I remind the House that we are reaping today. We are reaping the Public
 514 Belfast Telegraph
 Rev. Martin Smyth  (Belfast, South) : Will the Secretary of State clarify some doubt in my mind? Was there a degree
 519
 Rev. Martin Smyth : While I share the Secretary of State's confidence in our education system and appreciate that selection could come a year later, does he accept that
 492
 Rev. William McCrea : Will the Secretary of State join me in congratulating the farmers of Northern Ireland on their courage and determination during the BSE crisis? Does he agree that Northern Ireland should be given special status in Europe as a priority, because of its excellent beef, and that that could be the way in which the United Kingdom as a whole could get out of the present mess concerning BSE in Europe?
 Sir Patrick Cormack : Does my right hon. and learned Friend agree that the majority of people throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland are concerned most of all about the integrity of that United Kingdom, and that they would be well advised to have regard to that fact when deciding who to vote for in any election, at any time?
 Sir Patrick Cormack  (South Staffordshire) : Is my right hon. Friend yet in a position to say anything about a debate on the integrity of the United Kingdom? May I draw his attention to early-day motion 464, and express the hope that the Government will give a speedy passage to the British Nationality (Hong Kong) Bill, which would protect the rights of ethnic minorities in Hong Kong, and which has completed all its stages in another place? That this House welcomes the passage of the British Nationality (Hong Kong) Bill through the House of Lords; and urges Her Majesty's Government to ensure the speedy completion of its remaining stages so that approximately 5000 ethnic minority non-Chinese living in Hong Kong can apply for British citizenship and the right of abode in the United Kingdom as a recognition of their contribution to the life of Hong Kong and their loyalty to the Crown, and in order to give them the same degree of security as those who have either full British citizenship or Chinese nationality.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : It is true that a large majority of people living in Northern Ireland, let alone throughout the rest of the United Kingdom, strongly support the maintenance of the Union, which, as the Prime Minister has frequently said and as I am glad to endorse, gives added strength to each of the regions comprising the United Kingdom. As far as I can see, there is no prospect of people changing their minds about that in what people are pleased to call the foreseeable future.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I pay tribute to the assiduity with which the hon. Gentleman has pursued his anxieties with me and with the chief electoral officer about personation and other frauds. It is true that he has seen me on a number of occasions. I have met other representatives of his party, who have also met the chief electoral officer. My officials are considering ways of combating alleged instances of fraud, some of which I am certain do exist. Intimidation plays a big part in them. We can have the legislation, but, for it to work, people have to be free of intimidation, and we all know who is doing the intimidating.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for drawing attention to the register. Northern Ireland has a peculiar advantage in that, largely, the registration process depends not upon postal returns but upon personal canvassing. As a consequence, it is widely thought that the register is more accurate than registers in many areas of Great Britain. The computer forms are collected by canvassers from each household. Of course, when people move, there are opportunities for personation. I have taken care to see that each and every one of the representations in this regard by hon. Members has been brought to the attention of the chief electoral officer. I repeat what I have said in the past: that intimidation and profoundly undemocratic attitudes on the part of Sinn Fein and particular others are responsible for electoral fraud.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I am always ready, of course, to consider any particulars that are put to me, but part of the purpose of the talks process in which we are so laboriously engaged is to come through to an agreed political settlement that is based on consent, which will undoubtedly find a better way of governing Northern Ireland than exists under direct rule. That applies in particular to local government.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : If the people of Northern Ireland feel so strongly about the numerous matters with which the hon. Gentleman began his question, it is interesting that I have not received a single representation about them, which suggests that perhaps his research is not as profound as it usually is. As to moving the election date, it would be better to stay with the legislation that we have, but to do all in our power to make it work properly.
 The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland (Sir Patrick Mayhew) : I have received general representations about personation at elections in Northern Ireland; otherwise none.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I very much agree with what the hon. Gentleman says about the quality of Northern Ireland's beef. I am glad to say that that is evidenced by special contracts made by major importers and suppliers in Great Britain, in full recognition of the special quality of our beef, which in part derives from our electronic tracing scheme, which has been in place for the past eight years. Any scheme proposed on behalf of the United Kingdom will be a United Kingdom scheme, but it will undoubtedly be one from which Northern Ireland producers will be the first to benefit, for that reason.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I can give the assurance that the selective cull will proceed quickly and will not take long, because it will not apply to a large number of animals. The certified herds scheme which will shortly be introduced by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food on behalf of all the Agriculture Departments in the United Kingdom will be the result of a consultation exercise that has recently been completed.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : The Government continue to take all steps recommended by the Spongiform Encephalopathy Advisory Committee to eradicate BSE. That includes the recent implementation of the selective cull. The United Kingdom will shortly submit formal proposals for a certified herds scheme to the European Commission.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : We do not anticipate failing in our application for a United Kingdom certified herds scheme, because the case for it will be overwhelming. It will be put forward on behalf of the UK as a necessary step to give effect to the Florence agreement.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : The first part of my reply to the hon. Member for Islington, North (Mr. Corbyn) showed that I endorse what the hon. Gentleman says about previous outrages. Violence, from whatever quarter, is to be condemned. The Government and all people of decent mind unfailingly do so. "A fresh opportunity for peace." 496
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I recall the paper to which the hon. Gentleman refers. It is, unhappily, beginning to be clear that Sinn Fein is unwilling to make the declared commitment to exclusively peaceful purposes that is the passport to the talks required of all parties. Nevertheless, it is necessary to proceed by consent within the rules of procedure agreed in the talks process. It has been necessary, in our judgment, to try to find an agreed solution to the problems of decommissioning arms. That is why we have taken so long over it. I know that the hon. Gentleman is impatient and wants to get to the substance. We should also like to get to the substance. We shall continue our efforts to find a way to do so by consent when we resume next week.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I do not think that the general election has anything to do with the nature of the solution. The hon. Gentleman asked me what steps the two Governments can take to ensure that we move now into the substance. It is not within the power of the two Governments to ensure that we move now into the substance because that step has to be made in circumstances and on conditions that achieve sufficient agreement among the participants. There has been no change in the British Government's position since the time to which he referred. We have always made it clear, with the Irish Government, that those who will take part in the process of talks will be those who declare and show themselves to be wholly and exclusively committed to peaceful and democratic principles and methods. That is, of course, the significance of the decommissioning issue, which has proved, and is continuing to prove, so troublesome.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : Of course I know of my hon. Friend's concern and have seen the paper that he has recently published on the subject. Very manifest difficulties are involved in investigating afresh something that occurred 25 years ago, however serious it may be and tragic its consequences. However, I repeat that, if from whatever quarter fresh evidence of real substance is presented, it will be received and examined properly and thoroughly. We need no encouragement from sources outside, however distinguished, to do that.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I endorse what the hon. Lady said at the beginning of her remarks and her concern that people do not stay in rigid positions to the exclusion of sensible opportunities to make progress in the talks.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : My hon. Friend points to something of great importance. We have to look forward. An immensely long and very controversial history of course affects the whole of Ireland, but we must not be governed by it. I repeat that a full inquiry was conducted by the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, but if
 498
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I pay tribute to the interest of the United States of America, and of course to the interest of the Government of the Republic of Ireland. In my view, the effect of American interest has been especially beneficial, with the chairmanship of Senator Mitchell and the President's encouragement. There is, however, no substitute for people coming to agreement. Imposition is not a very helpful concept when we are considering future political arrangements for Northern Ireland. Unless we are to continue with direct rule, people must come to agreement through their representatives. We must continue to press for that, however long it takes.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : Participants returned to the multi-party talks, initially for bilateral discussions, on
 495
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : The events of Bloody Sunday constituted a tragedy—there is no doubt about that. That tragedy was investigated by Lord Chief Justice Widgery. If there is any substantial fresh evidence, it should be submitted to the authorities where it will receive full and proper consideration.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I recognise that, in the history of Ireland—Northern Ireland and the Republic—many grievous events have occurred that live long in people's memories. I do not regard that as a matter of criticism, although I wish that people looked forward as vigorously as they sometimes look back. If there is fresh evidence in Mr. Mullin's book, I find it surprising that it was not first submitted to the authorities, if it was thought to be of significance. That should happen now that the book has been published. Any fresh evidence will receive proper consideration.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : The Chief Constable gave a very full account of the events of July and his part in them when he gave an extended interview on BBC radio to Mr. Barry Cowan. It is worth while looking at that. I am pretty sure that I ensured that a transcript was put in the Library, but if I did not, I shall see to it that one is put there.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : The hon. Gentleman's second proposition does not follow, and I am afraid that the first really shows that he is a subscriber to the Red Queen style of making decisions: verdict first, evidence afterwards.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I have had some part in enforcing the rule of law in Northern Ireland since I first became Solicitor-General about 14 years ago, so I endorse the importance of that. I have always held it to be a prime responsibility of the Government. I am not going to get drawn into any evaluation of the merits of the proposal that the commission shall decide these matters. I think that it would be wrong to do so. I want to see what advice is offered. It is a matter of record that the last Chief Constable said that he was fed up with the police having to make decisions in such circumstances. It does not follow from that that it would be wrong or right to endorse the proposal that has been put forward. We want to hear people's views.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I do not mind being criticised for what I have said, but I take mild exception to being criticised for what I have not said. I have not said that the security forces should not be piggy in the middle, as the hon. Gentleman put it. Of course it is their unpleasant and dangerous job, if hostilities break out, to keep the peace, and that means being in the middle. We have to discover the best means of ensuring that the security forces do not get engaged in occasions that can take place with enjoyment and peacefully, as the report points out.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I thought that I had heard what the hon. Gentleman had to say. He carried some responsibilities for these affairs until he was relieved of them. I prefer to take the advantage of two months' consultation, which would, particularly with good will, leave time for any
 520
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : That solution is one that can perfectly properly be suggested in the consultation period that I am offering. It is at one end of the spectrum. The hon. Gentleman questions whether the report tells us anything new, but that depends on what one has believed in the past. The trouble with objective truths is that people tend to resist the suggestion that they are true by reference to whichever person happens to be uttering them. The report in any event provides an independent voice to set out matters that we may have known already; at least it is independent and cannot be charged with partisan desires to distort.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : When one looks back at the events of last summer, one can see examples of atrocious behaviour among both sides of the community. A member of the RUC on duty at that time would not have distinguished much difference in unpleasantness between what was thrown by one side or the other. It is in the light of that reflection that we need to look forward. Of course we have to take account of the events of last summer: were it not for those events, this body might not have been asked to do the job that it has been given. We have the report and we should do our best to assess the merits of what it recommends and then take appropriate action.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his remarks. The ideal is not to be criticised from both sides of the spectrum, but to be applauded from both sides. However, if one is so criticised, one can take some comfort from the possibility that one has got it right, and I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for inferring that he thinks that we have. The trigger is a difficult one. Someone suggested to me that there is a danger that one is simply creating a factory for grievances. We do not want to do that. The report makes it clear that in the vast majority of parades it would not be appropriate for the commission to be involved. One of the functions of the consultation period is to consider the appropriate trigger.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : Of course I recall the meeting to which the hon. Gentleman refers. I also recall his genuine concern and the helpful way in which he always approaches such matters. It is a matter of judgment: I believe that less than two months would not be realistic if one wants seriously to test opinion and to use the results in a helpful way. It is essential that whatever we do should carry the best prospect of acceptability, and that will be the case if we have a tightly focused, time-limited two-month period of consultation on that aspect of the report.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : We can argue whether it should be one month, six weeks, two months, three months or whatever. It is left at large and one has to make a judgment. Of course I do not intend to consult everyone who appears in appendix 1. I have said that it is right for public representatives and those who lead bodies that are directly interested in the subject to express their views on that aspect of the commission's report. There was a time when most people, not least in the Liberal party, thought that it was rather a good thing to take soundings. That is what I wish to do. I do not wish to incur the additional charge that I am adopting, hook, line and sinker and without even a couple of months of consultation a radical departure that also has certain constitutional connotations. If I did not adopt this course, it would be a charge properly brought.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I am grateful for the hon. Gentleman's welcome for aspects of what I have said, and can move to his following points. He asks whether conciliation and adjudication are not very different concepts. Of course that is correct—they are. One of the objections to the present jurisdiction of the Chief Constable under the legislation is that he is both the decider of the issue, after attempts to conciliate and to find a local agreement, and thereafter the enforcer. That point was made by many people, apparently, to the commission. The hon. Gentleman's point as to whether the one can be done properly together with the other by the same body is a proper matter for consultation. It is one of the issues that will necessarily be discussed in the period that I have described.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I am grateful for the compliment, which I am glad to endorse, paid by the hon. Gentleman to the quality of the report and to those who
 516 "No doubt there will be a period of consultation".
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I agree with the hon. Gentleman that this is a serious matter. We must get it right, and it must be approached in a serious way. It would not be approached seriously if we implemented the report without giving people the opportunity of the character that I have described to express their opinions about the report's recommendations. I gladly give an undertaking
 515
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I very much agree with my right hon. Friend. He has carried these responsibilities, and I am certain that he is right to point to the pre-eminent importance of getting the will to co-operate, or local agreement. Legislation can play a part, but it can be no substitute for the desire for a sensible and workable means to be achieved whereby the competing rights can be properly balanced. I very much welcome my right hon. Friend's approval for the period of consultation that we propose.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I do not wish to depart from what I said in the statement, but the Government do not express an opinion one way or the other on what I might call the adjudicatory recommendations of the commission. It is self-evident—every hon. Member will agree—that there is a duty on all who wish to undertake a march or who wish to protest against such a march to co-operate with the relevant authorities.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : No. I am rather disappointed by that contribution from the hon. and learned Gentleman. I do not think that it is factually right that a deterioration in community relations can be observed from the time of the Downing street declaration at the end of 1993. I think that the reverse is the case. There has, unfortunately, been a sharp worsening of community relations since the events of last summer. There is no doubt about that. Everybody that I know of agrees that there has been an increased polarisation and an increase in fear and bad relations between the two sides of the community.
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : After nearly five years in this job, I see considerable sense in being generally rather cautious. Equally, there are circumstances when it is important to take hold of an issue and drive it. That is why I have thought it right to embrace and endorse straight away the non-adjudicatory recommendations of the report. It is right that there should be a commission. Naturally, we will want to see how best we can implement some of the matters that fall within that limb of the report. Therefore, whereas the more cautious approach might be to say that we shall consult about the whole boiling. I believe it to be right to take the course that we are taking in that regard.
 The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland (Sir Patrick Mayhew) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I will make a statement about the report of the independent review of parades and marches in Northern Ireland, which was published this morning in Belfast. 508 "our shared view" "that the way to the complete resolution of the issue is through the community working together in search of mutual accommodation." 509 510
 Sir Patrick Mayhew : I am grateful to the hon. Lady for her concluding remarks. I gladly pay tribute to her party for the co-operation that it has given the Government in carrying out responsibilities that transcend party political tactics and matters of party political significance. 512 "No doubt there will be a period of consultation." "We are well aware that it is for the Government to take a view on how far it wishes to adopt our recommendations."
 Sir Peter Emery  (Honiton) : Will my right hon. and learned Friend accept that the majority of hon. Members who look at this matter sensibly will accept that it is right and proper that steps should be taken to ensure that public confidence can, at all times, be restored in the way in which the bodies he announced will set out to do? It does little credit to the Opposition when they attempt to turn this into a political slanging match. Will he give an assurance, however, that it is not the intention that the measures announced should be a criticism of the agriculture industry, whose members have striven so hard to try to rectify the problems in the past?
 Sir Peter Emery  (Honiton) : During next week, will my right hon. Friend recall the statement made by our right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, supported by those on the Opposition Front Bench, about the need to work for simplification of tax law? Will he consider that the Procedure Committee has now reported on a procedure that should, perhaps, be used to bring about simplification? Will my right hon. Friend consult the Opposition spokesman to ascertain whether a debate can be held—and perhaps action taken—fairly soon to ensure that that procedure is in place so that the work on simplification can proceed immediately in a new Parliament?
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Second Reading what day?
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (Colchester, North) : I do not wish to detain the House long because there has been an extensive and most interesting debate. The contribution of my hon. Friend the Member for Gainsborough and Horncastle (Mr. Leigh) was no exception. He dissected many of the legal uncertainties that we may be opening up for ourselves.
 Mr. Jenkin : That is an important point, but I do not think that, when sovereign states entered into those obligations, they expected jurisprudential interpretation to be manipulated in the way that it has been. My right hon.
 622
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (Colchester, North) : I may be at risk of making a party point—although I merely follow the hon. Gentleman's lead when he made a party distinction about the sponsors of the Bill—but it seems to me that any reluctance to sponsor a Bill designed to crack down on terrorism is entirely consistent with the views of some of the IRA sympathisers on the Opposition Benches and the Opposition's regular opposition to the prevention of terrorism Acts.
 Mr. Alfred Morris  (Manchester, Wythenshawe) : Noting the Whip's objection, Friday 7 February.
 Mr. Alfred Morris  (Manchester, Wythenshawe) : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Morris : Will the Minister give way on that point?
 Mr. Alun Michael  (Cardiff, South and Penarth) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Eastbourne (Mr. Waterson) on his success in promoting the Bill. It is understandable that he seeks to tackle violence and
 623 624 625 "in this century crime has ceased to be largely local in origin and effect. Crime is now established on an international scale, and the common law must face this new reality." "it would not be a great step to provide by legislation that a conspiracy here to commit a crime abroad should also be triable here, at any rate in the field of terrorism". 626
 Mr. Michael : I understand the point that the Minister makes, and it is obvious that his priority is what hon. Members on both sides of the House would want it to be, but the problem is that there is unease about the way in which the Crown Prosecution Service interprets the public interest. Hon. Members on both sides of the House, and the public, are anxious that a mechanism is in place to ensure that the measure is used as intended.
 Mr. Alun Michael  (Cardiff, South and Penarth) : I, too, will be brief because I hope that the Bill can make progress. I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Paisley, North (Mrs. Adams), who spoke tellingly today because she spoke from experience—both her experience of dealing with individuals and the experience of her constituents. She may have been tempted to introduce a Bill on the regulation of the private security industry in view of one of the points she made. Such cases are the reason why we have said for a long time that there is a need for regulation of that industry and of those who run it, not just those who are employed in it. My hon. Friend made her remarks effectively. 641 "in all other ways they are given the support and encouragement that many will need when undergoing the daunting and sometimes distressing experience of appearing in court." "Witnesses may find the publicity, or threat of it, surrounding their appearance in the witness box a powerful disincentive to giving evidence."
 Mr. Michael : I am grateful to the hon. and learned Gentleman for giving way, because he has come to the kernel of getting the balance right. Unless I have misread the Bill, the protection to which he refers is not in the Bill and would not necessarily apply to the powers provided by the Bill.
 Mr. Michael : My hon. Friend is getting into an interesting area, and the contribution of the hon. Member for Harrow, East (Mr. Dykes) is helpful, because those factors would clearly have to be taken into account if they were available to the court. We must also consider the balance between what the Bill—essentially a Government-written Bill—says, and the way in which it is to be used. Perhaps the Minister will say something about that.
 Mr. Michael : The hon. Gentleman is making a thoughtful response to the questions raised by my hon. Friend the Member for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson), but is not the difficulty that the answer to those questions do not lie in the Bill, which, in a sense, is straightforward? The answers lie, first, in the context of the Bill's use—how the Government will use it—and, secondly, in the international community and how it provides protections for people's liberties throughout the world. It is not surprising that the Bill itself does not provide all the answers to my hon. Friend's thoughtfully posed questions.
 Mr. Michael : If the hon. Gentleman wants to lengthen his speech with knockabout, may I remind him that many issues that the Government now support were first proposed by the Opposition and voted down by the Government? That is the fact on law and order.
 Mr. Michael : Will the hon. Gentleman clarify that point? I know this is knockabout, but it sounds as though the hon. Gentleman said something which I believe he would not intend. He surely does not regard it as a freedom to be able to abuse children abroad.
 Mr. Michael : The hon. Gentleman should contrast the weakness and ineffectiveness of the present Prime
 594
 Mr. Michael : I understand the hon. Gentleman's point. He is a lawyer, so he may be able to help us. As I understand it, the distinction that he draws is not drawn in the Bill—indeed, I do not see how it could be. He said that judgments should not be made on acts of violence abroad, but what of the situation when communication is made with people involved in acts in other countries, and who may be politically involved? We can think of all sorts of examples, such as the period covering the establishment of the state of Israel, where the act in this country of communicating with people who might be involved in politics, but not themselves in violence, might technically come under the Bill. Does not that require a context to the Bill to ensure, as I am sure the Minister and everyone else wants, that it is used for the purposes for which it is intended, not those that go beyond that intention?
 Mr. Michael : I am sorry to intervene again, but it is an important point. The Minister's intervention was very helpful. If I understood him correctly, the Minister said that the message was irrelevant. As my hon. Friend the Member for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson) said, a message of support for political activity could be interpreted as a message of support for closer association. There is an element of interpretation, and the House must be clear about its intentions.
 Mr. Alun Michael  (Cardiff, South and Penarth) : That was a petty, nasty and objectionable intervention from the hon. Member for Colchester, North (Mr. Jenkin), and it was out of kilter with the Prime Minister's remarks only yesterday, when he referred to the consensual support that he has received from the Opposition on Northern Ireland. My hon. Friend is right to say that the hon. Gentleman's intervention is not worthy of comment: it was contemptible.
 The Minister of State, Home Office (Mr. David Maclean) : I thank the hon. Member for Paisley, North (Mrs. Adams) for introducing the Bill. The Government recognise and have great sympathy with the concerns that she seeks to address. I also pay tribute to her personal bravery and courage over the past few years in standing up to some of the drug barons who are making life a misery for her constituents in Paisley and surrounding areas. "It is necessary only for the good man to do nothing for evil to triumph." 643
 Mr. Maclean : I am sorry, but I have only six minutes left. 644 645
 Mr. Maclean : The hon. Lady has introduced an important Bill and I must put the Government's position on record. I do not have much time.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : The problem is that the Crown Prosecution Service might not have access to the best political advice. The Minister has already said that the United States has an anti-terrorism law, but it is inconceivable that that law would be invoked against, for example, people in the United States who conspired against the regime of Saddam Hussein in respect of what might be deemed terrorist acts. What is the constraint in this country in respect of such matters and who will exercise it? Will it be the Crown Prosecution Service or will it be the Attorney-General? There must be some other hurdle to surmount in respect of so-called terrorist offences.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : I am glad that the hon. and learned Gentleman acknowledges the problem and that he has tried honestly to put forward a solution in the form of the additional hurdle of the Attorney-General's agreement. The problem with that is this: as we know, the Attorney-General has a quasi-independent position vis-a-vis the Government and that degree of independence would not be perceived by other jurisdictions. The effect would be that someone perceived as being a member of our Government would be giving a judgment on the nature of a Government overseas. In the case of some tyrannical regimes, we would be happy about that; but there are other regimes in the middle. However, it may be that, in response to this problem, either the Attorney-General or some other means, such as a code of conduct, might be found to at least seek to protect those whom the hon. and learned Gentleman and I probably agree should be protected from the excessive ambit of this Bill.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : I am reminded of the problems in the American courts with the definition of political offence and its application to members of the IRA.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : Like many other sovereign states, this country has signed a number of international obligations that limit our national sovereignty.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : The war crimes legislation.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : Does the Minister also mean a message of support?
 Mr. Donald Anderson : Let me offer another analogy. I came across a quotation recently from a leader of the French resistance, which was bombing trains bringing supplies to the Nazis in occupied France during the second world war. He proudly said, "We are terrorists." The activities of the resistance were offences in occupied France; some regimes are so tyrannical that the definition of terrorism is not straightforward. I hope that the hon. Gentleman will agree that it is more difficult than the definition of sex exploitation.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : I do not think that such a pamphlet, although very wrong, would come within the ambit of the Bill, because no substantive offence would have been committed in an overseas country. It is a general exhortation.
 Mr. Anderson : I am not sure how much a judge would be able or want to vary sentence on such mitigation factors, because that would be to exercise a political judgment on which countries are or are not desirable. A judge would be reluctant to be involved in such judgments.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : The hon. Gentleman rightly said that sexual exploitation is wrong and is deemed to be wrong by everyone. There is no moral dispute about that. However, we are in a different world when it comes to the word "terrorism" because it is a loaded word that can be interpreted differently by different people.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : Think before you speak.
 Mr. Anderson : I hear what the Minister says. I hope that he concedes that there is a real problem in restricting or confining those whom we believe to be working together against tyrannical regimes. That could be the effect of the Bill, and it would be wholly counter to our traditions. In the 19th century we harboured those who were regarded by their own countries as troublemakers or terrorists.
 Mr. Anderson : The anti-apartheid movement, of which I was proud to be a part, fully supported the liberation movements, the African National Congress and the Pan African Congress, which as a result of the unwillingness of that oppressive regime to listen to them were forced reluctantly along the road to limited violence, which could be construed as terrorism and could have been brought within the ambit of the Bill. That is the message that I should like to leave the House with. The points that I have made have to be raised as part of a wider debate so that a reasonable consensus can be achieved to combat terrorism without undermining our tradition of dissent.
 Mr. Anderson : I agree with the Minister that there is a real problem. The hon. Member for Harrow, East (Mr. Dykes) and I are senior officers of the all-party group on France and we understand the deep anxiety of the French Government that Algerian terrorists who carry out atrocities on French soil can find sanctuary here. Mr. Pasqua, who is not the most liberal of French politicians, was recently quoted as being highly critical of the British attitude in that respect.
 Mr. Anderson : I have no doubt that that is true. I was saying that there was a constituency in France articulated by Mr. Pasqua, the former Interior Affairs Minister, which was highly critical of the alleged readiness of the British Government to harbour terrorists. I am sure that at operational level the position is mightily different from that which he has set out, perhaps for his own political reasons. 588
 Mr. Anderson : It is not, with respect, a proper interpretation of my remarks. I am thinking aloud and saying that certain acts which could be construed as terrorist acts fall far short of murdering innocent citizens. I mentioned Mr. Mandela and the blowing up of electricity pylons, which could have been caught under the terms of the Bill. We should be aware of what could happen and the wide terms in which the Bill is drafted.
 Mr. Anderson : The dual criminality rule would cover the electricity pylons. My concern is that the generality of the Bill gives a tang of the divine right of kings; the suggestion that a Government, however tyrannical, however they came to power and however they override their opponents, must be protected against any acts which may be the desperate acts of individuals. I confess that I do not see how we can achieve legislatively the drawing of a line between those countries and other countries. The nature of the Bill effectively endorses the powers that be throughout the world.
 Mr. Anderson : No. With all due respect, the hon. Gentleman's first contribution was such that I am reluctant to yield to him.
 Mr. Anderson : I accept that explanation, but the lack of Opposition sponsors still raises some questions. I do not oppose the Bill as such, but I intend to respond to the hon. Gentleman's invitation to debate the issue of international terrorism and to raise questions that trouble me. I hope that those questions will also trouble others who consider the Bill and have to tackle this increasing problem in today's world.
 Mr. Anderson : I hope that I did not use the phrase, "a little bit of terrorism". I said that, whereas sex tourism is absolute and one can agree on that, terrorism is a loaded word. As I said, one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter, so we are dealing with a world of greys rather than absolutes. That is why I used the analogy of Nelson Mandela.
 Mr. Anderson : That may be one effect of the moves that have just been agreed at the United Nations—I am not sure whether the new UN agreement is retrospective. I certainly share the hon. Gentleman's concern about the activities of Dr. al-Masari and would need to consider carefully whether, because of his conduct, he deserves to be here. We may come to a different conclusion when we study the relevant facts. The Sunday Times "World Trade Center bombing suspect 'stole' identity of Swansea student." 584 "a party to the agreement, or a party's agent, did anything in England and Wales in relation to the agreement before its formation". "Any act done by means of a message (however communicated) is to be treated for the purposes of the fourth condition as done in England and Wales". "There have also been statutory moves in the same direction"— "see Criminal Law Act 1993, not yet in force, and the Sexual Offences (Conspiracy and Incitement) Act 1996, which gives UK courts jurisdiction in respect of persons conspiring to commit relevant offences abroad. So it would not be a great step to provide by legislation that a conspiracy here to commit a crime abroad should also be triable here, at any rate in the field of terrorism where international co-operation is so vital." 585
 Mr. Anderson : To return to the analogy of President Mandela, blowing up an electricity pylon would be an offence here as well as in South Africa, and the sentence that a judge would impose would not be to say to the young Nelson Mandela, "Well, we understand you, it's the sort of thing that I would do in your place, because South Africa is a repressive regime and, after all, you tried to act in a peaceful way and you've been forced into this terrorism." It would probably, in fact, be a five to 10-year sentence. "it would not be a great step to provide by legislation that a conspiracy here to commit a crime abroad should also be triable here,"
 Mr. Anderson : It was also out of spirit with the reasonable speech made by the hon. Member for Eastbourne, and I am sure that he would repudiate it in the Corridors. The hon. Member for Colchester, North (Mr. Jenkin) has obviously been busy reading that well-known American book, "How to influence people without making friends", in preparation for the election.
 Mr. Anderson : Having served with the hon. Gentleman on the Home Affairs Committee, I have no doubt about his deep interest in the subject and I am sure that his contribution will be wholly reasonable. Given that
 583 "in this century crime has ceased to be largely local in origin and effect. Crime is now established on an international scale, and the common law must face this new reality." The Observer "we use London as a base for terrorism and source of funds".
 Mr. Anderson : That was a wholly disgraceful intervention. My party has acted in a bipartisan way on Northern Ireland, as have the Liberal Democrats. If the hon. Gentleman wants to enter the election season already by calling us weak on terrorism, he may do so, but he is demeaning the House and himself.
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Eastbourne (Mr. Waterson) on his good fortune and on introducing a Bill that will deal, as he said, with the international scourge of world terrorism and other offenders who besmirch the name of this country, such as those who call themselves football supporters and commit substantive offences abroad. The hon. Gentleman's Bill carries on a tradition of development of our statute law and our common law, and it has received the endorsement of an intergovernmental working party and the inquiry into legislation against terrorism chaired by Lord Lloyd of Berwick. 582
 Mr. Leigh : That is my next point. We face similar questions regarding the War Crimes Act 1991, which gave British courts jurisdiction to try people for certain crimes committed abroad before they were citizens of the United Kingdom. In all honesty, it cannot be said that there have been any notable or successful prosecutions under the Act. We all know about the dramatic collapse of the recent—and the only—case brought under the Act. The Government were warned again and again during the Bill's passage through this and the other place. However, for laudable reasons—including the appalling nature of the crimes committed long ago—they felt compelled to act. I understand that, but the fact remains that no successful prosecutions have been brought under the Act—despite a considerable outlay of public funds. We do not want my hon. Friend's Bill to go the same way. 620 621
 Mr. Edward Leigh  (Gainsborough and Horncastle) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Eastbourne (Mr. Waterson) on introducing the Bill. Ian Gow was not only a colleague of mine, he was a close friend. The Bill is a fitting memorial to him. I remember having dinner with him just a few days before he was assassinated. It was an appalling moment when we heard of his death. I am delighted that his successor has introduced this Bill, to which he spoke so ably. 617 618 The Times "can no more be defined than a terrier can define a rat, but it is instinctively known and detested by all democracies." "there can be no shelter for advocates of terrorism either within Britain or overseas." The Times. 619
 Mr. Leigh : This is a terribly important point. A value judgment is always involved. For example, it would be an
 633
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : That is a matter for the Select Committee on Procedure.
 Mr. Harry Greenway  (Ealing, North) : The hon. Gentleman gave the example of Nelson Mandela. I have often discussed the matter with my lifelong friend Trevor Huddleston. The anti-apartheid movement which Trevor founded was non-violent. I believe that the movement ended apartheid in South Africa. I cannot develop the argument because I do not have the time, but it was not a violent movement. Trevor Huddleston, a deeply Christian man, as the hon. Gentleman will know, hated apartheid. He talked of it with great hate, but there was still no violence in the movement, which Nelson Mandela embraced wholeheartedly.
 Mr. Greenway : I agree, but the hon. Gentleman describes a war in which the resistance was involved. There are those in Britain who argue that civil disobedience is right if one regards the law as unfair. We saw that this week. Some people think that civil disobedience is morally justified if they consider a law unfair on subjective grounds. The poll tax rioters caused enormous harm to innocent people and to the police who were seeking to maintain proper law and order. I witnessed their actions at first hand when I walked past the riots while pursuing parliamentary business. The sheer lawlessness and violence could not be justified. Therefore, I do not accept the argument advanced by the hon. Member for Swansea, East. I do not believe that the anti-apartheid movement—and people such as Rev. Sithole, Trevor Huddleston and Nelson Mandela—advocated that sort of terrorist violence. The hon. Gentleman's argument cannot be sustained. 600 601 602
 Mr. Harry Greenway  (Ealing, North) : I am delighted to follow my hon. Friend the Member for Newark (Mr. Alexander). I was interested in his response to the interesting speech by the hon. Member for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson).
 Mr. Dykes : Presumably my hon. Friend was not suggesting—I am sure that he will correct my wrong impression—that the European convention on human rights would encourage the perpetration of conspiratorial acts in this country. As he is aware, there is a growing body of opinion in this country, covering people of all parties and none, in favour of incorporating the convention into United Kingdom domestic law in whatever appropriate form can be achieved.
 Mr. Dykes : Will my hon. Friend reconsider the first part of his remarks, as we could get into difficult territory with interpretations? I appreciate that he was referring to the specific and precise application of the new law. However, we must bear it in mind that under the
 597
 Mr. Hugh Dykes  (Harrow, East) : The hon. Gentleman is a distinguished barrister, so perhaps he can tell us whether a possible combination could be that the legislation would embody the absolute condemnation of the use of our territory for such purposes—unequivocally and regardless of background factors—but that, in the
 587
 Sir Ivan Lawrence : Does my hon. Friend concede that public interest as far as the Crown Prosecution Service is concerned has much more limited scope than public interest as far as the Attorney-General, with the advice of the rest of the Government, is concerned?
 Sir Ivan Lawrence : I am grateful to my hon. Friend, but the Attorney-General could always decide these difficult issues. He is often presented with a question of public policy. The law may be clear, but the next question is, does public policy require that the processes of the law be instigated? 616
 Sir Ivan Lawrence  (Burton) : This has been a busy law and order week, and this is the fifth time that I have burdened the House with my thoughts; for that, I humbly apologise. Hon. Members might be relieved to recall their lucky escape, in that we did not reach my Question 5 to the Prime Minister on Thursday, because of PET—pre-election tension. 613 614
 Sir Ivan Lawrence : I shall not take the matter further lest any enthusiasm that I might show tempts those above me to appoint me to the Standing Committee. I shall be happy to readdress the matter, when I have read what everyone says, on Report or when the Bill returns from the other place, which, as we all know, is the repository of much wisdom.
 Sir Ivan Lawrence : That was too complicated for me to follow precisely. I do not think that there is a problem. If there is a matter of public policy, the Cabinet would consider the matter and then, no doubt, the Attorney-General's mind could be brought to bear. He would decide whether a prosecution was appropriate and would be prepared to defend that decision in this House, which is the strength of that system.
 Sir Ivan Lawrence : I knew exactly why the hon. Gentleman wished to intervene, but I let him do so out of
 615
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : Order. This has to be related to the Bill.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I think, as a tennis player, that is one set all.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. If there are any more allusions of that nature in the hon. Gentleman's speech, I should be grateful if he would not deliver them this morning.
 Mr. Waterson : I apologise for intervening a second time in the hon. Gentleman's thoughtful contribution. He will understand if I do not follow him down the line of considering individual cases such as that of President Mandela. Will he reflect on the safeguards that the offence would have to be an offence in this country as well as in another country and that, even if someone were prosecuted and convicted of a minor act of terrorism, the
 586
 Mr. Waterson : The chairman.
 Mr. Waterson : I shall be brief in replying to the debate. I agree entirely with my hon. Friend the Minister that it has been an excellent debate, marked by reasoned and constructive contributions from both sides of the House. I know that a number of colleagues would have liked to have been here today. In particular, I received a letter from the hon. and learned Member for Leicester, West (Mr. Janner), who would have liked to have been a sponsor had he been able to meet the procedure criteria. 635 636
 Mr. Waterson : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for giving way so that I may clarify the position. I asked some Opposition Members to become sponsors and they took the reasonable view that they wanted to see a draft of the Bill before committing themselves. I have some support from the hon. Gentleman's colleagues and I expressed my thanks to them in my speech.
 Mr. Waterson : I am sorry to disappoint my hon. Friend, but I shall not be dealing with those aspects in my speech—otherwise it would probably take up most of the morning. Perhaps my hon. Friend the Minister will touch on them. Other countries approach the problems in different ways or in similar ways to my Bill. However, it is absolutely clear that if terrorists co-operate internationally, Governments should do the same. As I have already said, it is an international problem. I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his support today. v. "in this century crime has ceased to be largely local in origin and effect. Crime is now established on an international scale, and the common law must face this new reality." 579 v. 580 581
 Mr. Nigel Waterson  (Eastbourne) : I beg to move. That the Bill be now read a Second time. 576 v. v. "remembering that it is the agreement which constitutes the crime, whether the unlawful object is effected or not, I cannot on principle see how the conspiracy constituted by such an agreement becomes untriable here simply because the crime or tort has been committed abroad … It would be or no benefit to this country if it became the sanctuary for conspirators provided only that they concluded their unlawful plots abroad." "It is our opinion that … consideration should be given to at least amending the English law relating to conspiracy so that conspiracy in England to commit a crime relating to maritime fraud in a convention country will be triable in England if the acts constituting the crime amount to a crime in England and the country where it has been agreed those acts shall be performed." 577 "If an Act of conspiracy or incitement which takes place here, relates to an act which is committed, or planned to be committed outside this country, then, notwithstanding that conspiracy and incitement themselves are criminal offences, UK courts would not have jurisdiction unless the substantive acts were, exceptionally, ones for which extra-territorial jurisdiction already existed." "This has a negative and unhelpful impact on our bilateral relations with many of the countries concerned." 578 "safe havens for terrorists on the run" "Britain is no exception, having been accused of harbouring Algerian, Indian, Palestinian and Turkish terrorists, and no doubt others besides. The UK has a responsibility not to allow its territory to be used as a base for violent activity against a foreign government, and the Government's record and pronouncements show that it takes this duty very seriously."
 Mr. Patrick Thompson  (Norwich, North) : I am listening to my hon. Friend's speech with great interest. He is introducing a very good measure. Will he refer to how other countries deal with the same problem? Does similar legislation already exist in France, Germany or the United States?
 Mr. Peter Butler  (Milton Keynes, North-East) : To assist the hon. Gentleman in making friends, may I ask him to glance down the list of sponsors, which includes my name, and concede that they are of high quality even if they are all Conservatives?
 Mr. Butler : As always, the hon. Gentleman's contribution is exactly to the point. Earlier, he set out the moral quandary and suggested that we might consider absorbing it into the criminal law. He asked how we might feel if that moral quandary was imported into the law in other countries which then refused to do anything about murders and killings in Northern Ireland. I invite him to consider the point he has just made in his intervention in connection with his earlier remarks. "It was clear to me that fears were running high and there was a very volatile reaction to the notion that Professor Masari, in their words, was being 'dumped in their country' … every single person I spoke to—every taxi driver, every person I spoke to in the bars—was against Professor Masari coming." The Independent The Independent The Independent on Sunday, "The UK is anything but a soft touch for asylum seekers … They are welcomed not with a humanitarian response but with suspicion and a presumption of guilt." The Independent "Judge David Pearl, the chief immigration adjudicator sitting at the Immigration Appellate Authority in north London, accused ministers of an unprecedented attempt 'to circumvent for diplomatic
 611 The Independent "governments should seek additional means to address the subject of refugees and asylum seekers who plan, fund or commit terrorist acts." The Times "could easily become mired in UN committees: it could take years to reach the required consensus." The Times The Times "it is suggested that consideration should be given to taking extra-territorial jurisdiction"— 612 "only where at least one of the following tests was satisfied". "where the offence is serious (this might be defined, in respect of existing offences, by reference to the length of sentence". "where, by virtue of the nature of the offence, the witnesses and evidence necessary for the prosecution are likely to be available in UK territory, even though the offence was committed outside the jurisdiction". "where there is international consensus that certain conduct is reprehensible and that concerted action is needed involving the taking of extra-territorial jurisdiction". "where the vulnerability of the victim makes it particularly important to be able to tackle instances of the offence". "where it appears to be in the interests of the standing and reputation of the UK in the international community". "where there is a danger that offences would otherwise not be justiciable". "The second condition is that that act or other event constitutes an offence under the law in force in that country or territory." "the second condition is taken to be satisfied unless"
 Mr. Peter Butler  (Milton Keynes, North-East) : I shall start with the point on which my hon. Friend the Member for Beckenham (Mr. Merchant) concluded, and congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Eastbourne (Mr. Waterson) on his skill in securing fourth place in the ballot and invite him at a suitable private occasion to explain to me how he did it. I also congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Croydon, South (Mr. Ottaway), who has now returned to the Chamber, on his perspicacity in drawing up his report on the international treatment of maritime fraud. It is always a pleasure to congratulate a member of the Conservative Whips Office on every possible occasion and I do so, if possible, even more strongly than my colleagues have done. The Times "Pamphlets circulating in London mosques are calling for the shooting of Westerners in Algeria, the kidnapping and murder of government officials, the hijacking of planes and the sabotage of peace talks to end the civil war … The pamphlets in Arabic are outspoken in inciting violence and assassination. 'Hold a stone, trigger a bomb, plant a mine, hijack a plane, do not ask how … Do something to prove that on your shoulders there stands a head, not a piece of cheese. The times of kidnapping are not over yet, do something.'" "For the past two years newspapers have been distributed in mosques and among Britain's Muslim community boasting about the number of Westerners killed and of the ambushes and actions against Algerian military forces… 608 The Algerian Government claims that because Britain's asylum laws do not proscribe political activity as long as it does not break British law"— "dissident exiles are flocking to London to take advantage of the good communications and large number of Arab newspapers published here … Britain has become a centre for subversion, and diplomats are urging Britain to prosecute anyone plotting terrorism and assassination." The Guardian "Jihad leaders living in Britain had helped instruct 36 militants who are now under arrest. These suspects allegedly planned suicide attacks on Ministers, politicians, policemen and journalists, and received instruction from other senior figures living in Switzerland and Austria." "These men used codenames, disguises and forged documents to facilitate their life abroad" Hansard 252, The Sunday Telegraph "The Government will come under renewed pressure from Israel this week to act against Islamic fanatics who use Britain as a base to plan and support terrorist attacks." "called on world leaders to crack down on dissidents who 'abuse the hospitality and protection' of their adopted countries." The Sunday Telegraph "The Prime Minister no doubt had in mind Dr. Mohammed al-Masari, the relatively benign"— "Saudi dissident who upset the Riyadh authorities by sending a stream of faxes from London calling for the peaceful overthrow of Saudi Arabia's ruling family." "This is your time, the time for heroism and to merit dying a martyr's death, This is the time for holy war and martyrdom. You must take your place of honour in martyrdom and not among the weak regime of Yasser Arafat." 609 The Observer "that it was the sacred duty of all Muslims to back the jihad against Israel and other 'occupied territories', such as the Indian state of Kashmir. He said secret organisations to tap funds and recruit fighters for 'international brigades' were already well established in Britain, and one of his party's principal aims was to garner further support." v. 610
 Mr. Butler : If my hon. and learned Friend is a hard right winger, I am a centre main fuselage in this matter.
 Mr. Butler : And we do not have the social chapter.
 Mr. Butler : He should be accompanied by his supporters.
 Mr. Butler : I want to raise a matter which may be dealt with in the reply to the debate. If the comments to which my hon. Friend just referred amounted to incitement to racial hatred—for example, if they were comments based on a tribal difference between the ruling tribe and other tribes in another country—presumably, if the dual criminality test were passed, people could be prosecuted for them in this country when the Bill became law.
 Mr. Butler : I do not think so.
 Mr. Butler : The hon. Gentleman makes an interesting point. It is more a moral than a legal quandary, but he rightly translates it into legal terms. To put it the other way round, is he saying that there are circumstances in which, for example, the murder of innocent civilians and citizens in countries abroad is justified, and that there should be no law against the people who planned those murders from this country, or if there is a law it should not be pursued? If that is a proper interpretation of his remarks, I find it difficult to agree with him.
 Mr. Merchant : In a sense, I was insinuating that the convention could encourage the perpetration of
 606 "In the Commission's view this"— "represents an absolute guarantee of protection which may not be removed even if the alien represents a threat to the host country's national security." "member states may not derogate from their obligations … If there is evidence that a person is involved in terrorism, the Commission argues, he should be prosecuted under the criminal laws of the host country."
 Mr. Merchant : I do not want to descend to the specific, but I do not think that the hon. Gentleman is precisely correct. I can envisage circumstances in which such statements may be held to be an incitement, especially if they were sent to organisations abroad that are linked to acts of terrorism. But I was not advancing that argument; I was merely trying to show the groups that existed in this country at that time and what their motivations were, because that is a problem that should be pursued. 604 605
 Mr. Piers Merchant  (Beckenham) : Terrorism is a scourge in the last part of the 20th century. It has caused misery and tragedy throughout the globe. Thousands of people have been killed, maimed or horribly injured as a result of the activities of terrorists. So many grieving mothers and distraught widows show that assertion to be correct. One of the worst aspects of terrorism is that the victims are normally entirely innocent. Children, tourists and shoppers, for example, are caught by the turmoil of violence that is exercised by people with whom they probably have nothing in common; they have no knowledge of and no involvement with such people. 603 The Observer "secret organisations to tap funds and recruit lighters for 'international brigades' … already well established in Britain, and one of his party's principal aims was to garner further support" The Times "Hold a stone, trigger a bomb, plant a mine, hijack a plane, do not ask how … Do something to prove that on your shoulders there stands a head, not a piece of cheese. The times of kidnapping are not over yet, do something."
 Mr. Merchant : Yes, I was aware of that declaration. I pay tribute to my hon. Friend and his colleagues for their assiduity in pursuing the issue. It was a British-led initiative that led to the change in the United Nations definition. To what extent that new definition will lie alongside the interpretation of the European Commission of Human Rights remains to be seen. That is one of the reasons why I raised that dichotomy.
 Mr. Piers Merchant  (Beckenham) : I shall be extremely brief. I pay tribute to the hon. Member for Paisley, North (Mrs. Adams) for her work on witness protection, and for her obvious commitment to that concept. However, I am afraid that I strongly disagree with her Bill, because I do not believe that it is the best way to achieve what she rightly wants to achieve.
 Mr. Alexander : I shall return to my argument, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Alexander : I accept what my hon. Friend says. The interventions in my speech show why it is so important to ensure that we do not try to decide whether a country is good or bad before deciding whether something that is the subject of a conspiracy in this country is prosecutable. We should not go down that road.
 Mr. Alexander : I understand the hon. Gentleman's point. However, my understanding of the Bill is that the act of communicating is not, of itself, an offence. The act of organising criminality in another country by communication is an offence—but merely communicating is not, because it would not be an offence in this country—
 Mr. Alexander : I am sure that my hon. Friend the Minister will answer for himself when he replies to the debate. A message of support as such would not be a criminal offence in the United Kingdom. A message of support, encouragement and incitement to criminal activity in another country would be a criminal offence. 598 The Times "We are concerned at the unwelcome presence of foreign extremists in the United Kingdom who abuse our traditional freedoms. We are in close contact with a number of foreign Governments who share our concern. Any evidence of violations of UK law will be passed to the police for action."—[ Official Report, 252. 599
 Mr. Alexander : I was about to come to that point. It is where I disagree with the hon. Gentleman, for whom I have a great deal of respect. He made a thoughtful and useful contribution to the debate. I, like my hon. Friend the Minister—who responded to the hon. Gentleman's points earlier—firmly believe that it is not the Government's right or duty to take a view on what is happening in another country.
 Mr. Richard Alexander  (Newark) : I join those who have voiced thanks to my hon. Friend the Member for Eastbourne (Mr. Waterson). I want to comment on the dispassionate way in which he has talked us through the Bill, which is of great interest to all hon. Members present. If the public, who regard our proceedings as two 15-minute slots on Thursday and Tuesday afternoons and something of a bear garden, were to take closer interest in thoughtful debates of this nature, the image of Parliament would be much improved. Earlier this week, Madam Speaker encouraged such an improvement. 595 v. v. 596
 Mr. Richard Alexander  (Newark) : I do not wish to make a party point, but the case of Dr. al-Masari is an important example. I shall refer to it shortly, if I catch your eye, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Does the hon. Gentleman agree that Dr. al-Masari's comments should not only fall within the legislation, but deprive him of any right to asylum in this country?
 Mr. Roger Gale  (North Thanet) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. As you know, the Dangerous Dogs (Amendment) Bill has been through another place on two occasions, first introduced by the late Lord Houghton of Sowerby and secondly by Viscount Falkland. The Bill has wide support and has been scrutinised by the Select Committee of the House of Lords. It is also in line with the recommendations of a House of Commons Select Committee. In spite of that, an objection has been raised today. Will you ask Madam Speaker to discuss with the Leader of the House ways in which we can ensure that legislation that has been given consideration in another place, and passed through all its stages, receives a proper and courteous hearing in this House?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Simon Burns) : I am grateful to the hon. Member for Southwark and Bermondsey (Mr. Hughes) for raising this important issue and I pay tribute to the constructive, thoughtful and thought-provoking way in which he has dealt with a very sensitive subject. 653 654 655 656
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark and Bermondsey) : I am grateful for the opportunity for a short debate on the question of rehabilitation from alcoholism, and for the Minister's attendance to reply. This is not, it might be thought, the most populist subject, but it is very important. I want to explain why I chose this subject for debate and to set it in context. "What is the common factor in: up to half of all social work caseloads; up to one quarter of occupied hospital beds; one quarter of accidents at work; over 8 million lost working days each year; half of all juvenile crimes; three deaths every hour? Think about drink." 649 650 "there is a need for a more concerted and coherent response to alcohol-related crime." 651 "The single biggest barrier faced by those who would wish to see an on-going strategy for concerted action to tackle alcohol-related crime is the absence of detailed statistical evidence." "In most cases services were inaccessible to service users who often had to jump through a number of hoops, and express high levels of motivation before gaining access to a service at all." "we are struggling with the lack of 'joined-up thinking' between Central Government Departments, local government and NHS planning structures which don't consider the knock-on effect of proposals for change". 652 "to assist general practitioners in detecting and treating patients suffering from alcohol-related illness." "We are currently considering what support we might give to purchasers of treatment and care for people with alcohol misuse problems. This would include general practitioners involved in the purchasing and planning of such services. We aim to produce, by next summer"— "guidance equivalent to the guidance we issued this year to purchasers of services for drug misusers".—[ Official Report, 626.
 Mr. Yeo : I am most grateful for your guidance, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Let me just say that I welcome the support that we have from the Opposition. It would be nice to know the Liberal position. One might ask, "Where are they today?" We may soon be asking, "Where are they tomorrow?" judging by the latest opinion poll results in the newspapers.
 Mr. Yeo : I am grateful for that adjudication. I will say only that of course the whole House knows that the Prime Minister has the unanimous and wholehearted support of all Conservative Members.  [Laughter.] The Sun
 Mr. Yeo : I am grateful for that reminder. What I had in mind— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Yeo : I believe that hon. Members will find that the record is not capable of that interpretation, but if it is, I unreservedly withdraw it.
 Mr. Yeo : Of course I did not say that, and I certainly did not wish to imply it.
 Mr. Yeo : That intervention bears out my point that there is no freedom, however deeply cherished in the past, no principle, however loudly trumpeted in an election address—perhaps by the right hon. Member for Sedgefield (Mr. Blair) in 1983 or 1987—that cannot now be abandoned in pursuit of votes.
 Mr. Yeo : We look forward to Opposition support for the Bill. I believe that we can now expect the Opposition's
 593
 Mr. Yeo : My hon. Friend makes an interesting point. I am not sure what the law is in Finland, but if there were a similar measure in Finland, a prosecution might possibly be brought against the hon. Member for Hackney, North and Stoke Newington (Ms Abbott) for incitement to racial hatred in relation to remarks made a little while ago about Finnish nurses My hon. Friend has raised a very interesting point, which he may want to explore in detail when he makes his contribution.
 Mr. Yeo : Of course. My hon. Friend has a safe seat and I am sure that he could utilise the few weeks between now and 1 May very usefully on a world tour. Once again,
 592
 Mr. Yeo : As my hon. Friend says from a sedentary position, our opt-out from the social chapter is another factor that draws international business to this country. It remains unknown whether that reputation would survive in the unlikely event of a change of Government, or, indeed, whether the proposals by the hon. Member for Oldham, West (Mr. Meacher)—which are so severely at odds with those of the shadow Chancellor—might not call all that into question very quickly. We do not want Britain to acquire a reputation for being a sympathetic environment for terrorists or international criminals of any kind.
 Mr. Yeo : Sorry—the chairman of that body and although he lost his original seat shortly after the report referred to was written, his career has clearly prospered on that very solid foundation. 591
 Mr. Yeo : I agree—to a great extent, we have to hope that common sense will prevail, although that might be a rash assumption when so often it fails to do so. Perhaps there would be circumstances in which prosecutions that could be brought under the Bill would not be brought, because it was clear that there was no need to do so.
 Mr. Tim Yeo  (South Suffolk) : The hon. Member for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson) has made a thoughtful contribution to the debate, which everyone welcomes; but I have to say that those of us who do not belong to professions that are paid by the hour cannot help noticing that, after 40 minutes, he is not quite sure what the answer is. I suppose that that is because these are difficult issues.
 Mr. Kirkhope : I want to correct a misapprehension that could arise from the hon. Gentleman's remarks. We have received considerable praise from the French operational agencies as a result of our co-operation and assistance in dealing with the Algerian extremist threat. I want that to be clear and on the record.
 Mr. Kirkhope : I am sorry to interrupt the hon. Gentleman again. We are a democracy. We are very
 589
 Mr. Kirkhope : I am sorry to interrupt the hon. Gentleman again. We are in danger, are we not, of becoming a little too selective. My hon. Friend's Bill refers to matters which the United Kingdom regards as crimes. Whether it is merely blowing up a pylon or murdering someone, in United Kingdom law that is not an acceptable act. If it is planned in the United Kingdom to take place elsewhere, that is not acceptable. When we drafted the Bill, we were in difficulties deciding whether simply to extend the power to specific offences, but my hon. Friend the Member for Eastbourne (Mr. Waterson) is right to have decided to ask the House to approve the power in a general sense for those crimes which are United Kingdom crimes. The dual criminality rule is the protection.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department (Mr. Timothy Kirkhope) : I follow the hon. Gentleman's line of thought, but the Bill makes it perfectly clear that, whatever the merits or demerits of an individual case, we do not want this country to continue to allow anybody, for any reason, to plan or plot what he called a little bit of terrorism; it makes no difference whether it is a little bit or a lot of terrorism: we do not want people here planning any terrorism whatever.
 Mr. Kirkhope : We have no problem with messages of support, provided that they are not incitements. The word "incitement" is clearly defined in the Bill. Nevertheless, I think that the nature of a message is an irrelevance.
 Mr. Kirkhope : Perhaps I could help my hon. Friend on the question about a message or a communication, an issue that has been raised by several hon. Members this morning. There is no problem with a message, unless by sending it the sender is inciting others elsewhere to commit a criminal offence. In that case a message, of whatever sort—whether a postal communication or an e-mail, as is becoming much more common—would, with sufficient evidence being available, be enough to come within the ambit of the Bill.
 Mr. Kirkhope : My hon. Friend referred, quite rightly, to the protection that might be offered to refugees. I am sure that he is aware of the United Nations declaration that was adopted on 17 December last. It made it clear that those who engaged in terrorist acts, including the planning, funding or inciting of them, were acting contrary to the principles of the United Nations and would, therefore, forgo the protection that would normally be available to those seeking refugee status.
 Mr. Kirkhope : The ultimate protection is dual criminality. The offence must be a crime in this country. We are a very free society and allow people to do all types of things short of behaviour that contravenes our criminal code. It is proper that we should apply that type of consideration when we consider whether prosecutions should proceed. I do not want to detain the House too long, but I appreciate that a valid point is being made. I shall consider the matter and we may have a word about it in Committee. 634
 Mr. Kirkhope : Yes. I believe I said that we were discussing two different things. In fact, the public interest is a stay on proceedings where appropriate, but it is not the same as what the hon. Member for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson) suggests, which goes much too far in applying political and subjective considerations. It is not up to us in this country to take such decisions in relation to crimes that have been committed here. We want legislation that will take effect against people who are committing crimes or inciting or conspiring to commit crimes in other countries, so we do not believe that the political considerations that the hon. Member for Swansea, East mentioned should properly be taken into account.
 Mr. Kirkhope : I probably cannot develop this exchange further to hon. Members' satisfaction, but it is important that I consider the matter carefully between now and Committee.
 Mr. Kirkhope : I am afraid that the hon. Gentleman and I differ in this regard; I believe that he goes too far. I have tried to make my position clear. It is not that I feel that we should determine matters in the political manner that he suggests. We are talking about the public interest, which I know my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Burton is aware of.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department (Mr. Timothy Kirkhope) : We have had an excellent debate on an important Bill. The speeches of my hon. Friends and other hon. Members have been models of eloquence. The Government are grateful to my hon. Friend the Member for Eastbourne (Mr. Waterson) for introducing the Bill, which will provide the courts, in each of the jurisdictions of the United Kingdom, with jurisdiction over acts of conspiracy or incitement committed in this country which relate to any substantive criminal act intended to be carried out abroad. The Government fully support the Bill. 627 628 629 630 631 632
 Mr. Kirkhope : I am listening carefully to my hon. and learned Friend. He is making an important point, but I should mention that, as things currently stand, the consent of the Attorney-General is provided for in statute only in extremely limited circumstances—mostly having to do with offences under the Official Secrets Act. The problem is that introducing a consent provision for the Attorney-General in this legislation, where prosecution could be in regard to any sort of criminal offence, would be a difficult move.
 Mrs. Irene Adams  (Paisley, North) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time. 638 639
 Dr. John Cunningham : As for the untruthful claptrap and scaremongering that we have just heard from the right hon. Lady, let us face a couple of facts. The social chapter does not deal with incomes; nor does it deal with the minimum wage, as the hon. Member for Ribble Valley (Mr. Evans) implied; nor does it deal with the social costs of other nations.
 Dr. John Cunningham : We all know that, if the right hon. Lady and her right hon. Friend the Deputy Prime Minister had had their way, there would have been an open-ended cash commitment to a project at Greenwich, which was heading towards costing the people £1 billion. Will she assure us that she, like us, is committed to working to make sure that the Greenwich millennium project stays on course and within budget, and that not a penny more than that budget will be spent on it?
 Several hon. Members   rose
 Sir Irvine Patrick  (Sheffield, Hallam) : The situation in which Councillor Bower finds himself is not of his making. As my right hon. Friend correctly points out, it is the result of the actions of the hon. Members for Sheffield, Attercliffe (Mr. Betts) and for Sheffield, Brightside (Mr. Blunkett). Council tax and rents were not collected. When I explained to the House the litany of mistakes in Sheffield, my comments were greeted with derision by the Opposition. Anyone who wants to see an example of Labour in power should look at Sheffield. We should also remember that Sheffield has had socialism for longer than Moscow had communism.
 Several hon. Members   rose
35.  Dr. Spink : To ask the Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department if he will make a statement about the level of the legal aid budget over the past three years. [12252]
 Dr. Spink : Will my hon. Friend take time in the near future to set out how the Government intend to control legal aid expenditure more rigorously, and whether they will set caps on it? Is it not shameful that the legal profession and Opposition Members seek to extend the legal aid budget, particularly to industrial tribunals?
 Mr. Jim Marshall  (Leicester, South) : Mr. Deputy Speaker, the last time I was involved in a local government finance debate, I think that you were also involved. We both realise how long ago that was. As I listened to the Secretary of State's bluster, I reflected that I had not missed much over the past few years. If it were not for an pressing problem in the city of Leicester—I mention that to ensure that the Minister knows where my constituency is—the Secretary of State might well have driven me from the Chamber. I cannot but believe that his speech, and that of the hon. Member for Bury, South (Mr. Sumberg), had more to do with the coming general election than with the needs of local government. However, like the hon. Member for Bury, South, I am seeking the Secretary of State's assistance, so perhaps I should curtail my criticism and get on with my substantive point. 706
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin : I congratulate my right hon. Friend on pointing out how destructive the encroaching tide of European legislation can be. May I point out, perhaps with some glee, what an effective recruiting agent to the Conservative cause the Labour party support for the social chapter is, because people realise how many jobs would be destroyed?
 Madam Speaker : I do not think that I can help the hon. Gentleman. He knows, as does the House, that nothing said during proceedings in this House can possibly give rise to action in the courts. If, of course, one hon. Member takes legal action against another for something said or done outside this House—whatever it may be—it is not a matter for the Chair.
 Madam Speaker : I understand that with this, it will be convenient to discuss the following motions:
 That the Special Grant Report (No. 23) (House of Commons Paper No. 204), which was laid before this House on 27th January, be approved. That the Limitation of Council Tax and Precepts (Relevant Notional Amounts) Report (England) 1997–98 (House of Commons Paper No. 205), which was laid before this House on 27th January, be approved.
 Madam Speaker : I think that that was a point of frustration rather than a point of order.
 Madam Speaker : With permission, I shall put together the motions relating to delegated legislation. Motion made, and Question put forthwith, pursuant to Standing Order No. 101(6) (Standing Committees on Delegated Legislation),
 Madam Speaker : Order. Mr. Deva is speaking. Hon. Members must take their seats.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Let's finish this off. Come on.
 Mr. Alan Howarth : Is not the right hon. Lady aware that her own Department's document on tourism, "Tourism: Competing with the Best", rightly makes the case for the need for quality and the need for training? Does she not understand that that quality of product will not be achieved on the basis of poverty pay and sweated labour?
 Mr. Miller : Will the Minister look more carefully at the issue of the closure of court offices, to which he referred in his response? Does he not realise that his actions have meant that constituents of mine now have to make a bus journey to make payments at court offices and that, as a result of one of his earlier decisions, people now have to make two bus journeys to get to a magistrates court? That cannot be right.
 Mr. Miller : If the Secretary of State recognises the importance of canals to our tourism infrastructure, why is she passing the responsibility on to the lottery rather than directly supporting projects, such as the Ellesmere Port boat museum, which is so important to tourism in my constituency?
 Mr. Miller : The right hon. Lady told me.
 Sir Anthony Grant  (South-West Cambridgeshire) : Is my right hon. Friend aware that, in spite of the extra £6 million for education in Cambridgeshire, the Lib-Lab coalition is proposing an across-the-board cut for schools of £8.8 million? Is not that yet another example, and an awful warning, of the dangers of Liberals getting into bed with Labour or vice versa?
7.  Mr. Austin Mitchell : To ask the Secretary of State for National Heritage what estimate she has made of the costs that would be incurred by her Department in the event of the cancellation of the millennial project at Greenwich. [12222]
 Mr. Mitchell : The right hon. Lady has not answered my question, which was about the costs of junking the exhibition. Would not the cost of junking the exhibition be small compared with the humiliation and extravagance involved in going ahead with what essentially will be a boil on the bum of the millennium? It is a project which has no purpose—unlike the exhibition of 1851 and the festival of 1951—which business does not want, in which companies will not invest, which is being built in a place that no one wants to go to, and could not get to even if one did—and which will have no permanent value apart from a Hezza-dome, which is likely to be as transient and as vainglorious as its progenitor. Would not the money involved be better spent on putting schools, museums, galleries and public buildings on line to national culture, rather than being chucked away on an expensive piece of land reclamation?
 Mr. William O'Brien  (Normanton) : When the Secretary of State considered the pressure on local authorities' resources, did he also considered the pressure on services? Because of the strictures of past years, the policy on funding local authorities is biting harder this year. Has the right hon. Gentleman considered the effect on services? Even libraries, schools and old people's homes are suffering because of the tightness of the budget provision. Will he give some assurances that he will undertake a review, as some authorities are having to impose restrictions on services, which are beyond the pale and not what they were set up to do? Will he give the provision of services some consideration?
 Mr. Robert Ainsworth  (Coventry, North-East)   rose
 Mr. Robert Ainsworth   rose
 Mr. Ainsworth : The Secretary of State says that he has been working on the issue for some time, and that he does not want to make any changes that are not complete in their effect, but surely he can do something about the most blatant consequences of the current grant system. For instance, he says that tax should reflect the efficiency of councils—but Westminster spends £214 per claimant on dealing with benefit administration, and has one of the lowest council taxes in the country. There is no excuse for discrepancies of that kind, is there?
 Mr. Robert Ainsworth : Am I right in interpreting what the hon. Gentleman is now saying as meaning that he intends to vote for what he has exposed as a totally unfair settlement for his county?
 Mr. Ainsworth : The hon. Gentleman is fishing now.
 Mr. Robert Ainsworth : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that there will never be a consensus about changes across the whole of local government, that his authority is losing out massively from the current formula, and that the Secretary of State could change it if he wanted? Why then does the hon. Gentleman continue to support him?
 Mr. Robert Ainsworth  (Coventry, North-East) : I shall not follow the hon. Member for Twickenham (Mr. Jessel) in speaking about sleeping policemen, statues, atriums and
 753 754 755
 Mr. Charles Hendry  (High Peak)   rose
 Mr. Hendry : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Hendry : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. The hon. Gentleman has referred to my constituency twice. Is it not the convention in the House that, if that happens, the hon. Member who represents that constituency should be heard?
 Mr. Gill : I simply want to point out—
 Mr. Christopher Gill  (Ludlow) : Like many other speakers, the hon. Member for Wansbeck (Mr. Thompson) expressed his dissatisfaction not only with the system but with the way in which the revenue support grant is allocated. In my county, there is certainly continuing dissatisfaction with the weighting given to the sparsity factor—to which the hon. Member for Wansbeck referred—and to the area cost adjustment, to which able reference was made by my hon. Friend for Cirencester and Tewkesbury (Mr. Clifton-Brown). In Shropshire, the sparsity factor is now a serious consideration—we do not feel that enough weighting is given to it—but the problem will become even more acute after reorganisation. Once Telford becomes a unitary authority, the rest of the county, far from experiencing sparsity problems, will experience super-sparsity problems. 747 748
 Mr. Gill : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Campbell-Savours   rose
 Mr. D. N. Campbell-Savours  (Workington)   rose
 The Minister for Local Government, Housing and Urban Regeneration (Mr. David Curry) : The right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East (Mr. Brown) has said that, for the first two years, a Labour Government would observe the public expenditure framework set by this Government. Is the hon. Member for Holborn and St. Pancras (Mr. Dobson) now saying that a Labour Government would not allow council taxes to increase in year 2? If that were the case, where would a Labour Government find their public expenditure?
 Mr. Curry : I should like to pursue the hon. Gentleman's point. Is he saying that the amount per child should be the same across the country, or is he saying that he accepts that it should be different, but that the differential is too wide? It is a very important point. Does he accept, for example, that educating a population with a large ethnic minority group costs more? It is important to know exactly where he stands. It is easy to remark, "We get less, so it is unfair." In that differentiation, he must spell out what he thinks are the bounds of fairness.
 Mr. Curry : We had the maiden voyage of Labour's new flagship local authority, which appears to be Harlow. In 1996–97, Harlow budgeted 40 per cent. above SSA, and this year it will budget at 43 per cent. above SSA if it is at its cap. Its council tax collection costs per household are £26.79 against a family average of £16.90. Its number of staff per thousand population is 17.5 against a family average of 8.7. Harlow is to efficient local government what J. Paul Getty is to beachcombing. If that is Labour's flagship, heaven help the flotilla and God save the admiral in charge of the fleet. 767
 Mr. Curry : The hon. Gentleman was not present for the whole debate, so I shall not give way to him now.
 The Minister for Local Government, Housing and Urban Regeneration (Mr. David Curry) : It is perhaps worth recalling the background to this settlement. Interestingly, Opposition Members spoke almost exclusively about redistribution; they did not address the amount available for local government in the public expenditure round. In previous years, the Opposition call was "Spend, spend, spend". Suddenly, the tune has changed: it is now all about redistribution. 764
 Mr. Curry : It is not capped. It is not revenue support grant money but money that is realised for investment in regeneration. I hope that the hon. Gentleman will urge his local authority to do that, as I hope that he will urge it to transfer housing stock and to understand that local authorities should be in the business of service, not ownership. The authority should explore the full use of the private finance initiative. Local authorities that are imaginative and want to improve services have a great opportunity to do so if they get out of the old mindset of what they think local government is in place to do. 765 766
 Mr. Curry : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. David Hinchliffe  (Wakefield) : My hon. Friend is making an important point. During the past 15 years, Wakefield has lost 20,000 mining-related jobs, yet there appears to be no means within the mechanism for calculating the revenue support grant to take account of the efforts that the local authority has made on economic regeneration. That anomaly in the current arrangements affects my hon. Friend's constituency as well.
 Sir David Madel  (South-West Bedfordshire) : The hon. Member for Leicester, South (Mr. Marshall) and my hon. Friend the Member for Bury, South (Mr. Sumberg) drew
 707 708 "Bedfordshire County Council is handling the challenge of local government reorganisation well." 709
 Mr. David Rendel  (Newbury) : It is sad that the debate is a depressing one for all those who are involved in local government, not least because of a sense of déjà-vu. There have been similar debates in previous years, and I recall particularly the debate that took place on 31 January 1996. The same points had to be made in January last year because the Government were doing very much the same thing. 710 711 712 [Interruption.] 713
 Mr. Rendel   rose
 Mr. David Rendel  (Newbury) : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Rendel : The Secretary of State argued at length that there are always opportunities for efficiency savings. Since the Conservative Government came to power in 1979, by how much has real central Government spending been cut?
 Mr. David Sumberg  (Bury, South)   rose
 Mr. Sumberg : I entirely accept that my local authority is losing out massively as a result of the formula, but the hon. Gentleman and the hon. Member for Holborn and St. Pancras know that there is no large bank of money sitting in Whitehall that could do something about it. Nor can—nor should—my right hon. Friend make changes without consensus. The formula applies not to one authority alone but to all of local government. 704
 Mr. Sumberg : We shall wait and see. I do not believe it, because none of the hon. Gentleman's friends in local government, as I said before, has proposed any change whatever in the formula. On the whole—almough some of them lose out as we do in Bury—they are satisfied with it. In the unlikely scenario that the hon. Gentleman posits, he will face exactly the situation currently faced by my right hon. Friend.
 Mr. Sumberg : It is profoundly dishonest for the hon. Member for Holborn and St. Pancras to refuse to make a commitment, today or ever, that there will be more money for local government. I cannot tell the people of Bury that, in the unlikely event of a Labour Government, they will have more money. They will not.
 Mr. Sumberg : The hon. Gentleman will not speak again in this debate, but perhaps the hon. Member for North-West Durham (Ms Armstrong) will set out in detail the way in which the formula will be changed rather than regaling us at length with what Westminster council gets or does not get. If she is prepared to do that, the House and the country may be prepared to listen. 705
 Mr. Sumberg : The really important vote will be called soon, because it will take place in Bury council chamber some time in March to decide what priority the Labour council gives to the services enjoyed by my constituents. I make no bones about the fact that some elements of the situation are unfair to Bury and to the council. However, just as we in our private lives must accept the situations that we face and deal with them, so must local councils. We cannot pretend that our bank manager is charging us 5 per cent. when he is charging 15 per cent. on our overdrafts, because that would result in financial disaster. Equally, while the situation may be difficult and harsh, the council cannot pretend that it lives on another planet.
 Mr. David Sumberg  (Bury, South) : I make no apologies for devoting all my speech to the serious situation faced by my constituents in Bury because of the threat by the Labour council to cut vital public services drastically. 703
 Mr. Sumberg : The hon. Gentleman's answer to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State just will not do. He has to explain why the Labour councils that control the metropolitan authorities are not pushing for the change to which my right hon. Friend referred. In the unlikely event that the hon. Gentleman becomes Secretary of State for the Environment, what will he do to impose such terms on them?
 Mr. Denis MacShane  (Rotherham) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I wish to raise a matter about which I have given notice to you and, by telephone and letter, to the hon. Gentleman involved. Last week, I received a letter from the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Cash), threatening me with legal action arising out of a speech that I made in the House 10 days ago, when I suggested or argued that he and other right hon. and hon. Members supported policies that would lead to the detachment or withdrawal of Britain from Europe. He now threatens me with legal action if I repeat those remarks. In no way did I question his personal honour, probity or integrity. I myself have been accused of being a Euro-federalist, which is a lie. Madam Speaker, is it in order for one hon. Member to threaten another with legal action on an important area of public policy debate?
 Mr. Skinner : That was an interesting reply. As items of historical importance could be worth a bob or two, will this lousy Government, in their dying days, give a categorical assurance that, having bought such items with the proceeds of the lottery, they will not sell them off?
 Mr. Dennis Turner  (Wolverhampton, South-East) : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Turner : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. The Minister said—as he did in the previous debate on local government—that I was not in my place during the debate. I was present during the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for North-West Durham (Ms Armstrong) and during the Minister's winding-up speech, and I wanted him to give way so as to hear about Wolverhampton.
 Sir Donald Thompson : Has my hon. Friend considered the effect of the tax on destinations within the United Kingdom? Does it not put a strain on airlines, especially given the amazing and huge revival of the railways since privatisation?
32.  Mr. Llwyd : To ask the Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department how many county courts there were in England and Wales in 1967; how many there are currently; and if he will make a statement. [12249]
 Mr. Llwyd : I thank the Minister for that reply. I do not know whether he is aware that the nearest county court trial centre to my constituency is at least an hour and a half's drive away. If there are to be any further closures pursuant to the Woolf report, I urge the Minister to consider carefully the issue of local access to justice, including county court centres.
 Mr. Eric Illsley  (Barnsley, Central)   rose
 Mr. Illsley : My hon. Friend knows that, if the capital funding for the supertram project this year is not met by some Government allowance—either in terms of SSA or funding—council tax in Barnsley could increase by about £150. Will he press the Minister to say what action the Government will take to prevent supertram funding from falling on the four local authorities, including Barnsley?
 Mr. Illsley : The Secretary of State said at the outset of his speech that the total amount of funding available had been agreed by Labour. Rather than talking about providing extra money for local government, will he consider a fairer distribution among the local authorities?
 Mr. Frank Dobson  (Holborn and St. Pancras) : The fact is that—as one of the junior Ministers pointed out in a letter to my hon. Friend the Member for North-West Durham (Ms Armstrong)—things have changed so much that the Government cannot say whether Westminster received more or less.
 Mr. Dobson : I shall come to our intentions in due course.  [Laughter.] 693
 Mr. Dobson : Whether or not councils have the discretion, it is the Government's intention that the average council tax increase should be 6 per cent. this year and they are forcing it through. 694
 Mr. Dobson : I am sure that my hon. Friend will agree that the fourth part of the whammy will be when the local Tory candidates blame Calderdale council for what has happened.
 Mr. Dobson : The undertaking that I give is that we shall have a fair system of allocation. The present one is manifestly not fair.
 Mr. Dobson : I shall come to that in my speech— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Frank Dobson  (Holborn and St. Pancras) : The Secretary of State should perhaps be awarded a charter mark for making a speech that lasted less than an hour. 692 "that the Council Tax can take more of the strain", "The downside is that your taxes go up quite sharply".
 Mr. Dobson : No, I have given way about three times on this issue.
 Mr. Dobson : The local authority associations and individual local authorities accept that, while the Government are in power, all that they can expect is fine tuning of the system. The more I look at the system, the more I believe that it needs to be changed root and branch because it is a racket.
 Mr. Dobson : My understanding is that they have asked for some of the things about which I am talking to be done. [Interruption.] 696
 Mr. Dobson : No, the hon. Gentleman is not from Westminster, and I am talking about Westminster. He may live there, but I do not know. 697
 Mr. Dobson : The Government know, the officials know and the Secretary of State ought to know by now that the figures for the past and for the present are literally incomparable.
 Mr. Dobson : If they are comparable, will the Secretary of State tell us what the figures are? I will allow him to intervene.
 Mr. Dobson : I was just about to give way to the Secretary of State.
 Mr. Dobson : The fact that the Secretary of State—who is privileged to come to this House armed with innumerable advisers—has not produced a figure suggests that there is something amiss in his argument.
 Mr. Dobson : I was trying to speed things up, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Hon. Members who vote for the
 702
 Mr. Dobson : No.
 Mr. Dobson : I shall not give way at the moment. Recently, Ministers—including the Secretary of State today—have started to claim backing from the Audit Commission for their system of funding local councils. The Secretary of State quoted an Audit Commission report today, but the quote was pretty partial. The commission said that the present system was more sophisticated than foreign systems and better than the Tory scheme that preceded it. It did not leave it at that, however, and went on to say:
 "there is nothing indisputably right about the present system … Its basis is simply a set of imperfect statistical models. Yet immense authority is invested by the Government in the current SSA formula". "some of the system's objectives were contradictory". "Comparing the system with a checklist of objective criteria reveals that it is deficient in several ways … The technical performance of the system delivers a degree of fairness which could be improved." "The system is neither simple to understand nor stable in outcome", "Some authorities receive grant and spending power for services they do not provide." 701
 Mr. Dobson : It is not my argument—I do not need to produce the figures. 699
 Mr. Dobson : Please do not interrupt—I am about to quote the Secretary of State. He said last year:
 "Someone has to decide … That is a responsibility of mine".
 Mr. Dobson : The hon. Gentleman's electors in Harrow will probably think that his time would be better spent ensuring that he does not vote for a system under which, if his area got the same help per head of population as Westminster, people would get a rebate of £416, or for a settlement under which his local people will have to pay 26 per cent. of the cost of the council instead of 10 per cent. as they do in Westminster.
 Mr. Dobson : First, on an issue of principle, I am not me mouthpiece of the local authority associations. Secondly, as I have explained, those associations believe that they cannot expect any root and branch change from the Government and so, as long as they remain in power, they are looking for limited adjustments.
 Mr. Dobson : Spot on.
 Mr. Dobson : In case the hon. Gentleman misheard, I said not that there would be a review of the formula but that there would be a change in the way in which the money was allocated.
 Mr. Dobson : There can be no change in the formula this year, because councils have to set their budgets by 11 March, but I can assure the hon. Gentleman that, if there is a Labour Government, there will certainly be changes in the allocation next year.
 Mr. Dobson : Spot on.
 Mr. Dobson : The hon. Gentleman is a clown.
 Mr. Dobson : Miserly.
 Mr. Streeter : Once again, my hon. Friend is on to a good point. The White Paper reforms announced last July are right and have acquired an unstoppable momentum. They will resolve the current shortfalls in the system. Colleagues will be pleased to learn that I am examining a number of proposals to deal with some of the more obvious abuses in the short term, including perverse decisions by area committees and soft opinions by some barristers to enable their clients to get legal aid. I will have more to say on that shortly.
 Mr. Streeter : In 1993–94, net expenditure on legal aid was £1.2 billion. In 1995–96, expenditure had risen to £1.39 billion, an increase of just under 15 per cent.
 Mr. Streeter : The hon. Gentleman has been diligent in championing the cause of county courts in Wales and I pay tribute to him. He will understand that the Court Service constantly monitors and reviews the viability of the court
 673
 Mr. Streeter : In 1967, there were 301 full-time county courts and 105 part-time offices. Currently, there are 240 full-time county courts and three part-time offices. Before the Lord Chancellor decides to close any county court, there is a full public consultation on the proposed closure.
 Mr. Streeter : I am sorry to learn of the hon. Gentleman's complaints about decisions that have already been made. He might have done better to come and discuss the matter with me at the time, but he will understand that it is important to review the efficient performance of the Court Service from time to time. We endeavour to make decisions that deliver access to justice at local level.
 Mr. Streeter : My hon. Friend has long championed a change in the law relating to liability for chancel repairs. He will understand that the likelihood of legislation in this Parliament is now remote.
 Mr. Streeter : My hon. Friend has been determined in pursuit of that important matter. He will know that the Law Commission report threw up some complex issues of principle and law that require full and careful consideration. Some of the concerns remain and we will of course continue to consider the matter carefully. I am sure that he will continue to lobby on behalf of his constituents.
 Mr. Streeter : No representation has been made to me specifically about the 1997–98 budget, although I have on
 674
 Mr. Streeter : My hon. Friend makes an important point. Our White Paper reforms are intended to bear down on and seize control of the legal aid budget to improve the service that we deliver. In contrast, the Labour party is talking openly and widely about expanding legal aid further by installing a law centre in every town and extending legal aid to industrial tribunals. Those proposals will cost the taxpayers many millions of pounds. There is an apparent conflict of interest when people call for an extension to the industrial tribunal system knowing that it would benefit themselves.
 Mr. Streeter : I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman has expressed his view in such strident terms. While the hon. Gentleman has been shouting and criticising from the sidelines, my hon. Friend the Member for Bolton, West has been working hard. Indeed, only last week, he brought to see me the chairman of the Bolton bench, and I believe that we have thrashed out a basis on which we hope to be able to support an interim refurbishment programme for the Bolton court. My hon. Friend has been working hard and getting results; the hon. Gentleman has been criticising from the sidelines and getting nowhere.
 Mr. Streeter : The hon. Lady makes an interesting point, and I accept that there are times when the service delivered by solicitors falls short. If she is aware of a specific case, I hope that she will raise it with me, the Law Society and other appropriate channels.
 The Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department (Mr. Gary Streeter) : My Department has been collecting information on the number of non-possession housing disputes dealt with by the small claims procedure as part of our monitoring of the effects of the rise in the small claims limit. The information is currently being assessed. The majority of cases dealt with by that route are for less than £1,000 and the fee for those cases has not been increased. Low-income litigants bringing such claims may also have their fee reduced to £10. Moreover, litigants bringing larger claims who are eligible for legal aid will continue to have their court fees paid by the legal aid fund.
 Mr. Streeter : The hon. Gentleman makes an important point. He will know that we have been moving towards full cost recovery of court fees for a number of years. It is important, however, to protect access to justice for those on modest incomes. We have done so in two ways: first, the Legal Aid Board continues to pay the court fees of those on legal aid and, secondly, those on low incomes who are not eligible for legal aid can apply for reduced fees. We believe that we have got the balance right. However, the hon. Gentleman must take something up with his own Front Bench. If Labour is criticising the increase in court fees, but refusing to say that it would reverse it in the unlikely event of forming a Government, that smacks of hypocrisy.
 Mr. Streeter : The green form scheme has never reimbursed court fees. It is a system for giving people
 671 The Guardian "Paul Boateng displays a shocking combination of ignorance and prejudice."
 Mr. Streeter : In accordance with the principle of judicial independence, my right hon. and noble Friend the Lord Chancellor made it clear in advice issued in 1989 that it is for each judge to decide individually whether to make public statements. A copy of that advice, which was sent to every judge at the time and is sent to new judges on appointment, is available in the Libraries of both Houses.
 Mr. Streeter : That was a fairly extraordinary outburst. On appointment in 1987, my right hon. and noble Friend the Lord Chancellor relaxed the rules to enable judges to speak out on issues of the day. It is important that experienced and senior judges speak out, express their opinions and take a full part in debates in the House of Lords. If the hon. Gentleman expects me to condemn my right hon. Friend, the chairman of the party, he is living in a fantasy land. It is important that members of the public make their views known, if they feel that sentences passed in local communities are not appropriate, by going to see or writing to their Members of Parliament. That is what we call democracy, and Conservative Members actually believe in it.
 Mr. Streeter : My hon. and learned Friend makes a valuable point. It is not appropriate for members of the judiciary to involve themselves in party politics; I am not
 672
 Mr. Streeter : Representations have recently been received from the Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department, my hon. Friend the Member for Bolton, West (Mr. Sackville), who is in his place, and from the chief executive of the Bolton metropolitan borough council. The Bolton scheme is in our existing programme, but was not selected as part of the first tranche to be taken forward, as others had an even more urgent need. A further selection is due to be made in the autumn.
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : I thank my hon. Friend for that answer, although it was disappointing. This is a complex issue and the problem is that those people with the liability find that it is arbitrary both in the timing and in the amount that they have to pay. Will my hon. Friend accept that it is an anachronistic concept? Tithes were redeemed with compensation some time ago. Does my hon. Friend accept that that should be the ultimate aim for chancel repairs liability? Will he seek to continue to discuss the problem with the relevant parties so that something can be done?
33.  Mr. Clifton-Brown : To ask the Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department when he plans to introduce legislation to implement the recommendations of the Law Commission in its report "Property Law: Liability for Chancel Repairs", Law Commission No. 152. [12250]
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : The hon. Lady has spent her entire speech criticising the present distribution system. Does she recall her interview with the  Local Government Chronicle "Of course we will be looking at it but I would not like to promise major changes at this stage. I know too much about it to be flippant enough to say you can quickly shift it."
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : The hon. Lady may be deceiving my electors in Gloucestershire. Opposition Front Benchers have already agreed not to increase expenditure next year, the year after and the year after that. If the hon. Lady is proposing an increase in overall expenditure for local authorities, will she please tell us where the money will come from?
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Geoffrey Clifton-Brown  (Cirencester and Tewkesbury) : I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to catch your eye. As I have only about 10 minutes in which to speak, I shall not accept any interventions. 742 The Sunday Times 85 Hansard 743
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : I thank the hon. Gentleman for allowing me to intervene, which I do in a constructive manner. The Environment Committee—an all-party Committee—spent a great deal of time examining the current SSA system. We concluded, on the basis of all the evidence that we heard—we heard evidence from all the experts—that, although the system was not perfect, it was the best yet devised. Today I have heard much criticism of the system from the hon. Gentleman and from his colleagues, but none of them has been able constructively to tell the House how they would reform it so that it is fair to all councils.
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : I thank the hon. Gentleman for giving way, but he cannot have it both ways on council tax. My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Environment has progressively lightened the capping regime to allow councils more discretion in expenditure. The Labour party wants to increase council tax, but the hon. Gentleman is criticising councils that exercise that discretion. He can either have the discretion and the increases or not have the discretion or the increases. Which way does he want it?
 Mr. Geoffrey Clifton-Brown  (Cirencester and Tewkesbury) : Will my right hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : I am sure that the hon. Member's point has been noted.
 Mr. Bermingham : Does the right hon. Lady agree that if she made any inquiries in, for example, the Derbyshire peak district, south Lancashire and the Fylde area around Blackpool, about the wages paid there, she would find that they are currently in excess of what is likely to be the minimum wage? [HON. MEMBERS: "How much?"] To continue, is it not reasonable in rural areas, where one of the primary sources of income is the tourism industry, that people who work in that industry should receive a decent living wage, which would protect not only their rights but the rural economy generally?
 Mr. Prentice : Do not judges feel that their independence is being compromised, as Lord Ackner very recently said in another place? Will the Minister join me in condemning the views of the chairman of the Conservative party, the Minister without Portfolio, the right hon. Member for Peterborough (Dr. Mawhinney), who was exhorting members of the public to write to judges and seek to intimidate them if they handed down sentences that were considered too light? Is it not about time that we took the appointment of judges away from politicians and instituted an independent system for appointing members of the judiciary? Will not many judges otherwise be fearful mat, if they speak out on controversial matters, they will be blackballed by the Government and not promoted?
30.  Mr. Gordon Prentice : To ask the Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department what guidance he (i) has issued and (ii) plans to issue to judges on the subject of public statements on (a) constitutional matters and (b) other matters of current party political controversy. [12247]
 Mr. Prentice : The hon. Gentleman says that the bridge is being closed by a Labour council. A total of £130 million is needed to repair all the London bridges, including Westminster bridge. The riparian boroughs made a submission for £44 million, but the Government allocated only £22 million and that is why Hammersmith bridge is closed. West London could seize up because of that. For Conservative Members to try to make cheap party political points beggars belief. The revenue support grant settlement contains no increase at all for highway maintenance. 749
 Mr. Prentice : No. I have only a few minutes.
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : I agree with some of what the hon. Member for Ludlow (Mr. Gill) said, but it is a pity that it has taken him 18 years to discover the truth.
 Mr. Prentice : Indeed. The Secretary of State was trumpeting the education increase of 3.6 per cent. That is totally fictitious. My hon. Friend the Member for Holborn and St. Pancras said that the figure is correct only if the education spending increase is loaded on to council tax payers. If all education authorities throughout Britain had to spend at the SSA level, which is the level that the Government think is right for all the authorities, there would be not an increase next year, but a decrease
 750
 Mr. Prentice : Ordinarily, I would give way, but I am conscious that many of my colleagues have been in the Chamber all day and will not have an opportunity to make a contribution, so I want to keep my comments brief.
 Mr. Harry Barnes  (North-East Derbyshire) : Does the hon. Gentleman accept the enhanced population figures with which my hon. Friend the Member for Holborn and St. Pancras (Mr. Dobson) dealt?
 Mr. Cohen : Have not citizens advice bureaux expressed dismay at the hike in court fees which they describe as being targeted at those least able to afford them? As the setting down for trial fee will be £150 and it will cost a tenner even to apply for an exemption for a court fee, will it not be easier for bad landlords to harass and evict tenants and harder for tenants to use the law to protect themselves?
29.  Mr. Cohen : To ask the Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department what monitoring arrangements he has established to ascertain the effects of the new system of county court fees on low-income tenants seeking to use the judicial system. [12246]
 Mr. Harry Greenway : I welcome all new sporting facilities, including all-weather pitches. Is my hon. Friend aware of the serious situation that will arise if the new football stadiums are not taken up in 2006 for the World cup? Is it not a disgrace that Union of European Football Associations has gone behind the Football Association's back to promote Germany rather than this country without telling anyone?
 Mr. Booth : In addition to that praise of Greenwich, may I ask my right hon. Friend whether holding the millennium celebrations there—on a derelict 400-acre site which is the last in central London to require urban regeneration, and which is one of the most polluted in the world—will not only transform it from dereliction to celebration but represent a great event for the normal people of London and a great triumph for the Government?
3.  Mr. Bayley : To ask the Secretary of State for National Heritage what representations she has received on the impact of the airport tax on tourism in the United Kingdom. [12218]
 Mr. Bayley : The Minister will be aware that, in its first year, the airport duty raised £350 million for the Treasury. Has his Department make representations to the Treasury proposing that some of that money should be used to expand the job of the British Tourist Authority abroad to encourage tourists to come to Britain?
 Mr. Bayley   rose
 Mr. Hugh Bayley  (York) : The Secretary of State will recall that, when the City of York was established as a unitary authority, people in the outlying areas that were absorbed into York received an assurance from the Government that their services and, in particular, their schools would be funded at the same level as the county council's, yet the SSA for City of York council has increased by less than the national average—by 1.1 per cent. compared with a 1.5 per cent. national average—and North Yorkshire county council's SSA has been increased by 2.4 per cent.
 Mr. Sproat : The hon. Lady makes an extremely important point. She is certainly accurate in saying that the Football Trust has suffered because of the effect of the lottery on the pools industry. I am meeting
 670
 Mr. Sproat : The Government remain committed to delivering essential football ground safety improvements agreed following the Taylor report.
 Mr. Sproat : The hon. Gentleman makes an important point, which I will draw to the attention of the distributor body.
 Mr. Sproat : The National Lottery Charities Board has made 6,925 awards totalling £478 million to charities and voluntary organisations. The other distributing bodies have made a total of 5,194 awards totalling £2.352 billion, many of which will also have gone to charitable and voluntary organisations.
 Mr. Sproat : My hon. and learned Friend is right. Well over half the awards funded by the distributing bodies have gone to voluntary charitable organisations. He is also right that, so far, there is no evidence that giving to charities has fallen. We are looking into that at the moment and hope to provide interim results in May. As for his third point, getting young people off the streets is extremely important. The National Lottery Charities Board funds the crimecrackers-Belgrano scheme in Wales and a scheme in Leeds to get young people into things other than crime in their spare time, particularly the many sporting facilities that it provides. Those are all good ways of channelling the energy and enthusiasm of young people.
 Mr. Sproat : No, it has not, because it is a well-known principle of government—it obtained under Labour Governments as well as the present one—that the Treasury does not like hypothecated income.
 Mr. Sproat : We have had representations from several tourism organisations. Tourism is a prosperous and expanding industry, and there is no evidence that the duty has had any significantly damaging effects on tourism. Indeed, since the duty was introduced in 1994, we have had record numbers of overseas visitors to the United Kingdom.
 Mr. Sproat : I am glad about the improvement in the railways. It is true that the amount of money spent by our population on tourism has gone up at the same time as the spend by foreign visitors has increased. The answer to my hon. Friend's question is that the tax has not affected things one way or the other.
 Mr. Sproat : It is certainly true that Wembley stadium is probably the biggest brand name stadium in the world, and that lottery money will be used to refurbish it to the highest possible standards.
 Mr. Sproat : The lottery sports fund for Wales has so far supported the provision of 20 all-weather pitches throughout Wales. The English lottery sports fund has so far supported the provision of 149 all-weather pitches, costing more than £11 million. In total, the national lottery has made more than 2,465 awards of some £428 million to provide new, improved and upgraded sports facilities across the UK.
 Mr. Sproat : There are two simple answers. First, it is a matter for the national heritage memorial fund, which makes decisions about how moneys will be disbursed. Secondly, there will be opportunities for clawback in the
 658
 Mr. Sproat : My hon. Friend is right to draw the attention of the House to the improvements that the National Heritage Bill will make. It will mean that lottery funds will be able to be used for the acquisition of individual items, as they are now, and it will mean that education, information technology access and other matters beyond preservation and maintenance will be able to be dealt with by the national heritage memorial fund.
 The Minister of State, Department of National Heritage (Mr. Iain Sproat) : The heritage lottery fund has made 33 grants for nearly £27 million for the acquisition of items of historical importance which might otherwise have been exported overseas. I have arranged for a full list to be placed in the Libraries.
 Mr. Sproat : It is certainly true that all-weather pitches are an extremely important addition to current sports facilities. Although 20 such pitches in Wales have been provided by the lottery, there are actually 62 all-weather pitches throughout Wales. The hon. Gentleman makes an important point, but all-weather pitches are not the only facilities that need to be provided. Where they are, however, the sports councils for Wales and England will take them fully into account.
 Sir Irvine Patnick : Pardon?
 Sir Irvine Patnick  (Sheffield, Hallam) : I follow the hon. Member for Hemsworth (Mr. Trickett) and note that many hon. Members from Yorkshire constituencies are present. With you in the Chair, Mr. Deputy Speaker, at least what we are saying will be understood. "Government grant to Sheffield has actually gone down in cash terms by £2.8 million and the Council Tax is likely to have to be increased at the capped level by 8.1 per cent." 722 "the quality criteria weightings for capability assessment, systems procedures. Council values/flexibility and user interface upon which the tenders have been evaluated" "the quality points scored by the two lowest tenderers". 723 "Councils are making their budgets at the moment and they're entitled to know where they stand. And I've made it quite clear that whatever settlement the Government forces through the House of Commons at the end of this month"— "will apply for the coming year—and that, of course, includes the capping limits which the Government has set."
 Sir Irvine Patnick : I am sorry. I thought that I was going to have an aberration. The jokes have been the same, but there has been no new policy. I am sure that the hon. Member for Holborn and St. Pancras will not mind me saying that he has increased his volume of delivery. "You may have heard Frank Dobson say a couple of nights ago to local government: 'You have to work within the existing spending limits.' We could not be clearer about this, and if there are any proposals at all they will be made clear to people, but nothing in this programme implies rises in personal taxation." Sunday Times 724 "replacement of the House of Lords by a democratically elected second chamber … establishment of democratic parliaments in Scotland and Wales … devolution of power to the regions and communities of Britain", The Daily Telegraph "should not be prevented from stating … strong principled support for an issue, just because it would unbalance the books." "few authorities have a consistent and coherent approach to three crucial questions: How many staff do they need? How much should they be paid? How can they get the best from their staff?" "There is a great deal we can do with a budget of £600 million a year, and we ought to be doing it better than we currently are." "The Council probably has the capacity to make enormous improvements in the services it currently operates, with the resources it currently has." The Sheffield Star 725
 Sir Ivan Lawrence : Is it not a fact that all the good causes are charities and that the total so far received is nearly £3,000 million? Will my hon. Friend confirm that, although originally there were fears that charitable giving would fall off as a result of the lottery, that has not happened? Will he also confirm that one of the best ways to deal with the scourge of juvenile crime is to devote as much of the resources as possible to getting young people off the streets and into better sporting facilities and artistic facilities, or engaging them in other activities that will lead them away from delinquency?
 Sir Ivan Lawrence : Does my hon. Friend agree that it would be far better for the respect with which the judiciary is held if it were never tempted to get into any party political arena and never given the opportunity to do so?
8.  Sir Ivan Lawrence : To ask the Secretary of State for National Heritage how many charities have been awarded grants from the national lottery. [12224]
 Mr. Jack Thompson  (Wansbeck) : Conservative Members' contributions have been intriguing. I have heard all but one of their speeches. They have made many criticisms—the Secretary of State was no exception—of Labour and Liberal-controlled councils. Conservative Members have not asked why there are Labour and
 744 745 "Dear Mr. Swithenbank I know it saddens you to preside over the end of education in Northumberland"— "but that will be the impact of the cuts being considered. It is true you will still have a schools system, albeit an underfunded one, but education is more than schools. There are many other opportunities being denied to children just because they live in Northumberland, whether these be in Music and Drama, Outdoor Education or from a lack of practical activities in overcrowded classrooms. There is no equality of service within Northumberland as long as rural children are educated in a class of 6 while urban pupils are with over 40 others and each is demanding the attention of one teacher. Five years ago, when asked about the closure of small schools, you said the savings were not significant. Last night you said it would require fifty to close—well the saving from 10 closed schools over 5 years is more than that from fifty closures in one year. This may be the price to be paid for living in a rural area but it should not be at the cost to children in urban South East Northumberland." [Interruption.] 746 "whilst most discontent has been directed at the ACA, it should be focused more appropriately on the SSA system as a whole."
 Mr. Jack Thompson : The hon. Gentleman represents a constituency in Northumberland, as do I. I am sure that he is fully aware that Conservative councillors support the county council's view. His own colleagues in Northumberland do not support his arguments.
 Mr. Jerry Hayes  (Harlow) : In the light of what my right hon. Friend has just said, is he surprised that the Opposition Front Bench is holding up Harlow council as a model Labour authority? That council has the second highest council tax in the country. It spent £28,000 on flowers and a flower bed outside the town hall. It blew all its reserves shortly before the previous general election because it believed that a Labour victory would produce a Government who would bail it out. If anyone wants to see the horrors of a Labour Government, let him or her come to Harlow.
 Mr. Jim Cousins  (Newcastle upon Tyne, Central) : This is the fag end of a Parliament and of a Government. The sole remaining serious business of the Government is to make life as difficult as they can for those who will come after them to pick up their burdens. 734
 Mr. Cousins : Did the hon. Gentleman argue in favour of unitary status for Southend and, if so, why did not he consider those issues then?
 Mr. Jim Cousins  (Newcastle upon Tyne, Central) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I too have an interest in the West Middlesex University hospital.
 779
 Mr. Gummer : Will the hon. Lady explain why no Labour chairman of any of the associations has ever used
 762
 Mr. Gummer : My hon. Friend is too kind to Harlow council. In 1994, it spent 34.2 per cent. over its standard spending assessment. It was 66.9 per cent. over that assessment in 1995–96. It is budgeted to spend 63.2 per cent. over its SS A in 1996–97. It is one of the worst councils in Britain. However, it is held up by the Leader of the Opposition as a model council. It is the sort of council that reflects what Labour would do in office—over-spend, over-tax and then over-spend and over-tax again. The task of clearing up the mess will then be passed on. That is what Harlow has done and what a Labour Government would do. [Interruption.] 683
 Mr. Gummer : I thank my right hon. Friend for his comments. I accept the fact that some people will be in favour of the changes and some against, so there will still be difficulties when I come to the House in a year's time. I am not sure whether I shall be able to carry out the work as quickly as that: it may take a bit longer, but I shall do my best.
 Mr. Gummer : I must make progress. I shall give way shortly.
 Mr. Gummer : My hon. Friend might also have said that all the things that the Opposition education spokesman wants in our education system could have been his when he was in Sheffield. However, there were no school uniforms, no standards and no comparisons then. The issues that matter so much now did not arise when the hon. Gentleman was in Sheffield. That is why most of us do not believe him when he speaks on education now. When he had the chance—it is the only chance that he will have—he did nothing to promote the very causes that he now takes so much to heart. 682
 Mr. Gummer : It is only fair that I give way to the hon. Member for Coventry, North-East (Mr. Ainsworth), because he has asked me several times.
 Mr. Gummer : An equally powerful, all-party group from the inner London boroughs could point to other
 684
 Mr. Gummer : I shall have quite a lot to say about Westminster in a moment. If the hon. Gentleman will wait until then, he will find out what I have done. I hope that he noted that I took considerable pains, and encountered considerable difficulty, to meet Coventry city council's need for a particular way of looking at its problems in relation to the assessment of those receiving benefit. I also hope that he agrees that we try to meet requirements wherever that is possible.
 Mr. Gummer : We do that all the time, and we listen carefully to the views of the Labour-controlled associations of local authorities. From what I say later on, the hon. Gentleman will see that I have followed their views in some of the changes that we have made, and in the changes that we have not made. If he is referring to what John Humphrys the other morning called the "mathematics of the madhouse"—I refer of course to the mathematics of the hon. Member for Holborn and St. Pancras (Mr. Dobson)—I shall have a good deal to say about that later.
 Mr. Gummer : We have concentrated on education because we have good reason to believe that the majority of people feel that it should be a priority. That is as true in Cambridgeshire as elsewhere. If a local authority does not passport through the money, as is provided for, it will be for the electorate to ask it whether it shares their priorities. If it does not, they will no doubt know what to do when the county council elections come along on 1 May. I confidently expect that Cambridgeshire will be returned to sensible hands that will do the job properly.
 Mr. Gummer : I have not given the Liberals an opportunity to speak. As only one of them is here to take such an opportunity, I shall give way.
 Mr. Gummer : What an amazing admission from the hon. Lady. She means that Cambridgeshire is so perfect that it can make no savings at all. She does not mention any possibility of anybody running anything better. What public company could begin to argue, year on year, that the next year it had to do everything as it did it before, or could constantly talk only about extra money and extra means?
 Mr. Gummer : We have done a great deal of efficiency saving. I shall give one example. There has been an enormous reduction in the number of civil servants and an enormous extension of outside contracting in my Department. I am now happy to preside over a Department that does a great deal more at a very much lower cost than before. That is the result of efficiency savings—something to which the hon. Gentleman cannot point in Liberal-controlled Newbury. I shall have something to say about that later.
 Mr. Gummer : At the request of local government, we have a system that gives two tranches. Local government felt that it would be easier to account for the real cost of redundancies after reorganisation if it were done in that way. My hon. Friend is right. Anyone who has said the opposite in Hereford and Worcester can have done so only for party political reasons. "The Council probably has the capacity to make enormous improvements in the services it currently operates, with the resources it currently has".
 Mr. Gummer : I understand the reason for that attack: Councillor Bower seems to have discovered that, over the years, two prominent members of the Labour party did not have the fingertip control of finances that the right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East claims that the Labour party has caught on to. Councillor Bower has let the cat out of the bag.
 Mr. Gummer : I noticed that Labour Members laughed at the figure of £500,000, as if that were not a large amount or one that really mattered. We know their attitude to mathematics. We are currently investigating the case, to determine whether it is in accordance with compulsory competitive tendering. It is no surprise that the Labour party is opposed to competitive tendering, as it knows perfectly well that it does not want the competition or to look after the ratepayers; it wants only to pay for the trade unions, in whose pocket it increasingly is.
 Mr. Gummer : The hon. Gentleman knows that we are discussing with local authorities precisely how we should deliver on our commitments, and he will no doubt find that those commitments are honoured fully. Perhaps he will recognise in future that this problem, like many others, must be faced squarely. We cannot allow problems to continue to arise in the way that they do at present.
 Mr. Gummer : The disaggregation between the City of York and North Yorkshire county council was done by mutual agreement—both sides agreed to the disaggregation. Of course, it is right to say that in future we may look again at the way in which various figures are put together. However, the hon. Gentleman should not make the figures for this year the subject of disagreement between us, as there was agreement between the two local authorities involved. It was one area that did not have the fierce arguments that almost cause the need for someone outside to broker an agreement.
 Mr. Gummer : I accept that it is widely felt that the present system does not reflect the situation as it really is. Local government organisations believe that this is not the right basis on which to move to a permanent change. I said that I shall do my best to ensure that we make a change as soon as possible—I hope that it will be next year. My hon. Friend must accept that that is the strongest assurance that I can give. We want a system that is acceptable to all, but it must have stability. He was the first to point out that we do not want a yo-yo position, whereby one cannot compare one year with another. I shall do my best to provide stability and to achieve the change that is necessitated by the extra work.
 Mr. Gummer : We shall certainly have to consider all the ramifications. That is why we have offered, for example, immediate help in two tranches to those that are reorganised. We shall of course have to consider the
 687
 Mr. Gummer : The hon. Gentleman does not notice the truth. Westminster received proportionately more under Labour: in comparison with what other authorities received, it received more. That is a fact; that is the fact that Labour Members criticise; that is the fact that my figures in the Library prove. The hon. Gentleman's whole case is shot below the waterline, and he knows it. 686
 Mr. Gummer : I shall be happy to give way in a moment, but I must get one more paragraph in first. 685 "never felt compelled to agree with experts."—[ Official Report, "a more sophisticated system for equalising needs than any overseas system examined in this study and … an improvement on its predecessor in many respects". "no overseas country appears to have a full grant system which goes so far in its attempt to achieve full equalisation".
 Mr. Gummer : I must try to continue, although I promised the hon. Member for Newham, South that he could intervene, and I keep my promises.
 Mr. Gummer : I remind the hon. Gentleman that we recently made some changes along those lines. However, we understand that, in general, the capping arrangements are now to be supported by the Labour party. If he believes that there should be a change in the arrangements, I suggest that he first speaks to the right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East. He has said that, far from what was said last November, there would be no question of any relaxation, were there ever to be a Labour Government. He has said that capping arrangements would remain as they are, at least for the foreseeable future. So the hon. Gentleman must first convince the right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East, and then he can perhaps come to me.
 Mr. Gummer : I must get on with my speech, but I shall give way to the hon. Gentleman later. [Interruption.] 688 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Gummer : Yes. Then, to be fair, I shall give way to the hon. Member for Newham, South (Mr. Spearing).
 Mr. Gummer : In a moment—I shall try to, but I must continue. 690 "no allowance for inflation, the cost of pay increases or the cost of providing extra services for the growing number of old people and of children at school" "local people will once again have to pay more and get less".—[ Official Report, 691
 Mr. Gummer : The hon. Gentleman should consider what the Labour party suggests on capital receipts. It now
 689
 Mr. Gummer : It is of course true that it is a national matter, but it has a local dimension; it is a mixture— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Gummer : If what the hon. Gentleman says is true, is it not surprising that he appears to muddle up different sorts of authorities? More important, if what he says is true, why does not one of the Labour-controlled local
 695
 Mr. Gummer : Can the hon. Gentleman just answer this question? If it is as he says, why have the local authority associations not asked for the root and branch change that he is proposing? Given that he has made this speech on previous occasions, why have none of the four associations supported him? He has made it at least five times to my certain knowledge.
 Mr. Gummer : The hon. Member for Holborn and St. Pancras knows perfectly well that he asked for details that are in the Library. These prove him to be wrong and me to be right. The hon. Gentleman has repeated something that is not true. The Labour party gave a greater grant proportionately to Westminster than the present Government, and that shoots his argument below the waterline.
 Mr. Gummer   rose
 Mr. Gummer : They are comparable.
 Mr. Gummer : My right hon. and hon. Friends will opt for party loyalty tonight. Their constituents know that the figures obtain because when a local council spends more than it ought to, it does not receive as much grant. Otherwise, the rest of the country would be subsidising overspending Harlow and Basildon, as well as the other Labour overspenders. Will the hon. Gentleman answer one simple question? When Labour was in power, did it give proportionally more grant to Westminster? If it did, the figure that he quoted earlier would be better than the figure when Labour was in power. How would he explain that to the country?
 Mr. Gummer : May I ask the hon. Gentleman the following very simple question? He uses the word "racket", so will he please explain why, in almost four years as Secretary of State for the Environment, none of the local authority associations in any of the many friendly and reasonable meetings that I have had with them—even though such associations are controlled largely by the Labour party—has ever asked me to do what he is saying ought to be done?
 Mr. Gummer : On 27 November 1996, I issued my proposals for the 1997–98 local authority finance settlement for consultation. They included the provision for local authority spending, the level of central support for that spending and my proposals for calculating standard spending assessments. I also announced provisional capping criteria.
 The Secretary of State for the Environment (Mr. John Gummer) : I beg to move,
 That the Local Government Finance Report (England) 1997–98 (House of Commons Paper No. 203), which was laid before this House on 27th January, be approved.
 Mr. Gummer : I will move on a little, but I shall remember the hon. Gentleman and shall not miss him in a moment or two.
 Mr. Gummer : Perhaps I may get on to the meat of my speech.
 Mr. Gummer : As I have always told my hon. Friend, if new facts or a different way of looking at things emerge and the council wants to talk to me about them, I shall listen—my Ministers and I have always sought to listen. Last year, we had that situation—one does do that—but there are also difficult positions elsewhere.
 Mr. Gummer : I always take into consideration what the hon. Gentleman says and I think that he will agree that I have dealt with a number of specific cases. I hope that he will take into consideration the words of the right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East (Mr. Brown), who said that if a Labour Government came to power,
 677
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. John Horam) : I am pleased to have the opportunity to respond to the remarks of my hon. Friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth (Mr. Deva). I congratulate him on securing time to debate the development of the West Middlesex University hospital, which provides crucial services to his constituents. I am aware of his unceasing efforts in pressing the case for improved hospital services in his area. I know that he has left no stone unturned in his efforts to see that West Middlesex University hospital has suitable modern facilities. I know that my hon. Friend the Member for Twickenham (Mr. Jessel) feels equally strongly and has been equally unceasing in his efforts to secure better facilities for his constituents. 778 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Horam : The hospital achieved a significant improvement in the percentage of patients seen within 30 minutes of an out-patient appointment time. I wholly agree with my hon. Friends the Members for Brentford and Isleworth and for Twickenham when they say that first-class medicine is being conducted in what are clearly out-of-date facilities. There is no doubt that something must be done to improve them. 780
 Mr. John Marshall  (Hendon, South) : My right hon. Friend spoke earlier about the need for efficiency in spending public money. Is he aware that when the London borough of Barnet put its refuse collection contract out to tender, it refused to accept the lowest tender, and voted instead for an in-house contract that would cost the
 679
 Mr. Marshall : I thank my hon. Friend for that answer. Does he accept that most people welcome some control over the legal aid budget, which they think has got out of control? Most people are appalled that the shadow Lord Chancellor wants to extend legal aid to industrial tribunals, which will cost the taxpayer dear and benefit his chambers.
34.  Mr. John Marshall : To ask the Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department what representations he has received about the 1997–98 legal aid budget. [12251]
 Mr. John Marshall : Does my right hon. Friend recall the comment of Mr. Jacques Delors, who said that Britain's exemption from the social chapter would act as a magnet for inward investment to the United Kingdom? Is that not as true for the tourism industry as it is for manufacturing industry?
 Mr. Trickett : I will not give way again, because the hon. Gentleman's previous point was so absurd that I can
 721
 Mr. Trickett : It seems to me, as the new boy, that the duty of the Opposition is to oppose, and not necessarily to make detailed proposals—at least not at this stage. It is up to the Government to propose a system, to live with the consequences and to face the Chamber's probing.
 Mr. Trickett : I shall not give way again, because that was an extremely silly point. The point that I am trying to make—I do not think that the hon. Gentleman is listening—is that the system is operating in an entirely perverse manner. How can a system allow such a result? If Wakefield were to receive the same per capita levels of RSG and SSA as Westminster, we could give away £825 to every household in the district and provide current service levels. That demonstrates the problem.
 Mr. Trickett : It was very cold. I recently referred to that in Committee. I should like to share these comments with all hon. Members. It was so cold that parts of my anatomy—certain extremities—have still not defrosted, at least according to my wife. 718 719
 Mr. Jon Trickett  (Hemsworth) : I think that I heard the hon. Member for Wellingborough (Sir P. Fry) refer to the current settlement as tight. In Wakefield, the region that I represent, it is far more than tight; it is devastating. It will devastate local communities. As you are no doubt aware, Mr. Deputy Speaker, even as we hold this debate, local councils are meeting to discuss precisely how to cope with the financial crisis. On the reform of local government finance, the settlement may be tight, but what is unacceptable is that it is inequitable. It is precisely that which is at the core of the Labour party's charges against the current settlement.
 Mr. Trickett : My hon. Friend makes a telling and important point. A range of indices is used within the calculations, some of which are given far too much weight, while others are almost entirely ignored. For example, the devastating impact of the closure of mines on the local economic and social infrastructure should be taken into account.
 Mr. Trickett : I thank the Minister for raising that issue. There are two or three issues to consider in the way in which the SSA system works, and the first is the system's obscurity. It is difficult for lay individuals, elected officials, hon. Members and, undoubtedly, Ministers to understand precisely how the figures are derived. When one analyses them, in many cases, it is difficult to justify the weight given to certain factors. Ethnicity is a difficult example, and it could bear further examination. I do not believe that an individual should be rewarded by additional funding under the SSA simply by
 720
 Mr. Jon Trickett  (Hemsworth) : When will the Government have the nerve to call the general election?
 Mr. Mans : I thank my hon. Friend for that answer. Will he explain how the new National Heritage Bill will contribute towards keeping ever greater numbers of items in this country? Will he explain also how the Bill will allow lottery funds to be used for items that at present do not come within their remit?
1.  Mr. Mans : To ask the Secretary of State for National Heritage if she will list those items of historical importance which have received national lottery funding in order to keep them within the United Kingdom. [12216]
 Mr. Cunliffe : Is the Minister aware that supporters of animal welfare charities are anxious because they are not getting their rightful share, considering the size of some of those organisations? They believe that they are discriminated against to some degree because they are not fashionable organisations, such as those for sport, culture and the arts. Will the Minister remind the distributing bodies that such organisations play a positive role in helping to create certain pleasures for society?
 Mr. Fisher : If increasing access for young people really is the Secretary of State's top priority, how does she explain the fact that her Government, through their dogmatic hostility to local authorities, which she has demonstrated again this afternoon, have presided over the reduction to a rump of our theatre and education network in schools, the destruction of peripatetic music teaching and the virtual elimination of all individual instrument teaching in schools? Is that the way to increase access? Has she ever had a meeting with the Secretary of State for Education and Employment to discuss increasing access through education and, if not, why not?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : Order. I think that I heard an hon. Member use the word "lying" from a sedentary position. I would be grateful if the hon. Member concerned would withdraw that word or confirm that she did not say it.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I am most grateful to the hon. Lady. I think that the hon. Member for Holborn and St. Pancras (Mr. Dobson) had the Floor.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Conventions are not the responsibility of the Chair.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for that observation. Had he been a little more observant, he would have checked at what time the hon. Gentleman came in. I can assure him that the Chair did so. As hon. Members will note, I have called two Labour Members in succession.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I call Mr. Peter Atkinson.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : Order. The conditions in this Chamber are that an hon. Member either gives way or does not and they must be respected.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker) : Order. The hon. Gentleman should retract what he has just said. That is not the type of language that should be used in the House.
 Mr. Michael Clapham  (Barnsley, West and Penistone) : I was interested that the hon. Member for Southend, East (Sir T. Taylor) said that local councillors are hard working and require encouragement: that is precisely what the Opposition try to give. 740 741
 Mr. Clapham : I thank my hon. Friend for his intervention. I have asked the Minister to respond to that issue. Perhaps he will tell us what assistance we can expect from the Government.
 Mr. Mike Hall  (Warrington, South) : Very cold.
2.  Mr. Ainger : To ask the Secretary of State for National Heritage if she will take steps to provide an all-weather pitch to every community in excess of 5,000 people using proceeds of the national lottery. [12217]
 Mr. Ainger : Is the Minister aware that in my county council area, which covers a population of 110,000, there are only two all-weather facilities? Does he accept that the best way of distributing lottery money fairly in terms of improvements to sports facilities is to provide all-weather facilities? That is the view taken by sports development officers. Rather than spending a significant sum on a few individual and high-profile capital investments, is it not about time that we started spreading more lottery money into rural areas and providing basic facilities that take account of Britain's appalling weather?
 Mr. Raynsford : Does the Secretary of State agree that, although some hon. Members on both sides of the House might have preferred another location, there is only one logical location for Britain's millennium exhibition—in the place to which the entire world will be looking in the year 2000? The meridian line in Greenwich determines time around the world. Now that we have a proper and sensible budget to which we can work, is it not essential to focus on making a success of the exhibition, so that all hon. Members and people across the country can take pride in it, as the rightful successor to the great exhibitions of 1851 and 1951?
6.  Mr. Nigel Evans : To ask the Secretary of State for National Heritage what assessments he has made of the impact of the social chapter on the United Kingdom tourism industry. [12221]
 Mr. Evans : I am delighted to hear that, but does my right hon. Friend agree that it is not only Conservatives who are giving out warning signs about the social chapter and the minimum wage? Does she agree with the chairman of Bass, Sir Ian Prosser, who said that Bass was conscious of the difference between social on-costs in the UK of 10 per cent., and in Italy of 43 per cent., or with Forte, which says that social on-costs are 50 per cent. in France and Germany? Does she agree that it is pointless the Labour party talking about having a tourism strategy when it makes no reference to the fact that, if it introduces
 663
 Mr. Nigel Spearing  (Newham, South)   rose
 Mr. Spearing : Having heard Conservative Members' remarks in this debate, will the Secretary of State acknowledge that, two years ago, I led a deputation from Newham, when he acknowledged that Newham was an outer London borough with inner London needs? As my hon. Friend the Member for Newham, North-West (Mr. Banks) pointed out, one of those needs is connected with the social costs of 15,000 refugees. The Secretary of State has acknowledged that that is a national problem. However, there is a need for equity. Should not those additional costs be a national matter and not be laid upon residents in the areas to which refugees naturally tend to go? Is not the truth that he has done nothing yet about the matter?
 Mr. Spearing   rose
9.  Mr. Waterson : To ask the Secretary of State for National Heritage what meetings she has had with the tourism industry about the social chapter. [12225]
 Mr. Waterson : Does my right hon. Friend recall her excellent visit to Eastbourne pier last summer when she met representatives of the local tourism industry? Does she recall the concerns expressed about the effects of the social chapter and a national minimum wage? Does she agree that the danger of the social chapter is not just some of the provisions that already exist, but the fact that it could be extended limitlessly by the use of qualified majority voting? Would it not all end in tears?
 Mr. Deva : I am grateful for this opportunity to raise an issue affecting the health, care and well-being of a majority of my constituents in Hounslow, Brentford and Isleworth: the future of West Middlesex University hospital. The hospital also serves the constituents of my hon. Friend the Member for Twickenham (Mr. Jessel)—who works very hard on behalf of his constituents, and whom I am pleased to see in the Chamber for this debate—and of the hon. Member for Feltham and Heston (Mr. Keen), who is not here because he is indisposed, although he has sent his apologies. 774 775 776
 Mr. Nirj Joseph Deva  (Brentford and Isleworth) : Madam Speaker, thank you for this opportunity— [Interruption.]
 Sir Norman Fowler : Do I understand that, in addition to a vast amount of public money, my right hon. Friend is considering setting up a public corporation with a Minister in charge? Are we not getting into rather curious policy territory with the exhibition?
 Mr. Boateng : Is the Minister aware that court fees are not recoverable as disbursements under the green form legal aid and advice scheme? As they are not, will the Minister review the rules and regulations of that scheme to give at least some help to the poorest litigants? We will review the rules. Will he?
 Mr. Peter Atkinson  (Hexham) : For the benefit of the hon. Member for Wentworth (Mr. Hardy), I was here at the start of the debate. I had a reception for some of my constituents, so I have been absent and I apologise to the House. I am glad briefly to take part in the debate, particularly as the hon. Member for Holborn and St. Pancras (Mr. Dobson) is back in his seat as I wanted to congratulate him on his efficiency and economy—two issues that concern us both. 758
 Mr. Atkinson : I think that Conservative councillors would support the argument that the claim that there is to be a £10 million cut is bogus. They can add up the figures. I am glad to say that some of the local press are beginning to add up the figures, too, and are realising that the council is using the problems of their budget—I accept that there are problems and shall turn to them later—to play a political game, which damages the county council's credibility and makes it harder for us to address the real problems in Northumberland. 759
 Mr. Butler : I thank my right hon. Friend for that compendious answer. May I add that there is never any need for her to warn of visits to my constituency? Notice would be sufficient. 661
5.  Mr. Butler : To ask the Secretary of State for National Heritage what steps she has taken to make the arts more accessible to young people. [12220]
 Sir Peter Fry : The hon. Gentleman has clearly shown some of the unfairness of the present formula. Will he give the same assurance as my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State on changes to the area cost adjustment, bearing in mind the fact that any proposed change this year was effectively torpedoed by Labour-controlled local authority organisations?
 Sir Peter Fry  (Wellingborough) : I am not sure whether I am more pleased by the Secretary of State's comment that he will be standing at the Dispatch Box next year, or by his promise that progress will be made on the area cost adjustment. Will he underline what he has just said? Is it his intention that progress really will be made next year? I understand the problems that he has had to deal with for next year, but will he assure us that progress will be made, so that the unfairnesses that affect certain counties can, at last, at least begin to be reduced?
 Sir Peter Fry  (Wellingborough) : There used to be a saying among Conservative Members: "Vote Labour for higher taxation." We still say that, but we have just had a wonderful illustration of the fact that, if we vote Liberal Democrat, we shall be taxed even more than we would be taxed by a Labour Government. All that we have heard is a catalogue of complaints about more and more money being required. Does the hon. Member for Newbury (Mr. Rendel) not realise that there always will be a greater demand for public expenditure? He seems to forget that, because his party will never be in government—unless the Labour party lets the Liberal Democrats into government—he will never have responsibility for raising taxation to meet his demands. 714
 Sir Peter Fry : The hon. Gentleman asked me a question. If he is kind enough to allow me, I will now answer it. 715 "Action … will continue to ensure maximum use of services that are already funded. This means that directly provided services … must be used to the maximum." "Making sure that residential beds provided by the county council do not remain empty." 716 717
 Sir Peter Fry : Over the past three years, I have expressed extreme concern about the way in which the area cost adjustment has been defined and operated. Two years ago, I refused to support the Government in the Lobby because I felt that—
 Sir Peter Fry : The hon. Gentleman should give us the figures.
 Mr. Peter Hardy  (Wentworth)   rose
 Mr. Hardy : What about capital receipts?
 Mr. Hardy : From time to time in his speech, the right hon. Gentleman has tried to build divisions between different types of local authorities—for example, when he referred to Sir Jeremy Beecham. Does he agree that the vast majority of local authorities want a sensible relaxation in the capping level? He should look carefully at the possibility of relaxing the capping level, to allow local authorities to take from capital receipts their contribution to single regeneration budget repayments and capital challenge costs, so that they can contribute to the repair and essential maintenance of buildings that are beginning to fall apart because of neglect.
 Mr. Hardy : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Peter Hardy  (Wentworth) : I shall be brief, as part of the argument that I would have advanced has been presented by my hon. Friend the Member for Barnsley, West and Penistone (Mr. Clapham). My local authority is in a similar position to that of my hon. Friend, as we too need to know about the position on the supertram, which the Government support.
 Mr. Hardy : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I understood that hon. Members who had only just arrived would have to wait a reasonable time before being called. Some of us have been here all day.
 Mr. Hardy : No. The Minister will have a longer time to speak than I have. 760 "From each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs."
 Mr. Hardy : It is capped.
 Mr. Hardy : Would the hon. Gentleman care to comment on his calculation? He will agree that roughly two thirds of local authority expenditure goes on education. If the proportion of Westminster's population of children in school is half that in Rotherham, why does Westminster get between four and five times per head more from central Government?
 Mr. Luff : Does my right hon. Friend agree that that answer puts a different gloss on the Inland Waterways Association's rather negative campaign on canal funding? Her statement will bring great hope to Worcestershire, where the rejection by the Millennium Commission of the bid to refurbish the Droitwich barge and junction canals was so disappointing? Does she agree that such projects bring enormous benefits to a huge area—not just the
 660
4.  Mr. Luff : To ask the Secretary of State for National Heritage how many canal restoration projects have received funding from a national lottery funding body; and if she will make a statement. [12219]
 Mr. Peter L. Pike  (Burnley) : I want to turn the clock back to what the hon. Member for Bury, South (Mr. Sumberg) said at the start of the debate. He said clearly that the difficult decisions that would be taken in Bury as a result of its financial position would be blamed on Bury local authority. He said that the Labour council would be blamed for increasing council tax and cutting services. The hon. Gentleman is not living in the real world. 756 "The local government finance settlement is particularly bad for non-metropolitan districts. Provision for spending and the amount of grant they will receive for 1997–98 will severely restrict district councils' ability to respond to the demands on their services. This extremely poor settlement follows a run of bad settlements in recent years." 757
 Mr. Thurnham : Is the Minister aware just how deeply disappointed, indeed angered, people in Bolton are not to be getting the long-needed new court? Will he act now to restore Bolton to its first place in the priority, as it has long deserved?
31.  Mr. Thurnham : To ask the Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department what recent representations he has had about the need for improved magistrates court accommodation in Bolton; and if he will make a statement. [12248]
 Mr. Thurnham : Will the Secretary of State say what lessons have been learnt from the very high costs of the Greenwich site? Are we not in danger of spending too much millennium money in London, as there are plenty of derelict sites elsewhere in the country?
 Mr. Richard Tracey  (Surbiton) : I underline what my right hon. Friend the Member for Bridgwater (Mr. King) said. There is an agreed stance on the inequities between outer London boroughs and inner London areas. That was brought to the Secretary of State's attention by all-party delegations from the outer London boroughs. I hope that further studies will be undertaken with some urgency, because they will bring some rewards under the new Conservative Government.
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes  (Harrow, West) : I am sure that my right hon. Friend agrees that, regardless of party affiliations, a council leader's comments should be examined carefully. I hope that he shares my astonishment at the fact that the mention of Councillor
 681
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes : Will the hon. Gentleman give way on that point?
 Mr. Hughes : Is not one of the holes in the hon. Gentleman's argument the fact that local authority associations have not seriously queried the Secretary of State's methodology? If they did, as the marionette sitting
 700
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes : This debate has been revealing about Labour policy—or not even policy, but merely tactics. The hon. Member for Holborn and St. Pancras (Mr. Dobson) read out great lists of councils that he alleges would receive more money under a Labour party allocations scheme. In other words, Labour is promising any part of the country, any town, city or county, that a change in the allocation would give it more money. Is that not profoundly dishonest?
 Mr. Hughes : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes : Is that the policy that the hon. Gentleman has advocated?
 Mr. Hughes : Obviously, I do not know, because I do not know the hon. Gentleman's constituency well.  [Interruption.] 730
 Mr. Hughes : Being called a clown by the hon. Gentleman is praise indeed.
 Mr. Hughes : I should have said the twittering hon. Member for North-West Durham (Ms Armstrong). 729
 Mr. Hughes : With the greatest of respect, the hon. Lady spent most of her speech talking about Conservative Members. It is therefore perfectly reasonable for me to talk about Labour policy. I shall come to Conservative matters in a moment.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Hughes : If the hon. Lady had read it—it is a rather nice yellow—she would have the same figures as me.
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes  (Harrow, West) : Normally, one thanks Madam Speaker or the Deputy Speaker for calling one early in a debate. I am glad that I have not been called too early in this debate, because I have been able to listen with interest to various voices on the Opposition Benches. Opposition Members have been very good, followed their brief, kept their heads down, avoided the arguments and banged on about points made by Labour party researchers, which is very commendable from their party's point of view.
 Mr. Hughes : There are, of course, two sides to each element. In a sense, it is swings and roundabouts—sometimes one loses, sometimes one wins. Such arguments have to be put by individual local authorities. Indeed, local authorities have to try to persuade their political friends that such changes should be made. 731 732 733
 Mr. Robert Jackson  (Wantage) : As my right hon. Friend will recall, the Government kindly agreed that Oxfordshire faced particular problems last year and provided an extra £3.5 million in this year's settlement. It is my view and that of the Conservative group on Oxfordshire county council that the difficulties persist. I look to my right hon. Friend for an assurance that he will continue to look seriously into the case that is being put to him.
 Mr. Roy Thomason  (Bromsgrove) : On budgeted expenditure, will my right hon. Friend confirm that he has
 680
 Sir Teddy Taylor  (Southend, East) : The speech by the hon. Member for Newcastle upon Tyne, Central (Mr. Cousins) has been the only speech that I have enjoyed in a debate that has been appalling. In general, I try to avoid these debates because basically they are made up of a politically motivated exchange of views that are a load of rubbish and, unfortunately, one finds that the Opposition say today what the Conservative party may well say if there is a change of Government after the election. The situation is complex, with standard spending assessments, grants and capping levels. Unfortunately, it is so complex that it is possible for almost everything to be misinterpreted. [Interruption.]
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I am sure that there have been many changes, but I am making a simple, basic point. Is it or is it not true that the last Labour Government gave 50 per cent. more to Westminster than to Liverpool, and that the wonderful—or miserable, depending on one's point of view—Conservative Government are giving it only one third more? 736
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I supported Southend becoming a unitary borough, because I always feel that it is better
 737 738
 Mr. Dicks : Why is my right hon. Friend so concerned about making the arts more accessible to young people? Most of the kids I know would go bonkers if they had to sit through anything like that. Why subsidise this? Why spend taxpayers' money on such nonsense? If kids want to go to the ballet or the opera, or to see classical plays, either they or their parents ought to be made to pay the economic costs. This is not just a subsidy; we are worse than the lot on the other side.
 Mr. Jessel : As well as all those other schemes across the country, does not my right hon. Friend think that people at home and abroad will be absolutely astonished and utterly amazed if we get to the millennium—once in a thousand years—without some grand, national, central exhibition to celebrate it?
 Mr. Toby Jessel  (Twickenham) : It is a Labour council.
 Mr. Jessel : If the hon. Gentleman will forgive me, I will not give way as I have only a few minutes left. 752
 Mr. Toby Jessel  (Twickenham) : It is a pleasure to have been invited to take part in the debate, but I was astonished by the temerity of the hon. Member for Pendle (Mr. Prentice)—if he would give me his attention for one second—when he referred to Hammersmith bridge, as the news of its closure was extraordinarily sudden. We were given only a week or two's notice. Hammersmith and Fulham council simply failed to inspect it and everyone has been taken by surprise by its sudden closure. That has considerable effects throughout west London, and it will cause great inconvenience to hundreds of thousands of people, including many of my constituents. He might have been wise to have kept quiet on the subject. 751
 Mr. Toby Jessel  (Twickenham) : I warmly congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth (Mr. Deva) on his initiative and success in winning the ballot for tonight's debate on West Middlesex University hospital. He is second to none in his zeal and energy in fighting for all his constituents. "comment on the private finance initiative in relation to West Middlesex University hospital, which is a matter of eager and enthusiastic interest to my hon. Friend and me." "give us any encouragement on that matter, which is important for our constituents so that the existing, old hospital"— "it is one of the many schemes that local managers are preparing to meet real local need with health authority support and that the Government are determined to see carried through to projects that modernise the capital stock— "of the health service. I can give him every encouragement that the Government are determined to carry that through."—[ Official Report, 777 "the trust and consortium that are behind the scheme are now meeting twice a week to give it maximum impetus. I hope that it will proceed at full speed."—[ Official Report,
 Mr. Tom King  (Bridgwater) : I trust that all hon. Members recognise the duty on local authorities at all times to search for improvements in efficiency, and I warmly endorse what my right hon. Friend said in that respect. It is the duty of Government to ensure that grants are as fairly distributed as possible. The statement that my right hon. Friend has just made on the area cost adjustment will be particularly warmly welcomed in Somerset, where it is profoundly believed that the last attempt to review the matter was not satisfactory. We warmly welcome his promise that the work will be undertaken and that its results will be implemented as speedily as possible.
 Mr. Tony Banks  (Newham, North-West) : It is clear that leadership of Sheffield city council is a passport to becoming a Member of Parliament, so no doubt we shall eventually welcome Councillor Bower to this place.
 Mr. Tony Banks : May I say to the Secretary of State that there is nothing more artistic than a 40 yd pinpoint pass from Ruud Gullit or a pirouette from Gianfranco Zola on the football field? It is little wonder that football has been described as working-class ballet. Will the Secretary of State ensure that the working-class ballet is brought to this country in 2006 for the World cup, and that, when she and her colleagues go to protest about the failure of UEFA to consider the English bid, she takes the Leader of the Opposition with her so that we can see that there is an all-party effort to secure the World cup for Britain in 2006?
 Sir Wyn Roberts : Does my right hon. Friend agree that it is precisely the small business element of the tourism industry, to which she referred, that would suffer most as a result of the introduction of the social chapter, the 48-hour working week and the minimum wage? Will she view with considerable suspicion the tendentious conclusions of the report on employment emanating from Brussels today?
11.  Sir Wyn Roberts : To ask the Secretary of State for National Heritage what assessment she has made of the effects of imposing the provisions of the social chapter on the tourism industry. [12228]
 Mrs. Alice Mahon  (Halifax) : Is my hon. Friend aware that a 6 per cent. cut in Calderdale will require raiding the primary school budget by about £1 million, central services by about £1 million and possibly not funding the teachers' pay rise? That is a triple whammy and anyone who votes for the motions tonight will be betraying the children of Calderdale.
 Mrs. Anne Campbell  (Cambridge) : I am most grateful to the Secretary of State. To return to the subject of Cambridgeshire for a moment, is he aware that the £6.5 million that has been allocated for Cambridgeshire's education has been swallowed up by £8.4 million in inflation and an extra £1.3 million merely to stand still, because of the extra children in the county? That is hardly a fair deal, when we already have class sizes approaching 40 in some of our primary schools.
 Mrs. Dunwoody : Instead of talking about the amount that legal aid costs, why does not the Minister astonish the House by looking at the way in which legal fees are raised by solicitors who spend well over a year deciding on whether or not to pursue a case—all the time seeking legal aid fees—and who then tell some of my poorest constituents that there is no case to pursue? If he were doing his job properly, there would be more than enough money to extend representation to industrial tribunals.
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley : The tourism industry is one of the most dynamic in this country, containing one in 12 of all small businesses and with 20 per cent. growth in employment over the past 10 years. The year 1995 was a record one for the industry and indications are that 1996 will be even better. We must ensure that the industry is not damaged by unnecessary burdens and I have discussed that point with industry leaders.
 Mrs. Bottomley : My right hon. Friend is precisely right. One in 12 small businesses are involved in tourism and hospitality. The key is to ensure that there is a minimum of regulation, that liberalisation is promoted and that burdens are removed from employers. If one listens to the industry, one finds that that is the message that it gives time and again; that is the message that we have heard. When we set out our further strategy for tourism and hospitality later this week, we shall do so on the basis of working with the industry and not on the basis of imposing our ideology, as the Labour party does.
 Mrs. Bottomley : Undoubtedly it would all end in tears. I well remember my visit to my hon. Friend's constituency; I was most impressed by all that I saw, especially his pier, which was one of the influences, during the year of the pier, in our trying to modify the lottery rules to ensure that private as well as public owners could receive lottery money. My hon. Friend is entirely right. The tourism industry needs flexibility and the social chapter would be a huge threat and danger to it.
 Mrs. Bottomley : My hon. Friend identifies one of the most powerful influences in current political debate. Time and again, when people in the tourism and hospitality industry talk about what they most fear, it is the interfering, regulating, domineering approach proposed from Brussels and supported by the Labour party.
 Mrs. Bottomley : The Labour party never listens and never understands. It has heard representative after representative in the industry make it clear that a statutory minimum wage has an adverse effect on employment.
 669
 Mrs. Bottomley : Nobody wants poverty pay and sweated labour; that is precisely the Labour party's argument. I have said time and again that the industry wants well-motivated, well-rewarded staff with proper training; that is precisely what our work has been setting in hand. Coercion and compulsion are not the way in which to achieve that goal. That has been made clear time and again; people do not do the right thing because they are coerced into it.
 Mrs. Bottomley : I do not think that I need reassure the House of the strength of feeling among all Ministers about the bid. The stadiums in this country are now formidable: they are of extremely high quality, thanks to substantial investment in them. Euro 96 was a great triumph, and I shall do all that I can to secure that long-term bid.
 Mrs. Bottomley : I well remember my excellent visit to my hon. Friend's constituency. The lottery is bringing new opportunities to his constituency, as to so many other areas. There is the magnificent Wavendon project: I strongly commend its summer camps, which are involving more young people in a love of music and the arts. There is also the splendid £19 million project for the borough council, to promote its theatre. As my hon. Friends the Members for Milton Keynes, North-East (Mr. Butler) and for Worcester (Mr. Luff) are well aware, involving young people in worthwhile, constructive activity is extremely important.
 Mrs. Bottomley : My hon. Friend has said that he will escort me to various arts events. We have not yet managed to arrange any such visits, but I am determined that he will join me at, for example, the National Youth Theatre. A £2 million lottery award enabled the theatre to buy its lease, and it provides opportunities for youngsters from all over the country. I know that, like me, my hon. Friend worries about young people who may be more bored than bad. Providing worthwhile activities, whether in sport or in art, is an excellent way of growing the citizens of tomorrow.
 Mrs. Bottomley : Once again, the Labour party is good at preaching to other people about homework, but it never does its own. I wonder whether the hon. Gentleman has actually read "Setting the Scene", in which he will find a programme of action to encourage more involvement by young people in the arts—despite my hon. Friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington (Mr. Dicks)—including the appointment of a schools governor, the involvement of the Office for Standards in Education, consideration of the school curriculum and consideration of all manner of practical ways in which to invest in the arts and young people.
 Mrs. Bottomley : I am well aware of the economic effects of investing in our canals, and the huge opportunities for canal projects that are provided by lottery funding. I met someone at the boat show from the project to which my hon. Friend referred. Those involved in inland waterways were enormously excited by the potential for the holiday and leisure industry of this substantial investment.
 Mrs. Bottomley : The hon. Gentleman knows that I visited that museum and was very impressed by it.
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley : Increasing access to the arts, particularly for young people, is a top priority for my Department. In the last year, I have published "People Taking Part", a handbook of good practice on facilitating access; "Setting the Scene", containing a wide range of recommendations and commitments to encourage a greater involvement by the young in the arts; and "Treasures in Trust", which encouraged museums to look at new ways of reaching a wider audience. The national lottery has had an enormous impact in delivering the objectives, reviving the arts infrastructure throughout the country and now, through the new "arts for all" scheme, creating new revenue opportunities for a wide range of groups and organisations.
 Mrs. Bottomley : I told the hon. Gentleman, because it would have been contrary to usual practice to visit without having given him prior warning. He shows that the Labour party would ensure that all lottery money went to its friends in local government and elsewhere, and would dictate policy. It wants to dictate the distribution of lottery funds. Lottery funds are distributed by independent bodies, and judgments on particular projects are a matter for them. I hope that a great deal more money will go to museums, as set out in our excellent policy document "Treasures in Trust".
 Mrs. Bottomley : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for accepting that as a planted question, because I wanted to tell him that Greater London has received only 15 per cent. for capital projects, as opposed to 19 per cent. for the northern region. To date, £767 million has been awarded to 94 projects in 2,045 sites across the United Kingdom. As I said, only a small share of that money has come to London from the Millennium Commission. In the past quarter, the largest increase was in the area in the west midlands represented by my right hon. Friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield (Sir N. Fowler).
 Mrs. Bottomley : It is the view of the Millennium Commission and the Government that the right structure for the operating company is a non-departmental public body, for which the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster will be responsible—because, as chairman of the Millennium Commission, I cannot pay the grant to myself in another capacity. I know my right hon. Friend, and I was very surprised to hear him ask his question without mentioning that he is absolutely delighted by the launch of the Digbeth millennium point—a £50 million project in Birmingham—and by the many other ways in which the national lottery has supported his constituency, thanks to his active championing of the case.
 Mrs. Bottomley : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman should debate the design with his noble Friend Lord Richard Rogers, who may feel that it is a subject for a television debate with the hon. Gentleman. 665
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley : As I informed the House on 20 January, an exhibition will take place in Greenwich to mark the millennium. Significant progress has been made on the project since then. Greenwich council gave planning permission last week and I understand that English Partnerships is close to completing its purchase of the site. The detailed design work is well under way and contracts have been let for work to begin on site. The millennium exhibition will be a showcase for Britain; it will be enlightening and enjoyable, involving the nation as a whole.
 Mrs. Bottomley : My hon. Friend is exactly right. There has been a substantial increase in employment in the tourism and hospitality industry. It would be the most hard hit by the imposition of a minimum wage and social chapter. "This year the London Inter-Continental will run a gross operating profit 50 per cent. higher than the sister hotel in Paris. The difference is entirely in the costs of social benefits and insurances for which employers in France are liable. Put yourself in the position of a multi national corporation and I ask you which is the country you are more likely to invest in? Which economy is the more conducive to generating new jobs?"
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley : With the help of the Government's reforms, British enterprise has created an increase in employment of well over 500,000 jobs since 1993. The social chapter would damage labour market flexibility, raising costs, destroying jobs and reducing competitiveness in world markets. The Government will never willingly place unnecessary burdens on business, such as a statutory minimum wage or the social chapter.
 Mrs. Bottomley : I remember that comment. The tourism industry is flourishing—and is doing so because Britain has a Government who believe in deregulation, in liberalisation and in reducing the burdens on and the interference with employers. We want a well-motivated and well-employed work force, but not at the diktat of Brussels.
 Mrs. Bottomley : First, I welcome the right hon. Gentleman to our questions. We have missed him greatly. He looks refreshed from his world travel. It is a pleasure to have him back with us, from, I understand, visits to different parts of the world.
 Mrs. Bottomley : I do— [Interruption.] 666
 Mrs. Bottomley : Yes.
 Mrs. Bottomley : I thank my hon. Friend. The opportunity of such a major regeneration project close to the heart of our capital city is enormously worthwhile. I recently travelled on the new Jubilee line to see the large underground station that will be available at the site.
 Mrs. Bottomley : The right hon. Gentleman knows full well that neither the Government nor the Millennium Commission had any intention of signing a blank cheque. The Labour party had a nominee on the commission. Information has always been readily available. I am delighted about the magnificent project, which I believe will be delivered to budget, in spite of the shameful scaremongering and positioning of the Labour party in recent weeks and months, which can only threaten the project, rather than achieve the result that would be in the nation's interest.
 The Secretary of State for National Heritage (Mrs. Virginia Bottomley) : Canals and other inland waterways have been at the heart of many successful lottery bids throughout the country. They act as a focus for regeneration in their surrounding areas. So far, four major canal restoration projects have received lottery funding of nearly £52 million.
10.  Mrs. Bridget Prentice : To ask the Secretary of State for National Heritage what steps she is taking to ensure the continued implementation of the recommendations of the Taylor report. [12226]
 Mrs. Prentice : I thank the Minister for that reply. He is clearly aware of the problems facing the lower league clubs in implementing the safety work at their grounds following the impact of the national lottery on the Football Trust income from pools companies. He will also be aware that the Football Trust has now put a moratorium on any further awards. When he meets the Football Trust, will the Minister take a positive approach to ensure that all possible solutions are examined to ensure that those clubs can implement that important safety work?
 Ms Hilary Armstrong  (North-West Durham) : The Secretary of State is lying. He said that himself in a letter.
 Ms Armstrong : I am happy to withdraw it, and I shall deal with the issue in my winding-up speech.
 Ms Hilary Armstrong  (North-West Durham) : I am delighted that my hon. Friend the Member for Wentworth (Mr. Hardy) managed to speak in the debate. We tried to cut short the winding-up speeches so that as many hon. Members as possible could speak. Most hon. Members have expressed concern about constituency issues. Indeed, many Conservative Members upheld our contention that the allocation system is unfair and needs to be tackled. It is remarkable that, after all this time, and after having constructed and reconstructed the system several times, the Government have still not managed to come up with a system of grant allocation that gets anything like support on both sides of the House. 761 "More and more Tory MPs thought that the logical solution was for central Government to take over completely."
 Ms Armstrong : I am coming to the hon. Gentleman. Perhaps I can deal with his intervention then.
 Ms Armstrong : The Secretary of State has already demonstrated this afternoon that he has little credibility, and he is continuing that.
 Ms Armstrong : I shall certainly deal with that. In his speech, the hon. Gentleman raised various issues that demonstrate that his only information source has been the Tory central office brief. I expected more from him. The Daily Telegraph, "The Westminster case does matter because it is so illogical." "fundamental importance that justice should not only be done, but should manifestly and undoubtedly seen to be done." 763
 Ms Armstrong : The problem is that the Minister has written to me, after many months of my trying to get an answer, to say that the figures for the year that the hon. Gentleman has cited are not in any way comparable with the current figures for Westminster. He said:
 "In my written answer, I pointed out that figures on a comparable basis, to facilitate year on year comparisons, are available only from 1992–93 onwards."
 Ms Corston : What about the Government's policy?
 Ms Corston : No. I have given way to the hon. Gentleman and he can make his own speech later. "Why is the Government behaving so illogically towards Bristol?" "The only remaining cuts are of people." 727 Bristol Evening Post "making final choices will not be easy." "no one will envy the councillors the tough choices they must make." "How do you choose between employing fewer teachers and closing an old folks' home?" 728
 Ms Jean Corston  (Bristol, East) : I welcome the opportunity to talk about the funding crisis facing the city of Bristol. For this financial year, Bristol city council had to reduce its budget by £20 million to £310.1 million just to stay within the capping limit set by the Government; half the £20 million of cuts have yet to be implemented. Just to stay within the capping limit for 1997–98, the council will have to reduce its budget by a further £16 million. 726
 Ms Corston : It is amazing that Conservative Members are increasingly behaving as if they were in opposition. We are debating a settlement that has been imposed by the Government and their record of 18 years. Let the hon. Gentleman defend that to the people of Gloucestershire; I do not have to do that.
 Ms Corston : I have the report.
 Sir Peter Emery  (Honiton) : Will my right hon. Friend take into account the fact that, although Devon county council cannot run a whelk stall, in the past two years, it has twice been given more than the average increase for its SSA, but has run its reserves down lower than is sensible, and lower than they have ever been? It suggests that it will give up educational discretionary grants because it cannot afford them, although the money would have been available if it had spent the budget properly.
 Hon. Members : Order.
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes : New clause 3 has at its heart a simple proposal that sounds attractive. It was mentioned
 844
 Mr. Hughes : That is extremely good of the Data Protection Registrar. Funnily enough, however, I was not referring to her. Although she may consider it perfectly right to do so under the regulations, she cannot possibly speak on behalf of pensioners and other potential claimants. The hon. Lady has raised an irrelevant point.
 Mr. Hughes : I am sure that some people would not object, but others might. Some elderly people are very proud and might object to the state taking an overview of their lives.
 Mr. Hughes : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. I do not wish to delay the House long, but there are two points to be made about the new clause. First, many pensioners would find its provisions grossly intrusive into their private lives; secondly, the information gleaned might be inaccurate and some people would be informed that they
 845
16.  Dr. Spink : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment how many local authorities have transferred their housing stock to new landlords. [12516]
 Dr. Spink : Has it not been proved beyond question that tenants in deprived and rundown local authority housing estates are far better served in every way by non-profit-making landlords? Will my hon. Friend denounce my local council housing committee, which will not speak to my local housing tenants' association?
 Madam Speaker : The hon. Gentleman's question related to Wolverhampton. However, it is 3.15 pm. Prime Minister's Questions.
 Madam Speaker : Order. If the hon. Gentleman wants me to examine written material, I think that I ought to have an opportunity to do so. He ought to send it to my office. I cannot comment on something that the hon. Gentleman is reading on the Floor of the House. What is the point of order for me?
 Madam Speaker : I should like very much, if I may, to have the material that the hon. Gentleman has. I shall want to look into it very carefully. It certainly concerns the activities of the House—I entirely agree with the hon. Gentleman about that.
 Madam Speaker : I thought that it was very illuminating to have improved lighting in the Chamber. I heartily endorse it. For a while, I thought that it was because I had cleaned my spectacles rather carefully this morning.
 Madam Speaker : It cannot be a point of order with which I have already dealt.
 Madam Speaker : The hon. Gentleman must be careful to recognise the difference between  Hansard Hansard
 Madam Speaker : The hon. Gentleman might have made it clearer.
 Madam Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss also the following: Government amendments Nos. 5 to 7.
 Madam Speaker : I appreciate the point of order raised by the hon. Gentleman. He has a right to complain, and to make a second complaint in a short space of time about the printing or non-printing of  Hansard.
 Madam Speaker : I am making a ruling—do you mind?
 Madam Speaker : I should think so. Hansard Hansard,
 Madam Speaker : Order. Not today, thank you. Perhaps tomorrow.
 Mr. Alan Howarth  (Stratford-on-Avon) : The Minister has been describing a number of initiatives involving data management that are already under way. Are those measures legitimate under existing law, or will the Bill put them on a sound basis ex post facto?
 Mr. Alan Howarth : In contemplating the Bill, we face a dilemma. We are all committed to introducing measures
 830 "any other matter relating to social security". 831
 Mr. Howarth : I think that the hon. Gentleman misunderstands me. I am not suggesting that there should not be data matching. I argue that data matching should be circumscribed by powers that enable the citizen to be protected. Limitations on data matching should be set out in a code of practice, which can evolve over time to match best practice internationally, and match agreements that we enter into. We would have flexibility within what I hope would be an absolutely resolute desire to strike the balance that we need between the civil rights of the individual citizen, particularly the citizen's right to
 832
 Mr. Alan Howarth : Will the Minister give way on that point?
 Mr. Howarth : I am grateful to the Minister.
 Mr. Alan Howarth : By the same token, is there not a demonology of the right as far as disabled people are concerned? Why are two clauses in the Bill particularly pitched at disabled people? Is that not at least as invidious?
 Mr. Alex Carlile  (Montgomery) : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that, in the neighbouring parts of rural Wales that he and I represent, the big lie that local authorities are to blame for cuts in local services is no longer believed by anyone?
 Mr. Alex Carlile  (Montgomery) : I begin by apologising for being late for the beginning of the debate. My lateness was the exact equal of the lateness of one of the few direct trains from north Wales. The fact that it is direct does not make it punctual, and regular travellers on that route say that it is extremely rarely punctual. That is just another symptom of what has happened to us in recent years. 892
 Mr. Carlile : The hon. Member for Clwyd, North-West (Mr. Richards) has abuse in his nature. One of the most offensive things about this House is having to sit opposite him and watch him perform in that revolting way. He is an insult to the intelligence. However, I will return to the subject of the debate, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Carlile : The way in which those functions are performed by local government is very much a local issue, and in common with most of our partners in Europe I believe that raising local taxes—such as a local income tax—to pay for local facilities is much more logical than the bizarre system that we have in this country. No doubt we shall be arguing that case in future. 893
 Mr. Rogers : The hon. and learned Gentleman has advanced the novel idea that local government should be the collector of taxation for central Government. He should bear in mind the fact that most of the functions that local authorities perform are imposed on them by central Government.
 Mr. Rogers : My hon. Friend makes an important point. New industries may come to the coastal areas of south Wales, but people from the valley communities will face a virtual penalty of £20 to £25 per week in travel costs. That means that the jobs are not, in effect, well-paid.
 Mr. Allan Rogers  (Rhondda) : I have never heard so many "opposition" speeches by Conservative Members. One would think that we were in government, as we shortly shall be, and that the Conservatives were in opposition. The Secretary of State and the right hon. Member for Conwy (Sir W. Roberts) were more concerned with Labour proposals than with their own. The right hon. Member for Conwy introduced the issue of a Welsh assembly. It is an interesting subject and I am sure that there will be many interesting debates on it, but enough of that for this evening. 877 878
 Mr. Faulds : I am sorry, Madam Speaker.
 Mr. Andrew Faulds  (Warley, East) : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker.
 Mr. Faulds : But it was a different point of order, in that case.
 Mr. Faulds : I am quickly devising a response, Madam Speaker—but, while I do so, may I say that I urge my hon. Friend the Member for Newham, North-West (Mr. Banks) to lurk in dark corners more often, and not to assert his ugly profile so publicly and frequently? Hansard 803 Official Report,
 Mr. Faulds   rose
 Mr. Mackinlay : While the upturn in housebuilding is good news, it also reflects the previous deep depression, in which—during the stewardship of this Tory Government—the housebuilding industry looked like
 782
Q2.  Mr. Rowe : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Tuesday 4 February. [12531]
 Mr. Rowe : The Lib-Lab coalition that runs Kent county council has said that it requires a grant increase of no less than 10 per cent. merely to stand still. Does the Prime Minister know of any other councils that are making a similarly absurd demand?
 Mr. Anthony Steen  (South Hams) : I beg to move,
 That leave be given to bring in a Bill to oblige Ministers of the Crown, when proposing either to implement any proposal under the European Community Treaties for legislation by the Council of Ministers or to introduce any bill or statutory instrument, simultaneously to propose the repeal of at least a similar quantity of existing legislation to that which they propose to implement or to introduce. 805 806
 Mr. Barry Jones  (Alyn and Deeside) : I look back fondly to the tenure of my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Aberavon (Mr. Morris) as Secretary of State for Wales. The shadow Secretary of State for Wales, my hon. Friend the Member for Caerphilly (Mr. Davies), made a shrewd speech tonight, and I am happy to support his remarks. I think that my hon. Friend the Member for Newport, East (Mr. Hughes) made the essential debating point when he said that, within a generation—little more than 20 years—two great reforms of local government were enacted, and the latter reform was totally under-resourced. Those local government reforms were very costly, and their consequences will be apparent for years to come.
 Mr. Sheerman : Can the Minister confirm that industrial waste is being spread on downland? Is he aware that 1 per cent. of Britain's waste is spread on the land, and that there is no efficient method of checking the quality of the waste or how dangerous it can be to the long-term prospects for agriculture? Will he consider an auditing system that works, talk to ADAS about it, and implement it quickly?
 Mr. Olner : While the Minister is considering the problems in Essex, will he turn his mind to the problems in Warwickshire—
 Mr. Walker : I have no hesitation in coming to the point of order, because I believe it to be fundamental and important to the Chamber. You know, Madam Speaker, how deeply I care about the way in which things are done in the Chamber.
 Mr. Bill Walker  (North Tayside) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I wish to draw your attention to a press release entitled "News from Scottish Labour." Its headline is "Public spending watchdog to inquire into Tory ad blitz on vouchers". It goes on to say:
 "Shadow Secretary of State, George Robertson MP today announced that the Hon Robert Sheldon, chairman of the powerful all party House of Commons Public Accounts Committee, will be raising the Scottish Office advertising campaign on nursery vouchers with the Comptroller Auditor General, Sir John Bourne, when he meets him tomorrow. The issue of a £800,000 advertising campaign just before a general election was raised with Mr. Sheldon by George Robertson yesterday, who questioned whether this was a proper use of public money." "Mr. Robertson said … 'Ministers may be operating within technical government rules, but the fact that they will piggyback Tory posters on taxpayer funded advertisements shows what a shabby exercise all this is.'" 802
 Mr. Chris Davies  (Littleborough and Saddleworth) : I warmly welcome the new clause, and urge the Government to accept it. Since 1988, there has been a 350 per cent. increase in the housing benefit paid to the private sector. As the hon. Member for Fife, Central (Mr. McLeish) said, the opportunities for fraud have increased considerably, and it is estimated that between £1 billion and £2 billion is disappearing into the pockets of fraudulent landlords.
 Mr. Chris Davies : I do not believe that any hon. Member can wish to do other than end benefit fraud. Money should, of course, reach those who are most in need, and not be siphoned off by people who are out for private gain, and defraud taxpayers and other claimants for their personal advantage. People should not, however, be able to take advantage of the bureaucratic obstacles that may exist now in order to play one Department off against another. We support the widening of powers to ensure that data can be cross-referenced to enable crooks and fraudsters to be caught out. 829
 Mr. Davies : With respect, we are dealing only with one new clause, which is aimed at landlords. Whether the matter should also be addressed in other ways is for the Minister to determine. It is for him to take the opportunity to table amendments at the appropriate time. If the Government wish to be tough on crime, they have an opportunity to demonstrate it.
 Mr. Chris Davies : On Second Reading, my hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale (Ms Lynne), the Liberal Democrat social security spokesman, gave the Bill a cautious welcome. She expressed some reservations about details, but said that, overall, it was necessary and welcome. At this late stage in the process, I echo those sentiments.
 Mr. Davies : The hon. Gentleman misses the point. He may be correct in saying that it is possible for computer hacking to be detected—if, that is, someone is aware that it is taking place, and bothers to go and check. There is clearly a huge difference between access to one filing cabinet in one Department and the ability to touch a computer keyboard and gain access to a full range of Government information on the screen. The technology that is now at our disposal, and the sheer amount of information on private citizens that is stored in Government offices, create an opportunity for the fostering of Orwellian conditions.
 Mr. Chris Davies : In supporting new clause 3, I should like to take up what I understand to be the Government's argument in opposing it, which is simply that it would be impractical and would not achieve their objective. If that is the case—and some Opposition Members believe that the Government's objective is not to increase public expenditure, even to help the most needy in society—why does the Minister not simply look at the wording of the new clause? It is well intentioned, relatively harmless and unlikely to cause any problems if the Minister were to accept it. The possible benefit to be gained is that more than a million pensioners might have the opportunity to secure some of the money to which the House believes them to be entitled.
 Mr. Christopher Gill  (Ludlow) : Has my right hon. Friend considered that the only way that we shall put this equation right, so that local government is totally accountable for its expenditure, is to remove the cost of education and social services from the local authority, and assume it as a national responsibility? If we did so, local
 860
 Mr. Gill : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the £90 million that the British Government will be called upon to pay for the new European Parliament building is 50 per cent. more than the cost of the royal yacht, and will return no benefit to the United Kingdom?
 Mr. Clifford Forsythe : I have no wish to detain the House, but I would like to make a few comments. I welcome the Bill again, as I welcomed it on Second Reading, and I support its implementation. However, I am very disappointed that new clause 2, covering the code of practice on privacy, was not accepted, because of the implications for Northern Ireland. 854
 Mr. Clifford Forsythe  (South Antrim) : I sat through the Committee stage of the Bill, and well remember the debate there on this matter. I recall a suggestion from Opposition Members that they would leave the clause until it came to the Floor of the House, so as to give the Minister the opportunity to think the matter over and perhaps bring forward something acceptable to the Opposition.
 Mr. Forsythe : I understand that, perhaps in a way that differs from the understanding of others on the Opposition Benches. I understand that the Government, and especially Ministers in the Department of Society
 814
 Mr. Forsythe : I think that the hon. Gentleman has misunderstood, or perhaps he has a preconceived notion of the road that I am going down. However, I think that the Minister understands exactly what I am saying. I am patiently trying to put the two sides of the argument and achieve a balance. I have not made up my mind, and I have not yet recommended to my hon. Friends how we should vote. But I shall listen carefully to the Minister.
 Mr. Soley : Bearing in mind the fact that one in seven children suffer from asthma, which is thought to be aggravated—and even occasionally caused—by air pollution, and given that nobody believes that the Government have coherent policies on transport or air pollution, what hope does the Secretary of State offer to those children and their parents?
5.  Mr. Soley : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment what recent representations he has received regarding air pollution. [12504]
 Mr. Cynog Dafis  (Ceredigion and Pembroke, North) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for drawing attention to the situation in Ceredigion. It is well understood in Ceredigion that the reduction of 1p in the standard rate of income tax is being paid for by the reduction in the level of service and an unreasonable increase in council tax. That will be worse next year if damping comes to an end without any compensatory increase through an adjustment in the SSA. Will he join me in requiring that the SSA must reflect the higher cost of service delivery in rural areas?
9.  Mr. Amess : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment if he will make a statement on the calculation of the element allowed for fire services in the standard spending assessments for Essex. [12509]
 Mr. Amess : Is my right hon. Friend aware that there is widespread concern throughout Essex at the way in which the Labour and Liberal-controlled Essex county council is trying to reorganise local fire services? Does he regret that some local politicians are unfairly trying to blame the Government for that? Does he recognise that local residents under no circumstances want Leigh-on-Sea fire station to be closed?
 Mr. Congdon : Does my hon. Friend agree that the representations from local authorities would carry more weight if they got their house in order by managing their resources properly, and in particular embracing compulsory competitive tendering? What further action will he take to prevent local authorities from trying to deter the private sector from making bids and when they make the lowest bids, doing everything in their power to find excuses to give the contract to their own in-house direct services organisation?
 Mr. Curry : Essex county council has done very well over successive years from changes in SSAs. Indeed, it has had significant additional funds. The fact is that the county can increase its budget by £19.5 million. The fire element increase is £1.5 million. None of that is hypothecated. If it chooses to do so, it could give priority to its fire service. The decision not to do so would be entirely that of local councillors.
 Mr. Curry : As I announced last week, the fire element of the standard spending assessment for Essex is £35.1 million for 1997–98—an increase of 4.6 per cent. on the same element for 1996–97, and higher than the national average of 4.2 per cent.
 Mr. Curry : I agree with my hon. Friend that, when we come to deal with the hard core of rough sleepers—it is a hard core; we have reduced the numbers significantly—we come across problems of mental health and of drink and drugs. Those are not problems to which the Opposition's simplistic answer, "Put a roof over his or her head," applies. A great deal of care is needed. A home is often the last thing that people in such circumstances need, because an enormous amount of work needs to be done before they have the competence even to contemplate looking after themselves. We need a co-ordinated approach to the problems. The rough sleepers initiative, now in its seventh year, adopts such an approach. It is a remarkable example of co-operation between the Government and the voluntary sector.
 Mr. Curry : It is curious to be accused of fudging the figures when I have just given two extremely precise figures. The hon. Gentleman ought to listen and use a little common sense. Homelessness is falling and there are measures in place to deal with it. He should also be cautious in assuming that homelessness and other social ills which result from, for example, the falling apart of families, the break-up of partnerships and many social trends of which he or I might or might not approve, can all be remedied by the Government. It takes only a little common sense to realise that the Government can do some things, but that sometimes we have to react just like everyone else—our reaction is comprehensive, effective and working.
 The Minister for Local Government, Housing and Urban Regeneration (Mr. David Curry) : Households that have been found accommodation by local authorities after being accepted as statutorily homeless numbered 55,530 in 1979 and 120,810 in 1995. Detailed changes—uncontroversial changes—to the reporting system were made in 1980 and 1982.
 Mr. Curry : We have sufficient evidence on transfers to know that tenants like them and that they work in their interests. In addition, tenants have to vote for them. Local authorities should be more interested in service and less in ownership. The case for local authority home ownership is long past, and we must look towards a more sensible arrangement.
 Mr. Curry : That is a piece of nonsense. The hon. Gentleman should accept that there is an extremely good case for transfers—his own local authority is one of our transfer authorities, and is trying to transfer houses on the Charlton triangle in Greenwich. Instead of being mealy-mouthed about this, he should recognise that, unless he is willing to pour large public sums into housing—his hon. Friend the Member for Oldham, West (Mr. Meacher) may be, the shadow Chancellor says that he will not and he himself says that he would like to, but does not know how—he should concentrate on doing what is possible, which is improving the conditions of those who live in council houses, and liberating them from local authority control.
 Mr. Curry : Fifty-three local authorities have transferred more than 230,000 homes, generating more than £3.7 billion of private investment. I announced at the end of last month the 1997 programme, in which a further 17 authorities will transfer all or part of their housing. The programme includes some 55,000 homes and will generate another £350 million in capital receipts.
 Mr. Evennett : I welcome what my right hon. Friend has done to improve air quality and to monitor the effects of pollution. Is he aware that, in my part of south-east London, there are still considerable air pollution problems? Will he continue to look into those problems and examine the results of the monitoring that is taking place in Bexley?
 Mr. David Nicholson : My right hon. Friend will be aware that there is a widespread welcome for the success of the rough sleepers initiative and its extension outside London to other centres. However, the success of the initiative is limited when it has to deal with homeless people who suffer from drug or alcohol dependency or mental illness. Will my right hon. Friend assure the House that his Department is working with other Departments, including the Home Office and the Department of Social Security, to ensure that the
 785
 Mr. Rendel : The Secretary of State has leaned heavily on what he describes as local government association support for his decisions on SSAs. When will the Government carry out official Conservative party policy to abolish capping which, unlike the right hon. Gentleman's policies, is supported by local government associations?
 Mr. Tredinnick : Will my right hon. Friend discuss with my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Transport the key problem of vehicle exhaust emissions? Is he aware that only 40,000 vehicles were tested last year and 6 per cent. were found to be above the limit? Particularly in respect of the M1, which carries the heaviest traffic, does he agree that that is a completely inadequate number, and that the Vehicle Inspectorate needs to test many more vehicles in order to cut down the toxic fumes from which we all suffer on motorway journeys?
 Mr. Dover : Does the Minister accept that, in fact, probably the large majority of small businesses pay no uniform business rates, because they operate from residential homes? Is it not time that the Government considered scrapping all business rating for small businesses, in view of the arbitrary lines that separate those who pay and those who do not?
Q4.  Mr. MacShane : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Tuesday 4 February. [12533]
 Mr. MacShane : Is the Prime Minister aware that his Chancellor is proposing so to increase air passenger duty that a family of four will pay an extra £80 on a family holiday? How does he justify that increased tax on children and family holidays?
 Mr. Skinner : Fiddled figures, and 4 million out of work.
 Mr. Turner : I am talking about Wolverhampton.
 Mr. Turner : If the Minister had visited Wolverhampton and met members of my local authority, they would have told him that the Government have imposed very serious cuts—real-terms cuts—on all standard spending assessment blocks, and that we in Wolverhampton have the worst revenue grant settlement of the 36 metropolitan districts.
 Mr. Denzil Davies  (Llanelli) : The Minister said that, in an ideal world, he would like to see an increase in local democracy, and more money raised locally. We would all agree with that, although we realise the difficulties. Why, then, does he have capping at all? Why not just put the capping aside and allow local democracy to take its course?
 Mr. Don Touhig  (Islwyn) : For the people of Wales in general, and for my constituency in particular, this financial settlement will prove to be severe in the extreme. It will have dramatic consequences for the level of services that Welsh local authorities provide, and it will mean that my constituents will pay more in council tax for a significantly reduced level of services. 890 "we have the most successful economy, with the highest growth and the best inward investment record, in western Europe."— [Official Report, "paint a very bleak picture for all local authorities in Wales … It is inevitable that there will be severe reductions in both revenue and capital spending coupled with double figure increases in council tax." 891
 Mr. Touhig : However much the Minister tries to fudge the figures, he cannot escape the harsh fact that homelessness has more than doubled under this Government. Will he therefore accept that the fact that his party has failed to deal with this problem, which affects the most vulnerable in society, is the strongest argument for a change of Government?
4.  Mr. Touhig : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment how many households were accepted as homeless by local authorities in England in 1996; and what was the equivalent figure for 1979. [12503]
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : It is a sad fact that, when there are two routes to a political destination—the high road and the low road—the hon. Member for Clwyd, North-West (Mr. Richards) will invariably choose the low road. 896
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : The capping limit in Wales is 1.8 per cent., whereas in England it is 2.6 per cent. What is the logic behind the difference?
 Mr. Donald Anderson : With that generous settlement, how many jobs does the hon. Gentleman expect will be lost in his local authority?
 Mr. Loyden : On several occasions, and again today, the Prime Minister has told the House that the economic policies pursued by his Government have been responsible for inward investment and job creation in Britain. How does he square that claim with the fact that 1,300 jobs at Ford on Merseyside, as well as many others, are threatened? Is it not time that the Prime Minister woke up to the fact that jobs are being lost daily throughout the country? As far as I know—I have checked with the Library—Merseyside is still part of Britain.
Q5.  Mr. Loyden : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Tuesday 4 February. [12534]
 Mr. Elfyn Llwyd  (Meirionnydd Nant Conwy) : The right hon. Gentleman has mentioned Gwynedd council twice. Perhaps he should have told the House that the council had to raise its tax by 25 per cent. last year. To impose a similar tax this year would be totally unrealistic. It could not be paid anyway, could it?
 Mr. Llwyd : I agree entirely—that is probably the system's biggest deficiency, and it needs addressing.
 Mr. Llwyd : That is absolutely true, and it will be further understood in the coming weeks and months, and rightly so. There is no doubt that, when people say that central Government have been judged unfairly, they are talking palpable nonsense. If central Government had even a modicum of respect for local government, they would redress that balance. I agree entirely with the hon. and learned Gentleman. 886 887 "All in all, the 1997–98 RSG settlement has to be one of the worst ever settlements for local government and, therefore, the local taxpayers." 888
 Mr. Elfyn Llwyd  (Meirionnydd Nant Conwy) : This evening sees the annual ritual of special pleading by hon. Members who are concerned about the finances of their local authorities. However, our ritualistic complaining belies a serious problem—the precarious position of Welsh local authorities. Furthermore, their difficulties are no fault of their own. For the past five or six years, heavy expenditure cuts have been imposed on local government year on year. One is tempted to ask where it will all end.
 Mr. Llwyd : Subject to capping.
 Mr. Llwyd : "Shut up".
 Mr. Llwyd : I do not want to get into the European argument at this point. 889
 Mr. Dobson : The Minister's answer, in effect, only promises more of the same, which we all know is inadequate. Why will not the Government agree to the release of the takings from the right-to-buy sale of council houses, so that they can be invested in building new houses and improving old ones? That would create jobs in the building industry and provide new homes; and it would create new jobs in the building supply industry, whether they be for people making carpets in Halifax and Brighouse, people making electrical fittings in Basildon, or people making doors and windows in Keighley?
 Mr. Dobson   indicated dissent.
 Mr. Field : Ah, that is what we want.
 Mr. Frank Field  (Birkenhead) : I should like to set the new clause in context. It is an extraordinary turn of events for the Minister to find himself in his current position. It must appear to the outside world that he is softer on crime by landlords than on crime by claimants.
 Mr. Field : No, I am not denying that. I await with anticipation the Minister's speech, in which I hope that he will put forward cogent arguments as to why the Government do not accept the new clause. I was merely warning him that, if he fails to do so, he will stand in the dock appearing to the public to have two standards—one for claimants and a gentler one for landlords, as the hon. Member for Littleborough and Saddleworth (Mr. Davies) has just said. 811
 Mr. Field : Indeed there should be equality. It is not too late for the Minister to table a manuscript amendment to that effect. We are anxious to make a distinction between fraud committed by individuals and that which is seriously organised by groups of people. The public are most concerned about that.
 Mr. Field : The biggest landlords in the country are local authorities. The Opposition are as clear about preventing fraud among them as they are about preventing it among landlords in the private sector. There are no double standards on the Opposition Benches. It is interesting how standards are developing on the Conservative Benches. If we wait long enough before the excitement of the Under-Secretary's reply, we will no doubt see new Conservatism.
 Mr. Field : The Minister has misread the situation. We relied on the people in the field who are countering
 815
 Mr. Frank Field : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Field : On that precise point?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Passing reference to an assembly is one thing, but talking about it in detail is another.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I am trying to listen to the hon. Member's point of order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Hon. Members are responsible for their own speeches.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The Secretary of State should confine his remarks to the debate on the rate support grant (Wales).
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : I call Mr. McLeish.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : I understand that with this, it will be convenient to discuss the following motions:
 That the Special Grant Report (Wales) 1997 (HC 219), which was laid before this House on 3rd February, be approved. That the Limitation of Council Tax (Relevant Notional Amounts) Report (Wales) 1997–98 (HC 220), which was laid before this House on 3rd February, be approved.
 Mr. Sutcliffe : How will housing needs be met? Housing association grants have been cut, and, because of political dogma, the Government will not allow councils to build houses. So how will the Government achieve the 4.4-million target in new houses by the turn of the century? Who will build those houses when the Government will not give local authorities the opportunity to do so?
3.  Mr. Gordon Prentice : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment how many houses in east Lancashire (a) are unfit for habitation and (b) require repairs to bring them up to a habitable standard. [12502]
 Mr. Prentice : Does the Minister appreciate that 67 per cent. of properties in Pendle were built before 1919, which is the highest percentage of any local authority in England outside inner London? Does he further appreciate that 25,000 properties there are in need of repair and that 5,400 are unfit? Ministers presumably want people to live in warm and comfortable homes, so why have Conservative policies been such a failure in north-east Lancashire?
 Mr. Allen : Will the Minister point out to the outgoing hon. Member for Gravesham (Mr. Arnold), as well as to the hon. Members for Dartford (Mr. Dunn) and for Dover (Mr. Shaw), that all Kent's Tories trooped through the Lobby last night to impose the local government settlement on Kent? It is that settlement, not Kent county council, that will force council tax payers in Gravesham to find another 20 per cent. of the cost of their local services, and voters in Dartford to find another 30 per cent., while the Tories' cronies in Westminster pay only 10 per cent. Will the Minister urge Kent's Tory Members, in their few remaining weeks in this place, to do what Chris Pond will do in Gravesham, Howard Stoate will do in Dartford and Gwyn Prosser will do in Dover, and speak up for Kent in this place, instead of constantly denigrating it?
6.  Mr. Pope : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment what discussions he has had with the local authority associations on standard spending assessments. [12505]
 Mr. Pope : Can the Minister confirm that, following this year's financial settlement, the Government are responsible for forcing up council tax bills by more than 6 per cent.? Will he further confirm that, if Hyndburn council received the same assistance from the Government as Westminster, it would be able to give every band D council tax payer a rebate of £572? Is it not the case that we have to pay more so that Tory Westminster can pay less?
Q3.  Mr. Janner : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Tuesday 4 February. [12532]
 Mr. Janner : Has the Prime Minister seen the findings of the Employment Policy Institute, which show that some 4 million people in this country are seeking work? In those circumstances, will he use his speech in Brussels tonight to explain to our European partners why the Government's so-called unemployment figures are rigged, inaccurate and deliberately misleading, and that the only people in this country who deserve to be unemployed are the clapped-out, stale and fag-end Government?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Gwilym Jones) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Gwilym Jones) : I am grateful for the welcome that has been given to the settlement by my right hon. Friend the Member for Conwy (Sir W. Roberts) and by my hon. Friends the Members for Vale of Glamorgan (Mr. Sweeney) and for Clwyd, North-West (Mr. Richards). I even wish to note a rare appearance by the hon. and learned Member for Montgomery (Mr. Carlile). 900 Western Mail, 901
 Mr. Harry Cohen  (Leyton) : I support the new clause, which provides for a code of practice on privacy. First, it does not adversely impact on data matching for anti-fraud activity. All it does is ensure that such activities comply with a code of practice that is approved by the Data Protection Registrar. "The registrar wrote to my right hon. Friend, the Secretary of State, on 10 January about the scope of the disclosure of information powers contained in the Bill, advocating the introduction of a statutory code of practice for DSS datamatching activities."—[ Official Report, 108. "Liberty today published a legal opinion from two leading lawyers, one of whom is a Queen's Counsel, which states that the "Datamatching" provisions of the fraud Bill breach the right to privacy contained in the European Convention on Human Rights." "The opinion is by Richard Drabble QC and Dinah Rose who are experts in social security and the law of the European Convention on Human Rights and advise the government on such matters." "Personal data should not be communicated outside the framework of social security for other than social security purposes except with the informed consent of the person concerned or in accordance with other guarantees laid down by domestic law." 833 "The information to be contained in personal data shall be obtained and personal data shall be processed, fairly and lawfully." "Personal data held for any purpose or purposes shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to that purpose or those purposes." "for use in checking the accuracy of information relating to benefits, contributions or national insurance numbers or to any other matter relating to social security and (where appropriate) amending or supplementing such information." 834
 Mr. McLeish : I think that there are two other Opposition contributions to be made before I speak, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. McLeish : It is a pity that the Government have seen their anti-fraud strategy start to unravel during our final discussion on the Bill. The whole House is tough on fraud, and there is no point in trying to defend individuals or landlords—or organisations of both—who try to defraud the taxpayer. In doing so, they create a climate in which many people are accused of scrounging. That is a travesty, and that is why we must continue to be tough on fraud. Certainly the next Labour Government will continue to be tough on fraud. 855
 Mr. McLeish : I am disappointed by the Government's response to new clause 1. In a sense, they have had three tests. First, we asked them to review the direct payments system and allow local authorities to stop direct payments
 820
 Mr. McLeish : The Bill provides for careful examination of landlords' activities in housing benefit fraud, and new clause 1 would create a new offence of aggravated landlord fraud. We think that such an offence is necessary, because the Government have not yet been sufficiently tough on such fraud. In Committee, we discussed at great length the extent of the problem, and some of the points are worth repeating in the House. 808 "shall be liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve years or to a fine or to both, and"— "in determining the level of any fine imposed, the court shall have regard to the sums dishonestly obtained by him" 809
 Mr. Henry McLeish  (Fife, Central) : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time.
 Mr. Bruce : It is interesting that the hon. Gentleman should raise the subject of computer hacking. Does he accept that someone who opens a filing cabinet and examines a piece of information in that cabinet can get away with it very easily, but that someone who hacks into a computer leaves an audit trail? Many people say that a computer is less secure than a filing cabinet, but I would contend that it is much more secure.
 Mr. Bruce : I am grateful for the trailer for the hon. Gentleman's speech. I was very careful not to put him on one side of the web or the other. I am sure that he will speak for himself, and very ably. 813
 Mr. Ian Bruce : I shall comment briefly on the excellent provisions in the Bill, and explain why I believe that the new clause, although worthy, should not be accepted. 827 828
 Mr. Bruce : One might have to wait an awful long time for new Conservatism. Conservatism is, of course, a very basic approach, to which we have been sticking through thick and thin, despite the Labour party trying to out-Conservative the Conservative party.
 Mr. Ian Bruce  (South Dorset) : I came into the debate to speak on subsequent amendments that excited me, but having listened to the hon. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Field) express his excitement about waiting for my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary to get to his feet, I have become excited about how much new Labour has permeated the thoughts not only of the hon. Gentleman, who is one of the most knowledgable
 812
 Mr. Bruce : With a big smile on his face, the hon. Gentleman says that that is what Labour wants, but is that really sensible? Hansard,
 Mr. Ian Bruce : I am listened carefully to the hon. Gentleman. I had not intended to paint him into a corner with other Opposition Members, but he seems to be going down the same route.
 Mr. Bruce : The hon. Gentleman seems to be supporting the Bill but saying things that would preclude its being passed. May I give him an example? The original data protection directive said to people who wanted to mail a person information that was unrelated to the fact that they had the person's name and address from another source that they first had to mail the person and say, "Am I allowed to mail you something?" but, by doing that, they would have broken the law in the first place. That is the way we can go if we take it absolutely at face value that no one is allowed to cross-check information that is given to the Government.
Q1.  Mr. Davidson : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Tuesday 4 February. [12530]
 Mr. Davidson : Will the Prime Minister give a clear, unequivocal commitment that he will allow the Wirral, South by-election to proceed?
 Sir Ivan Lawrence : Will my right hon. Friend congratulate a firm in my constituency, Technic Holdings, which is now the world leader in manufacturing tyre re-treads? [ Laughter. 800
Q7.  Sir Ivan Lawrence : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Tuesday 4 February. [12536]
13.  Mr. Jacques Arnold : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment if he will make a statement on the 1997–98 financial settlement for Kent county council. [12513]
 Mr. Arnold : My hon. Friend will know that the people of Kent were delighted to receive an extra £22 million for this year—an increase that takes the spending of Kent county council beyond £1 billion. Does he share the dismay of people throughout Kent at the fact that the Labour-Liberal Democrat coalition proposes to cut massive sums from the budgets of our schools, our fire
 792
 Mr. Clappison : No amount of fudging can disguise that fact; the hon. Gentleman's proposal amounts to more public spending, which would have to be paid for, as the hon. Gentleman's Front-Bench colleague, the hon. Member for Oldham, West (Mr. Meacher), wants, through more taxation—taxation of allowances, and more and more taxation.
 Mr. Clappison : The hon. Gentleman's policy will not work because, as he well knows, many of the areas with the greatest housing need, such as Birmingham, Newcastle, Hackney and Southwark, have no housing receipts to spend, whereas areas with less housing need, such as West Dorset and Malvern Hills, have the receipts. He has never explained how he will transfer the receipts from one to another.
 Mr. Clappison : We estimate 148,000.
 Mr. Clappison : I can tell the hon. Gentleman that we have our estimates of housing need, and that we are on target to create between 58,000 and 60,000 new lettings over the decade as a whole, which is in line with our estimate of need. We are doing so in a variety of ways and, as the hon. Gentleman acknowledged by his use of the example of Leeds, we are drawing in a great deal of private finance—we estimate £1.7 billion over the next three years The hon. Gentleman asks for more money to meet needs over and beyond those that we have defined,
 791
 Mr. Clappison : The hon. Gentleman is right inasmuch as east Lancashire has one of the highest proportions of older properties in the country, which is a particular problem. According to the most recent analysis of the English house condition survey, the number of unfit properties in the country as a whole has fallen by about 10 per cent. The hon. Gentleman's local authority will no doubt want to deal with its particular problems by taking advantage of the Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act 1996 strategically to use the renovation grants that the Government provide to— [Interruption.] 784
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment (Mr. James Clappison) : At the most recent estimate, there were approximately 48,800 houses statutorily unfit in east Lancashire.
 Mr. Clappison : My hon. Friend makes an excellent point. It is indeed good news that pensioners' housing conditions have improved. Pensioners will no doubt want to take advantage of the more generous home repairs assistance under the Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act 1996.
 Mr. Wallace : Before the Minister leaves the rural homes policy review, how does he respond to the clear recommendations in the review? Scottish Homes does not seem to be giving resources to rural areas commensurate with the number of households in Scotland's rural areas. It is recommended that the primary emphasis must be on the provision of affordable rented housing, with local flexibility to take account of the need to achieve a proper balance between low-cost home ownership and rented accommodation.
 Mr. James Wallace  (Orkney and Shetland) : I am pleased to have secured this Adjournment debate on rural housing policy in Scotland. Many of the organisations associated with housing in Scotland, such as Shelter, the Scottish Federation of Housing Associations and the Chartered Institute of Housing in Scotland, have been trying in recent months to raise the political profile of the housing issue. It is important to do so in a context that shows that housing is not an issue that operates in isolation. 911 912 913 "that a rural share of 20.2 per cent. of Scottish Homes national investment is not commensurate with a 28.8 per cent. share of households, and a much faster rate of new household formation Moreover, the disproportionate cut in rural investment approved for 1996/97 is hard to reconcile with these trends. It is recommended that Scottish Homes both increases the rural share of its spending and articulates a clearer rationale for the geographic distribution of its expenditure." "that Scottish Homes gives primary emphasis in rural areas to the provision of affordable rented housing, although low cost home ownership should continue to be promoted in areas where there is sufficient and identified demand as a secondary priority. The guiding principle here should be local flexibility to respond to local circumstances, and efficiency targets should permit this." "The highest priority district objective is to increase the supply of low cost rented housing whether through direct provision or bringing redundant dwellings back into use. 914 We will concentrate the provision of general needs housing for rent in rural areas where there is currently low provision of local authority or assured tenancy housing. This will be provided through the funding of housing associations/co-operatives." "the guiding principle should be local flexibility to respond to local circumstances".
 Mr. Denham : The 1 million pensioners do not benefit from a system that does not work. There were 127 separate events triggering cold weather payments during December and January, but those pensioners did not benefit. This country carries the shame of an extra 30,000 to 50,000 deaths a year because of the cold, but the Government's response is confused, uncaring, ineffective and increasingly mean. What do the Government say when faced with evidence that their income support system is failing 40 per cent. of the people whom it is meant to reach? The Secretary of State said in his Politeia lecture last year:
 "Our policies promise security to the least well-off pensioners." "we do not know why certain pensioners do not take up income support".—[ Official Report, Standing Committee E, "We all accept that it is important that pensioners who are entitled to income support should be given every encouragement and all the information that they need to claim it."—[ Official Report, Standing Committee E, 843
 Mr. John Denham  (Southampton, Itchen) : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time. 841
 Mr. Denham : I have no hesitation in applauding that initiative in Cambridge and those in many other areas. My local authority's benefits take-up week was responsible for identifying a further £80,000 of unclaimed benefit. I am sure that my hon. Friend will agree that there is a sharp contrast between such local initiatives and the Government's record.
 Mr. Denham : The Minister has failed to rise to the scale of the problem: 1 million pensioners—one in 10 of all pensioners, and the poorest pensioners in this country—are going without the benefit to which they are entitled; 40 per cent. of people who are meant to be helped by income support are not receiving it; and the number of pensioners who chose not to claim in one year increased by 300,000. 848
 Mr. Denham : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Denham : Give way.
 Mr. Denham : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Gummer : My hon. Friend must accept that, wherever one draws those lines, one has such difficulties. I have suggested that we need to get the proportional weight of the business rate correct, which is why we are looking carefully, particularly at small businesses, to ensure that we can do what is best.
 Mr. Gummer : I must point out that the hon. Gentleman represents a party that used to set enormously high business rates and drove businesses out of its areas. For example, he will remember that, before we changed the rules, shopkeepers in Newcastle upon Tyne paid three times as much per square foot as people in Westminster, in Oxford street. That is what it meant to have a Labour council and Labour rates in those days—thank goodness we put that right.
 Mr. Gummer : I can certainly give the assurance that, if we can find a more satisfactory and equitable way of doing these things, we shall do so as rapidly as possible. I am sure that my hon. Friend would like to extend what he said to the fact that village shops can now get the special mandatory relief—mandatory relief that Liberal Members voted against. They did not want local shops to get that relief as of right, but wanted to leave it in the hands of Liberal councils, which very often do not provide that relief.
 Mr. Gummer : My Department has received 420 representations from members of the public, business, local authorities and other bodies, in response to consultation on the draft national strategy for air quality, which the Government are preparing in accordance with the Environment Act 1995.
 Mr. Gummer : Low interest rates and low inflation are the result of the Government's extremely good financial stewardship. The Labour party is committed to signing the European social chapter, which would increase unemployment. It is also committed to supporting a series of measures that would increase interest rates and put Britain back in the position that it was under the previous Labour Government—as the laughing stock of Europe, instead of as the leader of Europe.
 Mr. Gummer : Of course, the only reason that all would need to be social housing is if there were a Labour Government pushing down people's ability to buy their own houses. So the hon. Gentleman will have to explain why his party has now announced that—in the next two years, which is what we have been discussing—it would not provide any more money for social housing. He had better ask those questions of the right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East (Mr. Brown), who has clearly shot him out of the water.
 Mr. Gummer : That is rich coming from the party that voted against the right to buy; the party that has done everything possible to stop people buying their own houses; and the party that has new tax proposals up its sleeve—should it come into power—which would hit every home owner in the country. The hon. Gentleman is unbelievable, as usual.
 Mr. Gummer : I very much welcome my hon. Friend's support for our proposals, and certainly I shall seek to implement them as fast as possible. He will know that now is a particularly favourable moment in his own constituency, as information from Macclesfield shows that private starts were up 63 per cent. in the past quarter, year on year. I very much hope to be able to expedite the proposals in the sense that he requires.
 The Secretary of State for the Environment (Mr. John Gummer) : The housebuilding industry is benefiting from strong recovery in the wider housing market. Private housing starts in the three months to December 1996 were up 33 per cent. on the same period a year ago.
 Mr. Gummer : I am sure that my hon. Friend is right to say that we need to concentrate more on that. We are taking part in the negotiations on the auto-oil programme so that it will be a success throughout Europe. As my hon. Friend knows, half the pollution in Britain comes from the rest of Europe and we export half our pollution to Europe. We need a common policy, and we are determined to achieve it.
 Mr. Gummer : I know that the hon. Gentleman is coming from a long distance back, as the Opposition have done nothing about the environment. It seems that even less will be done now, as the hon. Gentleman has not even read his brief properly. He does not appear to know that we have provided local authorities with money and powers and that we are working with them to carry out our national air strategy. Nor does he seem to understand that we hosted a conference of northern European nations to work out a common air quality strategy that we now lead. No doubt the hon. Gentleman will suggest that we should spend more money and propose a whole series of new taxes to pay for that. The Government have achieved the necessary results. We are leading the rest of Europe—something that the hon. Gentleman could never understand or achieve.
 Mr. Gummer : Certainly. As my hon. Friend knows, we are working closely with local authorities. I am happy to consider the specific problems of the London borough of Bexley. Air quality is improving. We have high
 786
 Mr. Gummer : I am surprised by the hon. Gentleman's final comments. We have a national air quality strategy and have arranged a common strategy with the rest of the European Union. We are seen as the leader in Europe on this. I have committed myself to getting rid of summer and winter smog within 10 years, and shall spend much of my time working on that. Our policies are the best in Europe. We are continuing along those lines with an integrated transport strategy, which the hon. Gentleman knows about. On environmental issues, the Labour party knows so little and cares so little that it cannot even produce a coherent question.
 Mr. Gummer : Rates place a disproportionate burden on small businesses. For that reason, we have announced that rate bills for small business premises will not rise in 1997–98. We are looking at what other steps can be taken further to address this problem.
12.  Mr. Gunnell : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment what estimate he has made of the number of new lettings for social needs which will be available in (i) 1997–98, (ii) 1998–99 and (iii) 1999–2000. [12512]
 Mr. Gunnell : That is a rather higher figure than I had anticipated, but why is it that, when there is such a huge level of unmet social need, the Government have allowed social needs housing starts to fall to the lowest level since the second world war? I opened some of those units completed in Leeds only a week ago. Will the Minister ensure that creative partnerships, like that between Leeds city council and its five housing associations, can continue? Will he ensure that more money is made available for social housing, because we have the lowest number of social starts and it is time that the Government paid attention to it?
 Mr. MacGregor : As rail privatisation completes its final stages, does the Prime Minister agree that it already demonstrates substantial benefits for both passengers and taxpayers? Is not its success one of the main reasons why the Labour party, which bitterly opposed rail privatisation through all its parliamentary stages, as it did with nearly every other privatisation, is all at sea over its policy?
 The Prime Minister : It is undoubtedly the case that the Labour party has not supported a single privatisation until it has proved to be a success, at which point it pays lip service to it. Under Labour, none of the privatisations
 797 [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : I refer the hon. Member to the answer I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : The hon. and learned Gentleman gives me the opportunity to tell the House that unemployment in his constituency has fallen by 39 per cent. In due course, perhaps, the Labour candidate will add one to the figure at the general election. In reality, unemployment in this country is 6.7 per cent. and falling, compared with more than 4 million in Germany, 3 million in France and nearly 3 million in Italy. Indeed, 18.5 million people are unemployed in the European Union, and we have created more jobs in this country in recent years than the rest of the European Union added together. I shall send the hon. and learned Gentleman a copy of the speech that I shall make this evening, so that in future he may be better informed.
 The Prime Minister : I refer the hon. and learned Gentleman to the answer I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : I refer the hon. Gentleman to the reply I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : It will be interesting to see which of Labour's expenditure proposals it will ditch to keep within the spending and tax plans that the shadow Chancellor has apparently endorsed. Is it not remarkable that my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor has had from the shadow Chancellor the most remarkable endorsement of his economic policy that any Chancellor has ever received? On every single tax and spending decision, this year and next, the shadow Chancellor agrees that my right hon. and learned Friend is infallible.
 The Prime Minister : It is Conservative policy to keep every part of the United Kingdom within the United Kingdom. I hope that the hon. Gentleman will not support policies that might force an important part of the United Kingdom out of the United Kingdom. 798
 The Prime Minister : The hon. Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner) seeks to deny the reality of falling unemployment. He lives in his own dream world, where he may best be left. The reality is that unemployment is falling throughout the United Kingdom. The hon. Member for Liverpool, Garston (Mr. Loyden) will know that people from areas such as Merseyside, where Ford has withdrawn its jobs, have been in touch with my right hon. Friend the Minister for Industry to see what assistance may be provided.
 The Prime Minister : The Wirral, South by-election is proceeding.
 The Prime Minister (Mr. John Major) : This morning, I had meetings with ministerial colleagues and others. In addition to my duties in the House, I shall be having further meetings later today.
 The Prime Minister : I agree, both about taking whatever action is necessary to assure safety and about ensuring that action is not taken that will not help on safety grounds but will simply add to costs, the price of tickets and bureaucracy.
 The Prime Minister : I agree with a great deal of what the right hon. Gentleman said. Undoubtedly there has been an improvement in the past year—that is clear from Mr. Woodhead's report, and I am delighted to see that. It shows that the quality of teaching is satisfactory or better in the majority of schools, and I am pleased about that. I particularly congratulate those schools singled out for special praise by the chief inspector on the basis of the inspection evidence. I believe that they will provide a real example. 796
 The Prime Minister : I do not yet know what other absurd demands may come, but I have no doubt that the natural appetite for spending of so many Labour and Liberal-controlled local authorities will mean that there are quite a number of substantially above inflation demands for increased council tax. When the shadow Chancellor talks about Labour's plans for public spending, he clearly does not talk for the Labour local councils, which spend and spend and must then tax and tax.
 The Prime Minister : I refer my hon. Friend to the reply I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : I refer my hon. and learned Friend to the answer I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : With the growth in importance of exchange markets and the growth in currency passing daily across exchange markets, my hon. Friend's point is undeniable.
 The Prime Minister : No, they are both incorrect.
 The Prime Minister : I am not sure that I can immediately offer three days for debate, but we would certainly require three days to explain the distinction between the remarks of the hon. Member for Oldham, West and those of the shadow Chancellor. It was an outburst of candour from the hon. Member for Oldham, West and also from the hon. Member for Newcastle upon Tyne, East (Mr. Brown), the Opposition Deputy Chief Whip, who presumably has some idea of Labour's tax and spending policies. I cannot promise a three-day debate, but I can promise to mention that point on every necessary occasion.
 The Prime Minister : I refer the hon. Gentleman to the reply I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. and learned Friend illustrates clearly where the new jobs are coming from. No doubt the hon. Member for Bolsover would say that those fresh jobs created in my hon. and learned Friend's constituency were fiddled jobs, but they are real jobs. They are jobs that would not have been created but for the Government's policies.
 Mr. John Marshall : Does my right hon. Friend agree that one of the most important influences on the level of house building is the level of interest rates? Has he contemplated what would happen to interest rate levels and to the house building industry if we were ever to have a Government who were determined to spend an extra £30 billion?
 Mr. Whittingdale : Does my right hon. Friend accept that the burden of business rates bears particularly heavily not only on small businesses but on high-street retailers, who are trying to compete with out-of-town superstores? Is he aware that the Government's announcement that they are intending to redistribute the burden is particularly welcome to small shops such as those in Maldon high street? Will he assure us that he will introduce such measures as soon as possible after the general election?
11.  Mr. Whittingdale : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment what assessment he has made of the impact of the uniform business rate on small businesses. [12511]
 Mr. Kevin McNamara  (Kingston upon Hull, North) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. In column  452 Hansard, Hansard
 Mr. Llew Smith  (Blaenau Gwent) : How can the Minister say that he wants public expenditure restraint, while accepting and supporting a £60 million investment in the royal yacht from public funds?
 Mr. Smith : It is certainly difficult to get from the north to the south of the valleys, just as there are difficulties in moving from one valley to another. Someone living in an area of high deprivation who cannot afford his own transport will certainly have his chances of finding employment limited.
 Mr. Llew Smith  (Blaenau Gwent) : I was brought up to believe—my socialism reflects it—that investment should go where need is greatest, and I believe that that should be reflected in the settlement. If such an element of fairness were introduced into the settlement, my constituency of Blaenau Gwent would be one of the greatest recipients. Whatever measuring rod one uses to measure need and poverty, Blaenau Gwent almost certainly would be near the head of the league. 881
 Mr. Smith : It is convenient that the right hon. Gentleman should intervene at this point, as I am about to deal with the settlements for last year and for this year and how they affect my constituency. My conclusion—and that of the people who make up that community—is, to say the least, somewhat different from the right hon. Gentleman's. For instance, in our first budget as a county borough we had to make cuts of £5 million—and that was in addition to the £2 million that we had to take from our reserves. We also had to increase our council tax by some 25 per cent. 882
 Mr. Llew Smith : I am sure that, like myself, the hon. Gentleman is totally opposed to public expenditure restraints or cuts, but will he accept that there is logic in the Government's position—that, if one accepts the convergence criteria for the single currency and the restrictions on public expenditure, that must show itself in the amount of money that goes to local authorities?
 Mr. Brown : May I take this opportunity to thank my hon. Friend and his colleagues at the Department for the transitional relief provisions that they were able to make for North Lincolnshire? Will he confirm that there is no need for any local authority to make any cuts in education, providing that it spends sensibly? Will he set out the opportunities that exist for local authorities to make further savings in administration costs?
17.  Mr. Michael Brown : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment when he expects to announce the conclusions of the standard spending assessment consultations with local authorities. [12517]
 Mr. Meacher : How can the Secretary of State pretend that he is being serious about his so-called air quality strategy when it fails to set any standards for before 2005, when even then it fails to set any statutory standards for PM10s—by far the most dangerous particles—when it allows monitoring away from the areas of greatest traffic density and when he has provided no powers or money to local authorities to implement it? For all those who have suffered from the doubling in recent years of air pollution-caused asthma, is not the strategy just another pathetic Tory pre-election scam?
 Mr. Winterton : Given that planning delays have been a major factor in the inactivity of the housebuilding sector, will my right hon. Friend proceed as rapidly as possible to implement the proposals that he recently announced to remove inefficiency and, in some cases, deliberate delays in the planning process? Does he accept that action must be taken if we are to achieve the strategic demand of 4.4 million houses over the next 20 years?
1.  Mr. Nicholas Winterton : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment if he will make a statement on the level of activity in the housebuilding industry [12500]
 Mr. Raynsford : Does the Minister accept that, while there may be a case in certain circumstances for transfers
 794
8.  Mr. Waterson : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment what steps he is taking to protect the downland (a) near Eastbourne and (b) elsewhere. [12507]
 Mr. Waterson : When my hon. Friend reviews the role of the Sussex Downs conservation board, will he seriously consider the possibility of extending its powers to give it, for example, the power to call in planning applications? Will he also look closely at the suggestion of putting the Eastbourne downland under the control of an independent charitable trust, so that it can be removed from political control and interference once and for all?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Social Security (Mr. Oliver Heald) : A claimant or a landlord can be guilty of this offence. The new clause deals only with the sentence. How can it be right to lay down a sentence of 12 years for landlords involved in organised fraud and one of seven years for claimants involved in a series of organised attacks on the benefit system? That is nothing but ludicrous.
 Mr. Heald : We have heard distinguished comments by my hon. Friend the Member for South Dorset (Mr. Bruce) and by the hon. Member for South Antrim (Mr. Forsythe), and interesting and helpful comments by others who have spoken. We have also heard the hon. Member for Fife, Central (Mr. McLeish) putting the case for the Opposition.
 Mr. Heald : My point is that measures in respect of conspiracy to defraud and offences under the Theft Act 1968 are adequate to deal with such cases, and that the offence we are debating has its own special place in the scheme of things.
 Mr. Heald : The hon. Gentleman should recognise that the offence that the Bill addresses is the same whether it is perpetrated by a landlord or a claimant. The new clause proposes that the sentence for a landlord should be 12 years rather than seven years. How does the hon. Gentleman square that with a difficulty that regularly arises when organised gangs who are not landlords attempt to attack the benefits system? Their criminality is just as serious as that of fraudulent landlords. In those circumstances, why should there not be equality?
 Mr. Heald : The Bill contains eight solid measures to tackle landlord fraud. Is the hon. Gentleman denying that?
 Mr. Heald : The problem with new clause 2 is that it applies to only a limited area of government, so we would end up with a piecemeal approach to data protection rather than the seamless provision that everyone wants. Consultations are taking place on the European data protection directive and the "Government.direct" Green Paper. That is surely the proper place to deal with those issues.
 Mr. Heald : All right, then.
 Mr. Heald : I should like to make a little progress first.
 Mr. Heald : As you will have noticed, Madam Speaker, I was in the process of criticising the Labour Front-Bench spokesman rather than the hon. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Field). I am always complimentary about the Select Committee, because of the complimentary remarks that it in turn has made about my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State and his efforts in this context. 816
 Mr. Heald : The existing data matching measures used by the Department are all covered by the legal regime under the Data Protection Act 1988, and they meet the terms of the European convention on human rights. The external data matching we carry out at present is limited to cases where there is evidence of fraud, and, in those circumstances, it is covered by the appropriate legislation. We are not approving something retrospectively, although the new powers will, of course, take us further in the data matching direction—something that the Select Committee recommended, and with which we agree. 817 818 v. 819
 Mr. Heald : No.
 Mr. Heald : I have already answered the response which I know will come, which is feeble in the extreme. The hon. Gentleman admitted that, when he was in local government—
 Mr. Heald : No; I shall not give way any more. I have had enough of these ill considered—
 Mr. Heald : The answer to that is a frank no.
 Mr. Heald : The Third Reading debate presents me with the opportunity to thank the Committee for the care that it has taken in discussing the Government's proposals. The Bill received a thorough scrutiny during the 11 sittings of the Committee, but, throughout, business has been conducted in a constructive and professional manner. 856
 Mr. Heald : I totally disagree with the hon. Gentleman about the purpose of closing the general advice line. It was closed because numerous people were ringing to ask about their personal circumstances and were having to be told that they would have to get in touch with their local office if they wanted anything to be done. We are localising the service. Why bother having an intermediate step when individuals can ring their local office where trained staff are able to answer their inquiries? The hon. Gentleman says that we all know that individuals do not claim because they do not know about the rules, but we do not know that that is so. What we know is that a significant number of people do not claim, and I believe that there may be a variety of reasons for that.
 Mr. Heald : I think that I gave an example earlier.
 Mr. Heald : That brings me to the subject of local government, about which the hon. Lady may wish to ask me.
 Mr. Heald : I recognise the hon. Lady's concern, but the difficulty is that, although it is quite right to make all pensioners and individuals who are entitled to benefit aware of their entitlements—and such help is quite properly available—it is for the individual to decide whether they wish to claim benefit.
 Mr. Heald : The hon. Member for Littleborough and Saddleworth (Mr. Davies) has made some interesting comments. It is an odd principle that we should simply take a punt on the new clause, whether or not it works. We heard a detailed account of the Opposition's approach from the hon. Member for Southampton, Itchen (Mr. Denham), but my hon. Friend the Member for Harrow, West (Mr. Hughes) really hit the nail on the head when he addressed many of the difficulties in that approach. 846
 Mr. Heald : Does my hon. Friend agree that one category that includes substantial numbers consists of people who live with their families, are supported by them and choose not to claim benefit?
 Mr. Heald : Who brought in the cold weather payments system?
 Mr. Heald : My hon. Friend the Member for South Dorset (Mr. Bruce) made an excellent point when he said that this country should be proud of the way in which the security of personal data has been protected for many years by Government Departments. 835
 Mr. Heald : I think that the package of current safeguards, which I have outlined, are adequate. The hon. Gentleman mentioned the Hedges report. It is worth remembering that one of its key findings was that the public want information to be sufficiently available for the efficient conduct of their own affairs, and for confidentiality not to act as a shield for serious wrongdoing. That is also the Government's view. Having outlined the Government's case on new clause 2, I hope that the hon. Member for Fife, Central (Mr. McLeish) will be prepared to withdraw the motion.
 Mr. Heald : I think that I am about to deal with the point that the hon. Gentleman wishes to make. Perhaps I can go on, and we can then discover whether his question has been answered. 836
 Mr. Paul Flynn  (Newport, West) : I am stunned by the hon. Gentleman's line of argument. Can he provide examples of elderly people—or anyone on a tiny disposable income, living in real poverty—having objected because the Government had tried to force money on them?
 Mr. Flynn : What reasons?
 Mr. Flynn : It is ludicrous to say—and no evidence of it has been given—that pensioners are not claiming benefits because they do not want the money. It would be extraordinary if that were so. We know that the reason is that they are ignorant of available allowances. The awareness campaign would impress us a great deal more if the Government had not recently made cuts in the telephone hotline service—the main service that told people what was available.
 Mr. Paul Flynn  (Newport, West) : The Secretary of State mentioned the jobs that have come from the royal yacht. Has he noticed that the royal yacht has never visited Japan or Korea? Can he tell us how many jobs resulted from the destinations that it has visited? How many jobs for Wales arose from its visits to the Lesser Antilles, the Azores, the Leeward Islands, the Windward Islands, Gran Canaria, Grand Cayman, the Ivory Coast or Namibia?
 Mr. Peter Atkinson : When my right hon. Friend met councillors from the north-east of England recently and they asked him for increased SSAs and greater Government grants, did they discuss the funding of the North of England Assembly of Local Authorities? Did they tell him about the increasing burden that that authority was placing on them, and did they say that it was advertising for a new director at a salary of £60,000 a year with the duty of promoting regional government in the north-east of England? Is it not a shameful waste of public money? Is not regional government deeply unpopular in the north of England, as people know that it means heavier local taxes and jobs for the boys?
 Mr. Hain : How does the Prime Minister reconcile his assurance to the chairman of the Japanese equivalent of the CBI that he supports a single currency and would take Britain into it, with his assurance to the hon. Member for Southend, East (Sir T. Taylor) that he opposes a single currency and would block British entry? Which of those views—personally expressed by him—is correct, or are they both "infallible"?
Q6.  Mr. Hain : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Tuesday 4 February. [12535]
 Mr. Hardy : I accept the Minister's reply to the hon. Member for Chipping Barnet (Sir S. Chapman), but will he make it clear that the Government will not be inclined to approve applications for opencast mining and mineral extraction in the green belt, especially where there is bitter opposition by local communities?
 Mr. Pike : Does the Secretary of State accept that we all recognise the importance of small business, but that, when he says that about the part of the poll tax legislation which refers to non-domestic rates, it really shows how that flagship legislation was flawed in both sections—in respect of non-domestic rates and of the poll tax—and shows what a disaster the Government have been since 1987?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Raymond S. Robertson) : First, I congratulate the hon. Member for Orkney and Shetland (Mr. Wallace) on securing this Adjournment debate this evening. It gives us an opportunity to discuss, albeit briefly, rural housing. If he wishes to raise other issues, he should write to me, and I shall ensure that he gets a very speedy reply. 915 916 917
 Mr. Robertson : As the hon. Gentleman knows, Scottish Homes has considerable licence as to how it operates. I meet the chairman and board twice a year to review the strategic objectives. The rural review is one of the subjects that will be discussed when we meet soon. I am happy to feed in the hon. Gentleman's comments. 918
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan  (Cardiff, West) : This is a foolish point of order. Sit down.
 Mr. Richard Burden  (Birmingham, Northfield) : There are an estimated 100,000 people in Birmingham who care for others and the petition that I am presenting has been compiled by the West Heath Carers Association in my constituency. It is in support of the right of carers to have short-term breaks. More than 350 people from Birmingham, Northfield and the surrounding areas have signed the petition, which reads as follows:
 To the Honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of the people of Birmingham Northfield and the surrounding areas Sheweth That to ensure these essential services, disabled people and their carers have the right, following assessment, to short term (respite) breaks. Wherefore your petitioners pray that your honourable House pass a bill in like terms to the Disabled Persons and Carers Bill [Lords], presented in the last session of Parliament, to legally enshrine the right to assessment and subsequent short term (respite) breaks. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray, &c.
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes  (Harrow, West) : In case my hon. Friend is misinterpreted, I should point out that, whereas the Labour Front Benchers and the Liberal Democrats are all over the place on the issue, the hon. Member for South Antrim (Mr. Forsythe), who serves on the Social Security Committee, knows precisely what he is talking about. He brings a great deal of wisdom and expertise to the Committee.
 Mr. Jones : The hon. Gentleman knows that every application must be looked at on its merits, but—as I have just said—the strong presumption against inappropriate development in the green belt has led us to turn down many applications in the past.
 Mr. Jones : I pay tribute to my hon. Friend, who, as a former president of the London Green Belt Council, provided able leadership for the movement to protect the green belt in the capital—as does the current president, my hon. Friend the Member for Uxbridge (Sir M. Shersby). He is right about the pressures on the green belt, which we will resist, but if he wants to know who is on the side of the green belt and who is not, he need only look across his county boundary into Hertfordshire, where the Conservatives proposed that no new housing should be built in the green belt, but were voted down by Labour and Liberal councillors who wanted housing concentrated there.
 Mr. Robert B. Jones : I have consistently made clear my commitment to green belts, including the metropolitan green belt. The revised version of planning policy guidance note 2 on green belts, published in 1995, reaffirms the strict control over development in green belts and maintains the presumption against inappropriate development.
 Mr. Jones : My hon. Friend has fought a vigorous battle to protect downland in his constituency—sometimes against his Liberal-controlled local authority, which seems to want to develop on the downland. When we receive the advice due from the Countryside Commission, we shall make absolutely certain that we consider all the options, including the sensible ones that my hon. Friend has put forward.
 Mr. Jones : Without the detail of the hon. Gentleman's complaint, it is obviously very difficult to comment. I am happy to look at the circumstances that he describes. Then we can no doubt consider whether any action is necessary.
 Mr. Robert B. Jones : We fully recognise the importance of the chalk downland in Sussex and elsewhere. The Sussex downs are designated as an area of outstanding natural beauty and further protection is given to important sites through designation as national nature reserves and sites of special scientific interest. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has also established the environmentally sensitive areas scheme, which protects downland landscapes, including an extensive area of the Sussex downs.
 Mr. Jones : I fully recognise that my hon. Friend has been leading a vigorous campaign to get the scheme approved; he has certainly left neither my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Environment nor my hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Transport in any doubt as to the importance of the scheme to Stockton. As he said, however, there is a legal challenge to the scheme, and it would be extremely unwise to make a decision that could not stand up in law.
 The Minister for Construction, Planning and Energy Efficiency (Mr. Robert B. Jones) : The orders and applications for this scheme are now before my right
 783
 Mr. Richards : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I seek guidance on what the hon. Member for Caerphilly (Mr. Davies) has been saying for some time. Is it in order for an hon. Member—
 Mr. Rod Richards  (Clwyd, North-West)   rose
 Mr. Richards : The hon. Gentleman's body temperature is higher than his IQ—on the centigrade scale. 869
 Mr. Richards : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Richards : My right hon. Friend has expressed his concern about the Labour party's proposal to create an assembly in Cardiff. Is he doubly concerned about the effect of an assembly in Cardiff on his constituents in north Wales? Is he not alarmed by the statement of the hon. Member for Caerphilly (Mr. Davies), who said that the assembly would not have tax-raising powers initially, which implies that the Labour party's plans are similar to those in Scotland, in that a Welsh assembly would have tax-raising powers?
 Mr. Richards : Hear, hear.
 Mr. Rod Richards  (Clwyd, North-West) : The local government settlement was made in a tight financial climate. Given the circumstances, it was fair, and we must remember that all local authorities in Wales agreed to it. As several Opposition Members have said, although the economy is now going strongly and is the strongest in Europe, we must bear it in mind that we have recently come out of a deep recession. The public sector borrowing that was required to maintain services at an acceptable level at that time must be repaid in times of plenty, and those are the circumstances in which the local government settlement has been made.
 Mr. Gale : I am sure that my right hon. Friend shares my desire that transport safety standards across and under the channel should improve. Does he agree, however, that proposals from Brussels to make cross-channel ferries list the names and addresses of every man, woman and child travelling backwards and forwards on day trips is a bureaucratic nonsense and wholly unnecessary? Will he resist it, please?
 Sir Roger Moate : Does not the fact remain that Kent has received an extra £22 million, that Labour shadow Ministers are saying that there is no more money available anyway, and that it is Liberal and Labour councillors who are shutting our fire stations, cutting our library services and closing our youth services? The sooner we get them out on 1 May, the sooner we shall be able to ensure that those closures and cuts do not happen.
 Mr. Ron Davies : I do not know why the right hon. Gentleman keeps raising this argument. We have made it absolutely clear that the Labour party has no proposals to give tax-raising powers to the assembly.
 Mr. Davies : No, I will not. 873
 Mr. Davies : I shall give the hon. Gentleman a direct answer. In Wales, some 30,000 people under 25 are unemployed. I want them to return to productive work. I want them to have the self-respect and discipline that comes from the opportunity to work for a living—an opportunity that the hon. Gentleman and the Government he supports have denied to generations of young people
 872
 Mr. Davies : I am not assuming anything. All I propose is to put to the people of Wales the question whether they should have their own assembly. If they vote yes, I am sure that the House will wish to accommodate that wish.
 Mr. Davies : I invited the Secretary of State to give a straightforward answer to my question. What share of the alleged additional resources for economic growth or health has he given to local government? If he cannot answer that question now—I realise that local government finance is complex, and perhaps he has not had time to master it—will he write to me with that information?
 Mr. Davies : I am grateful to the Secretary of State, because that is precisely the answer that I knew he would give. His Department fails to acknowledge the crucial strategic role that the Welsh Office and local government could play together in tackling the economic and interlocking problems of our communities, such as unemployment and idleness, under-achievement, poor housing, poor environment, poor standards of public behaviour and poor health. It is the Welsh Office's failure to understand that and to work with local authorities that has caused so much resentment and frustration in Welsh local government under his regime.
 Mr. Davies : No, I have given way to the Secretary of State and I want to make progress.
 Mr. Davies : No, I will not. Many of my colleagues want to speak. The Minister will be able to speak—he will wind up the debate—and I want to finish my own speech so that the debate can continue.
 Mr. Davies : I shall give way in a moment.
 Mr. Davies : I shall give way to the hon. Gentleman in a little while. 870 "It is no good taking out this or that to make the figures look different. The total figure is rising by 2.6 per cent."— [Official Report, Welsh Grand Committee, "I believe that over time local authorities in Wales should raise a higher proportion of their income from council tax. The 11 per cent. increase is the result of this approach."
 Mr. Davies : My hon. Friend is right. He represents Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney, which includes part of my
 871
 Mr. Davies : I shall not give way to the hon. Gentleman. Many of my hon. Friends wish to contribute to the debate and, if the hon. Gentleman wishes to make his own speech, no doubt he will seek to catch your eye, Mr. Deputy Speaker. If any other right hon. or hon. Members who represent Welsh constituencies wish to intervene, of course I shall consider giving way. Western Mail. 867 Western Mail
 Mr. Davies : I have no intention of doing so. The figures were prepared by the Secretary of State's Department for his use. They were not divulged to anyone else. How could anyone outside the Department have released those figures? It is a simple matter: they were the Secretary of State's figures and he had exclusive control of them. They were prepared by his office for his use. No one other than officers of his Department could have accessed those figures.
 Mr. Ron Davies  (Caerphilly) : I shall deal first with the central thrust of the Secretary of State's argument. I shall vote against his proposal—and encourage my right hon. and hon. Friends to do likewise—because I believe the settlement to be deeply damaging. Let me assure the Secretary of State that there is no agreement whatever on the Welsh Office budget.
 Mr. Davies : The Secretary of State is deliberately misquoting me. I have never said that I agree with the settlement, but I recognise that it is the settlement that will apply in the next financial year. 866
 Mr. Davies : I am afraid that the Secretary of State's performance is woeful. The figures were prepared by his Department for subsequent publication. They were available only to civil servants and politicians in his Department—nobody else could have accessed them or leaked them. The Secretary of State is responsible for his Ministers, political advisers, media officers and other civil servants in his Department. Someone in his office leaked the information, deliberately and maliciously, to the  Western Mail.
 Mr. Davies : Is the Secretary of State saying that the figures were leaked not by his own personal office but by someone in the Welsh Office?
 Mr. Davies : How can the Secretary of State be sure that his private office did not leak the figures if, as he now claims, the inquiry is not complete?
 Mr. Roy Hughes  (Newport, East) : We are debating the Welsh revenue support grant reports, but it is necessary to consider them in the context of Welsh local government and its structure following the recent reorganisation. 883
 Mr. Hughes : No, I am not giving way. "Our spending on both revenue and capital is being squeezed … Newport, in common with almost all other councils in Wales, is being permitted to spend an additional 1.8 per cent. next year". "is insufficient to meet the cost of pay and price inflation. … the pay review bodies are considering awards at over 3 per cent. for some groups of public service employees." "For Newport the permitted increase of 1.8 per cent. equates to approximately £2 million extra spending capacity." "arising from the enforced privatisation of our waste disposal service and the Government's new Landfill Tax," "We are unable to maintain the current standard of our services despite major efficiency savings." 884 "has short-changed the new local authorities." 885
 Mr. Rowlands : My hon. Friend returns to the point with which we began the debate, about the balance between central and local government expenditure and taxation. A marginal change in central Government support to local authorities leads to a disproportionate increase in council taxes. Any increase in local taxation is unfair, especially to poorer communities such as he and I represent. The burden of taxation is heavier on poorer communities.
 Mr. Ted Rowlands  (Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney) : The right hon. Gentleman makes a serious point about the way in which central Government increasingly carries the burden of local spending, so that any marginal change in central Government decisions has a disproportionate effect on taxation at local level. That has happened this year and last year. Is not the problem that we have never managed to devise an effective system of local government taxation?
 Mr. Devlin : Given that it is a year since the public inquiry ended and that the whole of the town centre scheme in Stockton has been left in limbo because his officials have been sitting on it for so long, will my hon. Friend now deal with the matter as an urgent priority and disregard the representations that are obviously being received from Chesterfield Properties, which has a vested interest in wrecking the scheme?
2.  Mr. Devlin : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment, pursuant to his answer of 20 January,  Official Report, 437,
 Mr. Tony Banks  (Newham, North-West) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I know that it is said that Prime Minister's Question Time generates more heat than light—but am I having a heart attack, or could it be the light at the end of the tunnel? The luminosity in the Chamber seems to have been significantly increased, to the extent that I now realise how ugly Conservative Members are. Some of us like to skulk in the dark at the back of the Chamber. Were you consulted about the change, Madam Speaker, and can we have an opportunity to say something about it?
 Mr. Blair : In respect of the Ofsted report, does the Prime Minister agree that the inspectors found much to praise and many competent and hard-working teachers, but that they also found severe problems in literacy, numeracy and, in particular, with a significant minority of head teachers? Given the central importance of leadership by a head in a school, does he agree that it is sensible at least to consider making the new national competence qualification a requirement for all new and aspiring head teachers, so mat, over time, this weakness can be remedied to the benefit of our children?
 Mr. Walter Sweeney  (Vale of Glamorgan) : I assume that the aggregate external finance figures that my right hon. Friend has given include the provision from central funds for the police and the amount that comes from the Home Secretary. Will my right hon. Friend clarify
 861
 Mr. Sweeney : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Sweeney : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman. He said some time ago that he would give way in a moment; then he said that he would give way in a little while; then he said that he would give way in a moment. Since then, he has responded to two other interventions.
 Mr. Sweeney   rose
 Mr. Sweeney : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Sweeney : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Sweeney : My right hon. Friend makes a very good point. Opposition-controlled local authorities clearly would like to have us believe that money spent by local government is somehow different from that spent by central Government and that it should not appear in public borrowing figures. Time and again, we hear the argument, "Allow us to spend all our receipts from council house sales," notwithstanding the fact that the authorities borrowed the money to build those houses and have not paid it back.
 Mr. Sweeney : Just so.  [Laughter.]
 Mr. Sweeney : Subject, of course, to capping. It is interesting to note that Opposition Members do not seem to like capping. Perhaps that is not surprising, as we all know that Labour-controlled Governments, just like Labour-controlled authorities, tend to act irresponsibly when spending is involved. In the past few days, we have received assurances from some Labour Members, who are not in the Chamber for this debate, that Labour will not attempt to increase spending in the next two years. However, the tone of Opposition Members' speeches today suggests that they assume that central Government are not providing enough money for local authorities. The clear implication is that a Labour Government would provide more.
 Mr. Sweeney : That will be a matter for the local authority to determine, because my right hon. Friend has left with local authorities the discretion, provided that they do not exceed capping levels, to determine how much council tax people will pay. That discretion will apply in Vale of Glamorgan as it will across Wales. I should expect Vale of Glamorgan to look for ways of getting better value for money and of providing better services for a given amount, and not, for example, to waste money on titivating the reception area of its civic offices, on which an enormous amount appears to have been spent. 879
 Mr. Walter Sweeney  (Vale of Glamorgan) : I should like to pay tribute to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for once again securing a generous settlement for Wales, compared with that for England. The aggregate external finance that he has announced represents a 2.6 per cent. increase over last year, and it is about 1 per cent. more than the increase announced for England.
 Mr. Hague : I am happy to answer the hon. Gentleman's questions all evening. It amazes me that he is so resistant to more Welsh Question Times in the Grand Committee, given that he is so keen to ask questions in the House.
 Mr. Hague : I asked the hon. Gentleman to substantiate his accusation regarding civil servants—who cannot answer for themselves in this place—and he cannot do so. That is highly irresponsible conduct, which is exactly what we have come to expect from the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Hague : We are having an inquiry.
 Mr. Hague : The hon. Gentleman mentioned the coming year. He was quoted in the newspapers as saying that he agreed to the total Welsh Office spending plans for the next two years. That applied to total Welsh spending and to the Government's total spending plans. Was he misquoted? If not, and if he wanted to spend more on the local government settlement at any time in the next two years, would he not have to reduce other spending programmes?
 Mr. Hague : The hon. Gentleman will be delighted to know that the royal yacht will be visiting Japan and Korea on its current tour. As his constituency is one of the principal beneficiaries of investment from Korea, he in particular should welcome our continued good relations with Korea. 864 Western Mail "He said the figures were open to debate as to whether there was a cut or an increase." 865
 Mr. Hague : When the hon. Gentleman says that the figures were leaked by my office, he clearly implies my personal office. The standard of his accusations and of his debate this evening are a sad reflection on his leadership of the Labour party in Wales.
 Mr. Hague : I shall intervene, but not on that point. The hon. Gentleman made an entirely unsubstantiated assertion about the source of a leak from the Welsh Office. I have established an inquiry into the matter and the report is imminent. I shall write to the hon. Gentleman about it, and to anyone else who is interested—including the hon. Member for Caernarfon (Mr. Wigley), as he is obviously curious about the findings. There is no evidence
 868
 Mr. Hague : The specific grants, which include £171.1 million in police grant to be paid by the Home Secretary, are included in my figures for aggregate external finance, and that is the total provision from the Home Office for the police in the coming year. It therefore includes all policy initiatives, which my hon. Friend will have heard the Home Secretary announce, and which are now being implemented.
 Mr. Hague : The capping limit in England is much more complex. It is 2.6 per cent. for certain types of authority but a lower limit for other types of authority. It varies in England because of the introduction of unitary authorities, and because of a different pattern of local government reorganisation from what we have seen in Wales. If one were to allow for all those differences, the hon. Gentleman would find that capping limits are not as generous in England as they are in Wales. I should be happy to write to him with those figures.
 Mr. Hague : My right hon. Friend makes two valid points. He draws attention to the advantage that Wales enjoys in local government finance, which we have preserved over many years, with a much larger proportion of local authority spending financed from central Government funds. He is right to say that the threat to the formula which determines the spending of the entire Welsh block, on which these figures critically depend, is a fundamental change in our constitutional arrangements, which could sweep that formula away.
 Mr. Hague : In theory, one way to change the equation would be to reduce the total amount and shift responsibility elsewhere. As my hon. Friend knows, we have moved much responsibility for education budgets into schools, and I prefer to think that our future progress will involve greater devolution to local decision making instead of centralisation of decision making. However, Governments of all parties have tried to reform the present system, and have not enjoyed the experience. I believe that, within the existing system, the decisions that I am announcing for the coming year are right.
 Mr. Hague : Some of the investments that have come into the United Kingdom, and specifically into Wales, in recent years have been partly negotiated or signed because of events held on the royal yacht. I can absolutely assure the hon. Gentleman of that. The royal yacht is worth far more than £60 million in generating new jobs and investment for the UK, and Wales has been one of the principal beneficiaries. [ Laughter.
 Mr. Hague : As we discussed earlier, we do not have a system in which local authorities take true responsibility for all their decisions. I am interested to hear Labour Members advocate the lifting of all capping restrictions, because it is one of those murky areas of policy that the Labour party has developed over the past year or two. Previously, it was in favour of abolishing all capping limits; now it seems to be in favour of capping limits for the coming year, if I understand the hon. Member for Holborn and St. Pancras (Mr. Dobson) correctly. I expect that the hon. Member for Caerphilly will enlarge on that in his speech. 862 863
 Mr. Hague : I have no plans, Mr. Deputy Speaker, to allow any of the projects recently mentioned to be financed out of the Welsh local government settlement, as hon. Members will be delighted to hear.
 Mr. Hague   rose
 Mr. Hague : The hon. Gentleman makes a valid point. We have not succeeded in devising a form of local government taxation that would allow local government to raise the vast majority—or all—of its revenue and take all that responsibility. That is why we continue to provide a very large proportion of local government spending from central Government funds. It does not mean that we cannot adjust that amount, but it means that, for a long time to come, unless the basis of local taxation is changed, most of the money will be provided from central Government funds.
 Mr. Hague : These motions concern provision for local authority revenue spending in Wales in the financial year beginning in April 1997. Western Mail "Labour will accept the spending plans for the first two years as they stand. This applies across the board and therefore to Wales." 859
 The Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. William Hague) : I beg to move,
 That the Local Government Finance Report (Wales) 1997–98 (HC 218), which was laid before this House on 3rd February, be approved.
 Mr. William Powell : Will my right hon. Friend make available three days of Government time next week to give the whole House the opportunity to discuss a Government motion congratulating the hon. Member for Oldham, West (Mr. Meacher) on his candour in admitting that the Opposition have ample scope for huge tax increases? Such a debate would also allow the House to discuss Opposition Members' widespread hopes and expectations that there will be a £30 billion increase in public expenditure, even though that is denied by Labour Front Benchers. Does my right hon. Friend believe that we should discuss the Opposition's extraordinary agreement to Government economic targets as laid down by my right hon. and learned Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer?
 Mr. Win Griffiths  (Bridgend) : We have had a wide-ranging debate, in which my hon. Friends the Members for Rhondda (Mr. Rogers), for Blaenau Gwent (Mr. Smith), for Newport, East (Mr. Hughes), for Islwyn (Mr. Touhig), for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson) and for Alyn and Deeside (Mr. Jones) graphically explained why the local government settlement will result in deep cuts in services, while at the same time forcing local authorities to increase their council taxes beyond the rate of inflation. 897 898
 Sir Wyn Roberts  (Conwy) : It is all very well for the hon. Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney (Mr. Rowlands) to look a gift horse in the mouth when he refers to the 88 per cent. that my right hon. Friend has secured, compared with the 79 per cent. in England, but does my right hon. Friend agree that the real threat to the favourable treatment that Wales receives is from the Opposition's devolution proposals?
 Sir Wyn Roberts : I accept your guidance, of course, Mr. Deputy Speaker, but the hon. Member for Caerphilly simplifies a complex issue, as he will find it to be. 876 NDPBs, "provide local authorities with a fair level of funding in 1997–98 given the overall level of resources available and other spending needs."— [Official Report, 159.
 Sir Wyn Roberts  (Conwy) : I am glad to have the opportunity to comment on the settlement, but I do not know whether to be reassured or perturbed by the fact that the hon. Member for Caerphilly (Mr. Davies) is prepared to accept so much with which he disagrees. It makes me wonder what else he accepts, but disagrees with. 874
 Sir Wyn Roberts : The council managed 25 per cent. last year, but interestingly it has decided that it could not raise the rate by the figure that might have been suggested to it, and that it would rather keep the rate at the Welsh average. That shows responsibility on its part. 875
 Sir Wyn Roberts : The hon. Gentleman assumes that he and his party can carry any proposal for an assembly through the House without change. Again, I ask him to go back to our debates in the 1970s to find out just how radical the proposed changes were—they were carried in the House, resulting in the defeat of the then Government, so he must not assume that he can dispose whatever he proposes. It is not up to him; it is up to Parliament to dispose.
 Sir Wyn Roberts : All parts of north Wales and mid-Wales fear that, because of the sparsity of their populations, they would be dominated by an assembly in south Wales, representing as it inevitably would the bulk of the population, which is located in the south.
 Sir Wyn Roberts : Is my hon. Friend aware—I think that I am right in saying this—that the abolition of
 880
 Sir Wyn Roberts : I really cannot allow the hon. Gentleman to get away with that. The standard spending assessment for Blaenau Gwent is £65.268 million and its external support is £62.9 million. He really cannot expect more generous treatment than that.
 Mrs. Campbell : Does the Minister agree that many pensioners who claim council tax benefit are entitled to income support but do not claim it even though they have been told by their local authority that they may be entitled to it? His proposals do not deal with that. That is precisely what my hon. Friend the Member for Southampton, Itchen (Mr. Denham) is trying to overcome.
 Mrs. Anne Campbell   rose
 Mrs. Anne Campbell : Will my hon. Friend join me in congratulating my local newspaper, the  Cambridge Evening News,
 Mrs. Anne Campbell : I wonder whether the hon. Gentleman has discussed his concerns with the Data Protection Registrar. It appears from my conversations with her that she would insist on certain safeguards, but she is happy with the principle of data matching for such benign purposes.
 Mrs. Campbell : The Minister is correct to say that we shall soon require new legislation to bring the EC data
 826
 Mrs. Anne Campbell  (Cambridge) : It is necessary to provide a clear legal basis for the use and disclosure of information. I remind the House that we are discussing information that has been collected for one purpose but will be used for another. Such data may be supplied by statute to the Inland Revenue or by a person who is claiming benefit. People provide the information voluntarily because they believe that they are entitled to claim benefit. 825 "people want to be assured that their interests—such as their reputations, their finances, their entitlements and their prospects in life—are properly safeguarded. Information about them must not be misused, wrongly disclosed, accidentally revealed or fraudulently obtained … New methods of service delivery outlined in this Green paper will be developed in accordance with the requirements of the UK's international data protection obligations."
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman : Is my hon. Friend aware that the number of single pensioners—they are the most vulnerable people—who live in unfit dwellings fell by 10 per cent. between 1986 and 1991? Is not that an important improvement in the conditions of our elderly population?
 Sir Paul Beresford : My hon. Friend is right. He was a member of a local authority that went down that road to the benefit of the people of Croydon. New orders were laid at the end of last month to achieve exactly what he has mentioned.
 Sir Paul Beresford : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. Funnily enough, the councillors forgot to mention that. We heard much pleading—there was a little of that last night. Taxpayers and council tax payers, through the SSA, have to carry an extra burden of bureaucracy that will gum up the works even more than the regional authority manages to do now.
 Sir Paul Beresford : I find it intriguing to be told what is official Conservative party policy. The hon. Gentleman should recognise that, while he is free with other people's money, the Government are not.
 Sir Paul Beresford : I am disappointed that the hon. Gentleman, who I thought had some understanding of standard spending assessments, has taken a line that fell flat on its face last night. Let me put it the other way round. If the flagship Labour authority of Harlow was as efficient as Westminster, relative to its SSA, its band D council tax would be £10, saving local people some £180 this year. In other words, the local authorities should get their act together.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment (Sir Paul Beresford) : We have discussions with the local authority associations on standard spending assessments several times throughout the year.
 Sir Paul Beresford : I think that my hon. Friend is well aware of them. In fact, there was a debate on his local authorities in the House on exactly that point. They accept, even though they protest and screech and scream, that they have a special advantage—as they are now authorities governing all local government services—that would allow them to make much greater efficiency savings than they appear willing to do.
 Sir Paul Beresford : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman should reflect that I was leader of a local authority when its SSA was cut by 25 per cent. but that it has the best services in London.
 Sir Paul Beresford : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. If he had been in our shoes at the Department, he would have seen Labour authority after Labour authority coming to complain, wanting more central Government funding, more local funding and council tax, the transfer of the business rate into their hands, and the removal of the compulsory aspect of compulsory competitive tendering. This is not a new tax; it is the same council tax but many times greater.
 Sir Paul Beresford : That is a double-handed blow. On the one hand we have the bleeding stump, and on the other hand, the hon. Member is counting chickens long before they are hatched.
 Sir Paul Beresford : On 27 January last.
 Sir Paul Beresford : I should have thought that my hon. Friend would be used to that by now. It is what we call the bleeding stump syndrome—chop off something vital and wave it around to frighten the public.
 Sir Paul Beresford : Kent's overall standard spending assessment increased by 2.2 per cent.—just short of £22 million. Within that, the element relating to education increased by 3.5 per cent., and that relating to fire by 5 per cent. I think that my hon. Friend will agree that that is a very fair settlement.
 Sir Peter Tapsell : May I put it to my right hon. Friend that there is no such thing as a stable currency, except for relatively short periods, and that any political party that sought to base its policies on such a misconception would merely demonstrate its complete ignorance of the way in which foreign exchange markets operate in practice?
15.  Sir Sydney Chapman : To ask the Secretary of State for the Environment if he will make a statement on his policy to protect the metropolitan green belt. [12515]
 Sir Sydney Chapman : I thank my hon. Friend for that statement. Does he agree that the creation of green belts, especially the metropolitan green belts, has been one of the outstanding successes of our town and country planning system? Will he confirm that the pressure to develop in such places is at its greatest near the inner boundaries of the green belts and take this opportunity to iterate that none of the estimated 4.4 million more dwellings needed in the next 20 years are planned to be sited on green belt land?
 Several hon. Members   rose
9.  Mr. Robert Hughes : To ask the Secretary of State for Scotland what discussions he has had with education institutions concerning the employment by them of agency staff. [12889]
 Mr. Hughes : Does that answer not show the Minister's cavalier disregard for his responsibilities to education? Is he not aware that the decision by Aberdeen college and others to force their part-time staff out of service into agency employment is causing great concern about pay, conditions and standards in education, with the fear that that may be a precursor to turning all full-time staff over to agency employment?
 Several hon. Members   rose
 Dr. Robert Spink  (Castle Point) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Dr. Spink : Will my hon. Friend revisit the debate that I secured on 18 December, when I asked that the Home Office deal with those problems? He will see from reading the report of that debate that Canvey Island is a special case. Although I am sure that all hon. Members would claim that for their patch, I am sure that they would agree that that is true for Canvey Island.
 The Minister of State, Scottish Office (Lord James Douglas-Hamilton) : Next year, we are planning to spend £883 per head in Scotland—£153 more than in England.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : First, higher spending on health is justified at present because, for a variety of reasons, health spending need is greater. People who live in Scotland have a higher incidence of heart disease and cancer, and there is a greater need for dental treatment. However, my hon. Friend makes a valid point. Members of Parliament are traditionally reluctant to vote funds if they have no say over how they should be spent. A further tax-raising parliament would inevitably raise questions about the size of the Scottish block and, frankly, it is a gamble that we Conservatives are not prepared to take.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : No. Whether a person remains in hospital is a matter for clinical decision, and that is where it should remain. It is not a matter for political decision. The recent Tayside inspector's report made it absolutely clear that for comparable care there could have been huge savings—well in excess of £2 million or £3 million—if the private sector had been used more.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : My right hon. Friend is absolutely right. We have given a commitment to increase spending for the health service year on year in real terms—a commitment that the Labour party has failed to match. In Scotland, net expenditure in 1997–98 is planned to be £4.375 billion, an increase of £148 million—or 3.5 per cent.—over the 1996–97 expected outturn. If we had adopted the Opposition's line on local government finance, less would have gone to the NHS.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : Because we have made health a priority, Borders health board received an extra £3.3 million, which is a 3.7 per cent. increase and above the national average increase of 3.5 per cent. Had we given those funds to local government, again health interests in the Borders would have received less.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : Borders health board received an allocation above the national average. Hospital and community health services in Borders will receive some £69 million recurrent expenditure and £1 million non-recurrent expenditure next year. The £1 million is less than 2 per cent. of the hospital and community health services allocation for 1997–98, but it is important that the non-recurrent element can be used for restructuring and investments to boost services in future. We are committed to continuing all allocations to health boards by a fair population-based formula. I repeat the commitment that I have given the House: we are determined to increase spending for the NHS in real terms year by year—a commitment that has not been matched by Her Majesty's Opposition.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : Just as a substantial allocation has been made for Borders, so the allocation
 993
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The total increase in social work grant-aided expenditure for Borders is 8.3 per cent., but if the right hon. Gentleman's recommendations for enormous increases to local government expenditure were implemented, there would be substantially less for health. We have given top priority to the NHS. That is our commitment. It will remain our commitment, and it will generally be supported by the electorate.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : Highland health board's 1997–98 initial revenue allocation is £138 million, which reflects a 5.6 per cent. increase in the board's basic allocation over 1996–97. The local authority grant-aided expenditure allowances to Highland council for its community care responsibilities are £24.5 million in the current year, rising to £26.6 million in 1997–98.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The settlement includes provision to increase the community care allowance by £2.1 million in the highlands, which is an 8.6 per cent increase. I am of course aware that Highland council is currently consulting local interests as part of a comprehensive review of future arrangements for the care of elderly people in the highlands. I must repeat that, if the hon. Gentleman had his way and we were to give much more funding to local government, funding through the health service would be considerably less.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : Requests for hospital closures must be cleared by us, and we would consider any such request very carefully before giving approval. However, I shall look into the case and the feasibility study mentioned by the hon. Gentleman.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : Proposals are being considered to ensure that information on the net costs to local authorities of purchasing services from the private and voluntary sectors, as well as from their in-house providers, is made available to elected representatives and to the public.
 Lord James Douglas—Hamilton : That assertion is incorrect. In the next few weeks, the Scottish Office will publish directions on information that local authorities cannot disregard, and the inspector's report made it quite clear that the three authorities could save between £3 million and £6 million, which would mean between £33 million and £66 million nationally.
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : The problem is not caused by funding for community care. The increase in funding for community care is £66.5 million, taking it to about £720 million for Scotland as a whole. I shall look into the individual circumstances about which the hon. Gentleman asked, and be in touch with him in due course.
 The Minister of State, Scottish Office (Lord James Douglas-Hamilton) : We have heard some constructive speeches in the debate. The hon. Member for Caithness and Sutherland (Mr. Maclennan) referred to Raigmore as a centre of excellence and, having visited it, I endorse that view. Our whole purpose is to ensure that the NHS is engaged in the pursuit of excellence. I also wish to associate the rest of the House with the expression of sympathy from the hon. Member for Ross, Cromarty and Skye (Mr. Kennedy) towards my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State for Northern Ireland following his recent bereavement. 1058
 Lord James Douglas-Hamilton : Our policy is driven by the needs of patients. That is our top priority and we shall ensure that that happens. I can make one obvious point in response to my hon. Friend. There has been a demand for an increase in day surgery, and we have increased the amount of day surgery enormously. That is to the benefit of families and, above all, patients themselves. It is a shift in the pattern of care that is in accordance with patients' needs. 1059 1060
 Madam Speaker : Yesterday, the hon. Member for North Tayside (Mr. Walker) raised a point of order with me and was good enough to let me have the documentation so that I might examine it. I have to say to him that I can see nothing wrong in the Labour party press release to which he referred. It is perfectly open to any hon. Member to raise a subject with the Comptroller and Auditor General, either directly or by means of a conversation with the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, and to tell the media that he has done so.
 Madam Speaker : I have selected the amendment standing in the name of the Prime Minister.
 Madam Speaker : Back to the Borders with Sir David Steel.
 Madam Speaker : Order. I must caution the hon. Gentleman that we were in the Borders; I am sure that the Minister will reply appropriately about the Borders.
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : Order. I think that the House knows my views on seated interventions, especially when they are repeated.
 Mr. Adam Ingram  (East Kilbride) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Knowsley, South (Mr. O'Hara) on securing this debate. He has done us all a service. All who spoke in the debate did so passionately and constructively about the immediate and long-term effects for Merseyside and other places in the United Kingdom of Ford's plan for Halewood. They were right to record the dismay and anger of those directly affected by the announcement of the 1,300 job losses, and the added uncertainty about the remaining jobs. They were also right to spell out the impact of such job losses on the already fragile manufacturing base of Merseyside.
 Mr. Ingram : No. The hon. Gentleman was not here for the whole debate, and as a local Member of Parliament he should have been. 936
 Mr. Ingram : It is no good the Minister dismissing that by claiming that discussions with the company are confidential. We all know that, but the problem can be got round on Privy Council terms. If it was good enough for the Deputy Prime Minister to beat a path to the door of the Leader of the Opposition about the Greenwich millennium project, surely the current negotiations with Ford should be given at least the same priority. 937
 Mr. A. J. Beith  (Berwick-upon-Tweed) : Before the Minister leaves local management of schools, which Liberal Democrats pioneered in some regions and which I strongly support, I hope that he will recognise that the picture he has painted would simply not be recognised by many school governors. In my county of Northumberland, they talk about mass resignation, not because they do not like the freedom to choose where the school's money goes, but because they cannot make the budget work on the figures available to them. The job of being a school governor has become burdensome because it is a job of managing cuts.
 Mr. A. J. Beith  (Berwick-upon-Tweed) : How distant all the talk of grammar schools, opting out and grant-maintained schools seems to the majority of my constituents. I live in and represent a constituency in which the schools, for the most part, went comprehensive under a Conservative Government and a then Conservative-controlled local authority. There is only one grant-maintained school in the entire constituency, and that became grant-maintained because the Labour-controlled county council threatened to close it. In other schools where the grant-maintained issue has been raised, the proposal has been heavily defeated. The assisted places scheme, too, has a limited impact in the area, and what the vast majority of parents want to know is how the schools to which they send their children can be enabled to do an adequate job. 1094
 Mr. Beith : I hope that the hon. Gentleman will explain to his constituents in Ponteland his view that they cannot have a public inquiry into the substantial increase in traffic through the town, which they are concerned about, because to do so would impair the education budget. That is not the way in which we are supposed to run the local government system. 1095 "Northumberland does not get as much as some other authorities, because it does not serve an area of high socio-economic deprivation and it is not a high cost area in which to work."
 Mr. Beith : We could get into a complex statistical argument about whether there is such a thing as super-sparsity, and whether the sparsity factor fails to reflect the extent of sparsity in Northumberland. Sparsity is a significant problem in the education system in Northumberland. It makes it difficult for the authority to meet some of the obligations that the Department seeks to impose on it in terms of reducing surplus places, for example. Normally, the surplus places in a remote rural school cannot be removed without taking the school away from the area altogether. 1096 "Prior to our recent inspection by OFSTED invaluable advice and support had been given to the staff and, as a result, this was recognised in the report for the provision of SEN pupils in the school. For some schools post inspection assistance has also been given. This help can only lead to more successful schools in the authority who are working with the 'Code of Practice for Special Education Needs' outlined by the LEA, which has been approved by OFSTED. However, if such important services are not maintained, then working with the 'Code of Practice' becomes increasingly difficult." 1097 "this County Council believes that safeguarding the quality of the Education and Community Care services should take priority over tax cuts in the forthcoming national Budget, and urges the Chancellor of the Exchequer to protect these services by … investing at least the equivalent of 1p on income tax for Education".
 Mr. Salmond : I commiserate with the Secretary of State on the demise of his argument that Scotland is a subsidised nation. Has not the admission by the Chief Secretary to the Treasury on 13 January that Scotland has generated an absolute surplus of £27 billion since 1979 blown a black hole in the Secretary of State's argument, particularly given the Scottish Office's assumption that there will be another £12.5 billion over the next five years? Is not the reality that the subsidy junkies in the United Kingdom sit on the green Benches behind the Secretary of State—people who are so anxious to hang on to Scotland that they turn up here on a monthly basis and ask foolish planted questions?
 Mr. Stewart : Has my hon. Friend read the whole of today's  Evening Times
 Mr. Stewart : Is my right hon. Friend aware that unemployment in my constituency of Eastwood has been falling very sharply and is a great deal lower than it was five years ago, because of the excellence of the Government's policies in Scotland, including the important policy of controlling the level of business rates, especially for small business men? What would happen if a Scottish Parliament threw that policy out of the window, business rates went into the stratosphere and the Scottish Parliament also imposed a tartan tax, about which Opposition Members are enthusiastic? If they were elected, they would not pay that tax, because they work in England.
 Mr. Allan Stewart  (Eastwood) : I rise to speak a few minutes earlier than I had expected as I was waiting for the hon. Member for Birmingham, Yardley (Ms Morris) to say what Labour party policy was. However, like my hon. Friend the Minister, she dealt very effectively with the Liberal Democrat policy of putting an extra 1p on income tax. It is worth pointing out in passing that the justification for the tartan tax in Scotland is extra expenditure on education. In other words, under the Liberal Democrats, the poor Scots would pay twice as much as the English and Welsh.
 Mr. Stewart : Almost certainly, but I wish to give the Liberal Democrats the benefit of the doubt on this point.
 Mr. Stewart : On education matters, I always listen to an expert such as the hon. Gentleman, especially as, earlier in his career, he exercised his choice to teach in a Scottish school in the private sector. It is a pity that the hon. Gentleman's party wishes to deny many parents in Scotland the ability to choose to send their children to such a school. 1087 1088
 Mr. Andrew Hargreaves  (Birmingham, Hall Green) : The hon. Lady referred to Conservative Members from her region. I represent an area further south that makes motor cars. Rover and Land Rover are virtually within spitting distance of my constituency, although not in it. She does her own region proud in her defence of it.
 Mr. Hargreaves : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Hargreaves : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Mackinlay : The standards have served us well, but they do not take account of modern shopping malls, such as Lakeside. Things have moved on, and it is time for those standards to be reviewed.
 Mr. Mackinlay : No.
 Mr. Mackinlay : The hon. Lady is correct. The nearest whole-time fire station that will have to meet the deficiencies if the closures and service reductions are enacted will be Basildon, which deals already with 3,000 call-outs a year. 983 984
 Mr. Andrew Mackinlay  (Thurrock) : There is a crisis in the fire service in Essex. Before this debate, a local journalist asked me who I was going to blame. He misunderstood the motive for the debate. It is not to apportion blame but to identify that there is an acute problem with fire cover in Essex, and to try to point the way forward. If I make measured criticism, it is only to demonstrate that the county council's consultation process on the fire service review is deficient. 982
 Mr. Andrew Mackinlay  (Thurrock) : I congratulate my hon. Friend on rattling the cage of Conservative Members from Kent. Facing defeat, rather like a hanging, concentrates the mind. They come here protesting their innocence, but they have presided over real cuts in services in Kent and throughout the south-east of England.
 956
 Mr. Andrew Miller  (Ellesmere Port and Neston) : My hon. Friend drew attention to the effect on the local and
 925
 Mr. Andrew Rowe  (Mid-Kent) : It is my perception that, of all the counties in the country, Kent has the largest
 945
 Mr. Andrew Rowe  (Mid-Kent) : My hon. Friend has considerable experience in this sector. Is it usual to introduce a major capital investment in technology with the aim of increasing staff?
 Mr. Rowe : Further to that point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Rowe : It is, Mr. Deputy Speaker. It is of course entirely for you to judge whether, in the interests of clinical accuracy, the hon. Gentleman should read his speech; but it seems to me that reading a speech that makes assertions about things that, when the speech was written, could not have been known is stretching the rules rather far.
8.  Mr. Welsh : To ask the Secretary of State for Scotland when he last met the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities to discuss local government finance. [12888]
 Mr. Welsh : If only that could also be independence day for Scotland.
7.  Mr. Steen : To ask the Secretary of State for Scotland how many pages of legislation have been passed in each of the last three years; and how many pages have been repealed in the same period. [12887]
 Mr. Steen : Although the Government's deregulation initiative is going very well, is my hon. Friend aware that, since 1970, 220,000 pages of additional law have been added to the statute book? As a Scottish Minister, will he take the lead and, in addition to the qualitative test of debating measures on the Floor of the House, introduce a quantitative test whereby, when any new Scottish law is introduced, the identical amount of legislation is repealed, so that a balance is achieved and no additional laws are added to the statute book without the repeal of others at the same time?
 Mr. Kirkwood : I am grateful to the Minister for that answer, but, leaving capital aside and considering recurrent and non-recurrent expenditure, does he accept that the settlement for the Borders health board region next year is the lowest of any health board region in Scotland? Is he aware that, on Monday, the Secretary of State for Scotland came to Selkirk and tried to argue that local people should thole a massive shortfall in local authority funding on the ground that he was giving increased priority to health in Scotland?
3.  Mr. Kirkwood : To ask the Secretary of State for Scotland if he will make a statement on the level of additional resources to be made available to Borders health board for the year 1997–98 relative to the average level in Scotland [12883]
 Mr. Cash : Does my hon. Friend accept that many of the increasing number of pages and volumes of legislation being generated throughout the United Kingdom and particularly in Scotland come from the European Commission and the European Union and, furthermore, that the policies pursued by the Scottish nationalists and the Scottish Labour party giving in to federalism in Europe will increase that volume of legislation and place a terrible burden on the Scottish people?
 Mr. William Cash  (Stafford) : My hon. Friend and I have had many discussions on the status of rural dispensaries and priorities in the NHS in ensuring that, consistent with good Conservative principles of competition, pharmacies on one hand and rural dispensaries in doctors' surgeries on the other do not have an undue advantage over one another. In his role as Minister for Health, my hon. Friend has been immensely successful in applying himself to the question. Will he ensure that we stick to Conservative principles so that my constituents in Madeley and Gnosall can have an assurance, either today or as soon as possible thereafter, that the matter will be resolved, difficult as many people find it?
11.  Mr. Bill Walker : To ask the Secretary of State for Scotland what proposals he has to increase the value for money of care in the community funds; and if he will make a statement [12891]
 Mr. Walker : I thank my right hon. and learned Friend for that reply. Is he aware that the chairman of the social work committee of Perth and Kinross council has told the private sector owners that, although the inquiry into Tayside provisions showed that massive savings could be made of between £3 million and £6 million in Tayside
 1008
 Mr. Bill Walker  (North Tayside) : I beg to move,
 That leave be given to bring in a Bill to provide for the holding of a referendum on any constitutional change approved by Parliament. 1011
 Mr. Bill Walker : Does my hon. Friend agree that, since 1979, per capita spending by all Government agencies and Departments in Glasgow has far exceeded the amount spent in North Tayside? When we hear complaints from those in Glasgow—especially after the rows and ructions that have been going on there, and the spending of money on limousines rather than vehicles intended to transport people—we ask whether it is not time that we told them to shut up.
 Mr. Dunn : My hon. Friend is right. If people want to see the Labour party and its minor allies, the Liberal Democrats, in action, and anticipate what they may be like in government if they get the chance—which they will not—they are welcome to come to Kent county council, where we shall give them individually guided tours around the philosophy of the present administration. In Kent, we see Lambeth below the Thames. It holds not to responsibility and decency and the application of services in the name of the people; rather to narrow, petty, political garnering of points. That could have been avoided, and in the name of the people whom we represent it must be avoided.
 Mr. Dunn : That is a wicked example of precisely what is taking place. I use the word "wicked" in the old sense and not in the fashionable modern sense. It is also unforgivable that senior county council officers—well-respected professional men and women—are being forced to act politically in the public domain because of the inadequacy and incompetence of the Lib-Lab regime at county hall. 949
 Mr. Dunn : As I have said in the context of all the other services that I have mentioned, it is cruel and wicked to focus on people who are least able to defend themselves and who need essential services to preserve their quality of life. For us, that is unforgivable.
 Mr. Dunn : I entirely agree. The loss of the area cost adjustment would affect Kent to the tune of at least £10 million. That may please members of the Opposition parties, who never understand such matters.
 Mr. Dunn : No, no, no, a thousand times no.
 Mr. Dunn : Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I mean no disrespect to the hon. Member—the hereditary Member—for North-West Durham; I have no desire to stop her from speaking. Would that I could. I believe that, when she is put in her coffin, she will still be talking when they nail the lid on. 948
 Mr. Dunn : I agree with my right hon. Friend and declare an interest, because my son is a pupil at the Judd school, as is the son of my hon. Friend the hon. Member for Gravesham. My right hon. Friend's point applies not just to grammar schools, but to high schools, the city technology colleges and all primary and secondary schools that become grant-maintained. They would lose all the freedoms that they currently enjoy as a result of Conservative legislation, because Labour and the Stalinists at county hall wish to take back into local authority control all the schools that dared, as a result of parental ballots, to go outside local education authority control.
 Mr. Dunn : The list is endless. One of my favourite items of Kent county council expenditure is the £700,000 it spends each year on magazines and periodicals for the use of administrative officers.
 Mr. Dunn : No, I cannot give my hon. Friend that assurance, because it is not there to give. The council has lost control of many services, but it has failed to cut bureaucracy. Administration has increased in the past four years, rather than reduced to reflect the position to which my hon. Friend referred.
 Mr. Dunn : On the evidence available to me, Kent's behaviour is worse, in that it has failed to cut bureaucracy and administration and to honour its commitment to maintaining front-line services.
 Mr. Dunn : My hon. Friend makes his point eloquently, and he is right.
 Mr. Dunn : I dare say we shall find that out in the fulness of time.
 Mr. Dunn : What the authority's officials are doing is quite wrong. I have a letter from a constituent: he is a resident of Dartford, to whom I wrote on 23 January. He says:
 "I am still confused as to why KCC has had to reduce its services to those who need and depend on them. On the evening of the 27 January 1997, I attended a meeting of a local charity. A Spokesperson from Social Services outlined how the cuts in KCC's budget will affect the many services used in the local area. Again Central Government is blamed! I informed the meeting that you had informed me that Central Government had not cut the funding to KCC but had given a 2.2 per cent. increase on the previous year. The Spokesperson told the meeting that this is not correct and the cuts that KCC had to make are as a direct result of Central Government spending targets."
 Mr. Dunn : My experience as a long-serving Member of Parliament has shown me that the Labour party and the truth have long been strangers.
 Mr. Dunn : My right hon. Friend has put his point effectively and well. That is the point of this debate. All Conservative Members are conscious of the massive disinformation campaign that has taken place by means of Kent county council's publicity and propaganda machine, aided and abetted—indeed pushed—by the Labour and Liberal Democrat leadership at county hall.
 Mr. Dunn : My hon. Friend makes an excellent point. I am sure that she will waste no time in telling her constituents of the commitment given by the Conservative leadership in Maidstone. Indeed, the message that emerges from this debate is that those who wish to guarantee their services must vote Conservative on 1 May. 947
 Mr. Dunn : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his intervention. He is right, and he will know that Conservative representatives on the local education authority voted against cuts to Kent music school. That is on record and can be seen by those of our constituents who support the music school. I shall refer to other matters raised by my hon. Friend in a few minutes.
 Mr. Dunn : I am most grateful to my hon. Friend, whose record of service to our county is distinguished. Conservative Members would like to pay tribute to her for the battling way in which she has fought for her constituents, whom she has represented so well and over so many years. I should particularly like to pay tribute to her on her contribution to the future of the adult education service. 943
 Mr. Dunn : Your glow is so strong that I dare not look at you, Mr. Deputy Speaker—but I shall from now on.
 Mr. Dunn : It was sent to all Liberal Democrat members. The hereditary Member should keep her mouth shut and learn to listen. "Nevertheless a large part of the budget pressures are as a result of our own policy decisions."
 Mr. Dunn : Exactly so—my hon. Friend anticipates a later part of my speech. The realism that suddenly swept through the Liberal Democrat group was a bursting of new flame. It recognised that it has, by its decisions, contributed to the present financial situation of Kent county council. Given that rare burst of political honesty, why are the Liberal Democrats so committed to cutting front-line services, instead of reducing bureaucracy and administration? Why are they frenetic in their desire to establish new committees, new forums and new talking shops, and why do they indulge in a wide range of non-core activities? Kent Today 944
 Mr. Dunn : I shall not give way.
 Mr. Dunn : That may well be. The Government announced an increase of £22 million—which everyone recognises is a fair settlement—thus leaving Kent county council to claim a shortfall of £79 million. By black art spin-doctoring, it converted its wish list into Government cuts. How deceitful, dishonest and cruel.
 Mr. Bob Dunn  (Dartford) : I am grateful to have secured today's Adjournment debate on revenue support grant for Kent county council. Such a debate is timely, and I welcome my parliamentary colleagues from across the county here today. Among those whom I welcome are my right hon. Friends the Members for South Thanet (Mr. Aitken) and for Tonbridge and Mailing (Sir J. Stanley), and my hon. Friends the Members for North Thanet (Mr. Gale), for Gillingham (Mr. Couchman), for Gravesham (Mr. Arnold), for Faversham (Sir R. Moate), for Dover (Mr. Shaw) and for Medway (Dame P. Fenner).
 Mr. Donohoe : Is it possible that the additional expenditure on health in Scotland is to line the pockets of the private sector? In my constituency, most geriatric beds are being transferred to the private sector, where excess profits are being made. Is that not another example to show that the national health service is not safe in Tory hands?
 Mr. Kennedy : I thank the Minister for those figures. Will he acknowledge that, in the highlands, as elsewhere in Scotland, a mixed economy of provision, particularly in care of the elderly, will remain essential? Against a difficult financial backdrop, particularly in the local authority's social work department, a major consultation exercise is now under way, and public provision of care of the elderly faces a very uncertain future. There is uncertainty at such facilities as Urray house, in Muir of Ord, as there is at other facilities in the constituencies of my hon. Friends the Members for Caithness and Sutherland (Mr. Maclennan) and for Inverness. Nairn and Lochaber (Sir R. Johnston).
5.  Mr. Charles Kennedy : To ask the Secretary of State for Scotland if he will make a statement on his funding projections for health and community care in the highlands for (a) 1996–97 and (b) 1997–98. [12885]
 Mr. Charles Kennedy  (Ross, Cromarty and Skye) : I wish to ask a follow-up question on the rather intriguing theory now being advanced by the Minister. Clearly, there will be differences in the definition of different facilities within the health service, and I quite accept that. But is the hon. Gentleman trying to tell the House of Commons that, as the Minister for Health, he does not have at his disposal relevant information as to the rate of closure of hospital facilities throughout England and Wales? Surely that information is central to the conduct of his duties.
 Mr. Charles Kennedy   rose
 Mr. Kennedy : I am grateful to the Minister, as he has been generous about interventions. On dental charges, surely the Minister, like every other hon. Member, will have anecdotal evidence—through his family, for example—and any dentist could tell him the same story. Dentists can give comprehensive and proper preventive and restorative attention to only two categories of patient—those who are fully funded by the benefits system because of their income status and those who can afford to pay. A great swathe of middle-class families do not qualify for support and are having to take short cuts, or are not undergoing the full treatment that the dental surgeon prescribes.
 Mr. Kennedy : No, I am sorry. I only have a few minutes to speak, and I must move on. 1056 [Interruption.] 1057
 Mr. Kennedy : If the hon. Gentleman will forgive me, I want to touch on some of the points made in the debate.
 Mr. Kennedy : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Kennedy : The hon. Gentleman happens not to have used his insurance, and I certainly hope that he does
 1055
 Mr. Kennedy : Choice is entirely open to the individual in the marketplace, but that choice should not be bankrolled by the state via the tax system. It was the former Prime Minister who insisted on allowing that, although, as was well reported at the time, it went rather against the instincts of her then Secretary of State for Health, the right hon. and learned Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke), who is now Chancellor of the Exchequer. "a freeze on all finance-driven bed, hospital and service closures",
 Mr. Charles Kennedy  (Ross, Cromarty and Skye) : We have had a useful set of exchanges, and we await the Minister's wind-up speech. At the outset, I associate my right hon. and hon. Friends with the condolences expressed to the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, the hon. Member for North-East Cambridgeshire (Mr. Moss), following his recent bereavement. Clearly, hon. Members on both sides of the House will want to extend their sincere condolences to him.
 Mr. Kennedy : No, I shall not give way to the hon. Gentleman.  [Interruption]
 Mr. Kennedy : I shall answer the hon. Gentleman in a minute. 1053
 Mr. Kennedy : The hon. Gentleman has not been listening with sufficient care, or he would have heard both my hon. Friend the Member for Caithness and Sutherland and my hon. Friend the Member for Southwark and Bermondsey, when he opened the debate, setting out in crystal clear fashion specifically what the commitments are. The hon. Gentleman will find them in the columns of  Hansard
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman will give way after the hon. Member for Belfast, South has intervened.
 Mr. D. N. Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : The hon. Gentleman has not answered my hon. Friend's question.
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : May I press the hon. Gentleman on the issue raised by my hon. Friend the Member for Bolsover? He says that the Liberal Democrats voted in three Divisions to spend £700 million, and in another Division voted to save £1.8 billion. There is a shortfall of £1.1 billion. Is the hon. Gentleman saying that that £1.1 billion would cover all the expenditure commitments that the Liberal Democrats have made in debates on education and the health service? Can I tie him down on those figures? Does he understand them?
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : Two years ago, the hon. Member for Gravesham (Mr. Arnold) tried to claim on local radio that Kent had received a spending increase of £26 million, when the real figure was £6 million. He did so by misrepresenting the money for community care that had been ring-fenced to cover responsibilities transferred from central Government—
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : This year on 23 January, at column 1077 of  Hansard,
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : My hon. Friend puts his point most forcefully, as ever.
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : I do not intend to give way. There have now been 17 Conservative interventions.
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : As I was saying, what both contributions reveal is that the intricacies of local government are not understood by the two hon. Members to whom I have referred. The more they protest, the more they demonstrate either their ignorance or perhaps their malevolence. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : I am not prepared to give way. The hon. Gentleman's party has had more than its share of the debate. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : Let us return to the famous £100 million, which the hon. Member for Mid-Kent was on about yesterday. For Kent county council, that sum is an honest and, so far, unchallenged estimate of what would be required to protect all existing services, to meet inescapable financial commitments, to meet pay and price increases and to provide for demographic changes and the cost of new responsibilities placed on local authorities by central Government. That is the explanation for which Conservative Members have been waiting.
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : Those matters do not surprise me. What does surprise me is that, over the past few years, they have never been drawn to Parliament's attention by Conservative Members. At no stage have they raised those issues. 957 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : The likely figures are 9.5 per cent. for social services and 7.2 per cent. for the non-delegated education budget. Those figures should enable the council to avoid closure of its adult education service, its youth and community service and its residential homes. They would also avoid reducing fire cover below minimum standards, although the budget will still require the closure of five retained fire stations and the removal of four retained engines from other stations. However, even that has been made possible only by not fully protecting school budgets from the effects of higher numbers and increased costs. Schools will face a real-terms reduction of 4 per cent.
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : As you say, Mr. Deputy Speaker, it was not a point of order. It was also not an accepted intervention, or I would have produced material showing that, on many hundreds of occasions in recent years, the hon. Lady has obediently trooped into Conservative Lobbies to support legislation and financial measures that have damaged the interests of the people of Kent.
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : I defer to the hon. Gentleman's knowledge in those matters, as he is an expert in many issues of community care. It may well be that some Conservative Members from Kent have on occasion raised those issues in the House; but the critical question is how they have voted when Parliament has allocated money for those types of expenditure. The truth is that the people of Kent are being taken for granted by those who are supposed to be representing their interests in Westminster. "The truth is the County Council has reduced its management and administration costs by"— "£23m … over 3 years and cut budgets of its central departments by 13.5 per cent. It is continuing such savings in 97/98 but these cannot cover the shortfall." Local Government Chronicle 959 Kent Messenger [Interruption.]
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : And me.
 Mr. D. N. Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way on that very point?
 Mr. Campbell-Savours   rose
 Mr. D. N. Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : When I hear Conservative Members attacking Kent councillors for visiting countries, I am minded to say only that those Members should be careful because people in glasshouses should not throw stones. The people of Kent should know that the great majority of Members of Parliament for Kent, all of whom are Conservative, have on many occasions over the years been abroad at public expense, on travel paid for by the British taxpayer. 953 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : I am using notes for reasons of clinical accuracy. It is important that the people of Kent know the truth—as opposed to the statistics bandied about the Chamber for the past few years. My accurate figures were produced for me, at my request, by Kent county council. I asked for the figures so that I could use them in this debate.
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : Hon. Members from most other counties, including many Conservative Members, have in recent years spoken for the people they represent, and have even joined in deputations to Ministers. Not one of Kent's 16 Conservative Members of Parliament, however, has stood up for local services or represented the county authority.
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : I am afraid that I cannot give way. There have been 16 Conservative interventions in this debate. I am the first to put the other side of the argument. 954
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. That was exactly what I was waiting for. You will be aware that 10 Conservative Members representing Kent have either spoken or intervened in the debate, and you will have heard that denial of the right of a Labour Member to intervene. Would you say that that—
 Mr. David Alton  (Liverpool, Mossley Hill) : The hon. Member for Knowsley, South (Mr. O'Hara) has rendered the House a service in so ably painting the depressing picture of what will happen as a result of the job losses at Halewood. It is for the rest of us to put some brush strokes on that canvas, to try to support the points that he has made.
 Mr. Alton : I have literally five minutes. I hope that the hon. Gentleman will forgive me, but I know that other hon. Members want to get in. 931
 Mr. Congdon : If there were a Scottish Parliament, how could I justify the significant extra amount that is spent on health in Scotland to my constituents in Croydon when I would have no vote on Scottish health matters or funding?
2.  Mr. Congdon : To ask the Secretary of State for Scotland what assessment he has made of the level of health spending per head in Scotland relative to that elsewhere in the United Kingdom. [12881]
 Mr. David Congdon  (Croydon, North-East) : I am intrigued by this passage on funding, because presumably—if the hon. Lady is upset about it—she will make a spending pledge to make that funding available, which she says is not there.
 Mr. David Congdon  (Croydon, North-East) : When the debate started, the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Foster) rightly outlined some of the principles or objectives of education in terms of wanting to ensure that all youngsters who came out of education were valued, respected and able to contribute to our society in its various forms. All parties would, in general, echo those principles. We all recognise the need for a well-educated work force. 1098 1099
 Mr. Congdon : It has always been like that.
 Mr. David Marshall : Is the Secretary of State not ashamed by the unacceptably high levels of unemployment and poverty in Glasgow? By how much would the 11 Glasgow constituencies have benefited in total if they had received the same preferential treatment pro rata as the constituencies of his fellow Tory Members, especially his own constituency of Stirling?
 Mr. David Rendel  (Newbury) : Is the hon. Lady aware—I learned of it today, on a visit to the Wirral—that, next year, Labour-controlled Wirral council is planning an education cut of £1.2 million, but that, if it chose to, it could spend that money? It is planning a budget for next year which, unlike those of most authorities, will be £4 million under cap.
 Mr. David Shaw  (Dover) : I respect the fact that the hon. Gentleman is trying to identify some party differences over this subject. But does he not accept that two thirds of the health service has been built by a Conservative Government at one time or another and that two thirds of the hospitals and all the capital projects in this country were built by Conservative Governments? Is not the health service a Conservative success?
 Mr. David Shaw : Labour cannot run local government.
 Mr. Shaw : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I am very concerned about whether the relevant papers are available in the Vote Office showing that Kent has had the largest SSA increase of any shire county in the United Kingdom. It is important that those papers should be available in the Vote Office, so that Opposition Members can talk about the truth.
 Mr. David Shaw   rose
 Mr. David Shaw  (Dover) : My hon. Friend has spoken about the wasteful use of staff in Kent. At a recent constituency surgery, I met two parents and their disabled son. They were almost in tears because they were being asked by Kent county council to pay higher social services charges. The council plans to increase staffing in social services by 80 people, but it is hitting disabled people and their parents.
 Mr. David Shaw  (Dover) : Kent has had 100 years of relative stability under the Conservatives. Incredibly, Kent survived one economic crisis after another under Labour Governments and services were maintained. In the past four years, as a result of a Labour-Liberal pact, there has been ever-increasing disaster and chaos. A budgeting system that needs an increase of £101 million has been based on a pie-in-the-sky figure. On expenditure of £1,000 million, Kent is demanding an increase of 10 per cent. What Government in Europe or what county council or shire council in this country plans an increase of that size? I have looked at the statistics, but I cannot find any shire county that is planning an increase in expenditure at the level that Kent county council under Labour-Liberal control claims to need.
 Mr. Shaw : As my hon. Friend points out, it is incredible that, after all the new technology investment,
 951
 Mr. Shaw : My right hon. Friend makes the valid point that, if anyone needs adult education in Kent, it is the Liberal-Labour county councillors, because they cannot tell when a positive figure—an increase in expenditure—is an increase and not a reduction. At public meetings, they cannot tell the truth—that an increase in expenditure is extra money that is available. They insist that it is a reduction. That shows the fraudulent nature of their mathematics, accounting and budgeting.
 Mr. Shaw : My hon. Friend is absolutely correct. There are far too many committees in Kent county council. There is far too much bureaucracy and far too much paperwork moving around, and there is not enough action or service delivery. That is what we are interested in as Conservatives: action, service delivery and increased efficiency. That is why there are threats of cuts in Kent's fire service. It is ludicrous.
 Mr. Shaw : My hon. Friend makes a point. As that councillor is my Labour opponent, I am slightly embarrassed to have to refer to his 14 trips. My hon. Friend may feel that, in due course, the electorate in Dover and Deal will be interested in those 14 trips abroad, including to Hungary and Philadelphia in the United States of America, and in their relevance to the needs of Dover and of fire stations in our region. 952
 Sir David Steel : Will the Minister take note of the fact that, when my hon. Friend the Member for Roxburgh and Berwickshire (Mr. Kirkwood) visited the Borders general hospital during the Christmas recess, he found that acute beds were being blocked by elderly people who should be cared for in the community or in nursing homes? That problem is caused by the lack of financial resources both to the health board and to the local authority. It cannot be in patients' interests. Will the Minister undertake to examine the problem?
 Mr. Trimble : Perhaps the Minister will remind his right hon. Friend that the crucial question is whether the interconnector will go ahead; if the undergrounding that the Secretary of State is considering is required, it is probable that the interconnector will not go ahead. It thus comes down to considering whether the project is to go ahead. Will he remind the Secretary of State that he must, in his deliberations, rise above purely local considerations and think about the national interest? He is one of Her Majesty's Secretaries of State: he must consider the national interest.
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : It is true that the Liberal Democrats voted against the income tax cut.
 Mr. Skinner : Two years running, as the hon. Gentleman says. We should get the record straight. The Liberal Democrats voted against the last income tax cut, which would have produced £1.8 billion extra to spend on the national health service and education. I did the same. However, the hon. Gentleman will recall that there were three further votes that night on measures to spend money. The Liberal Democrats voted against the reduction in income tax, thereby saving money for the health service and education—or so they said—and then proceeded to get rid of that money by voting against the airport tax and the increase in petrol tax.
 Mr. Skinner : It is true.
 Mr. Skinner : Why did he vote against the airport tax?
 Mr. Don Foster : Does the hon. Lady believe that it would be irresponsible to increase it by just 1p?
 Mr. Don Foster  (Bath) : I beg to move.
 That this House believes that the Government has consistently failed to invest sufficient resources in schools to ensure a high-quality education service; and believes that any incoming Government should make a commitment to increase spending on education — if necessary by increased taxation — to pay for high-quality early-years education for all three and four year olds whose parents want it, extra resources for schools to invest in books and equipment and continuing professional development for teachers, a reduction in class sizes and extra support for pupils with special educational needs and to tackle the backlog of repairs to school buildings. 1069
 Mr. Don Foster : I apologise for interrupting the Minister, but this is important. Does he not understand that the SSA increases, however large they might be, are not related to the amount of money that is provided by the Government? The Chancellor's Red Book for the last Budget makes it clear that the amount in real terms made available to local government this year is exactly the same as the amount in the forthcoming year. There is no real-terms increase in the money. In effect, the Government can say to LEAs, "Spend as much as you like," but if the Government do not give them the resources, and if they then put a capping limit on LEAs as well, the LEAs simply cannot do it. The Minister surely understands that.
 Mr. Foster : My hon. Friend makes the point from a sedentary position that we are not sure which Conservative council is being used to judge us, given the few Conservative councils that now exist. People know that education in the areas that the Conservative party used to control was extremely badly damaged.
 Mr. Foster : No. The Minister should look at our policy documents, because we have made it clear that the work of the Higher Education Funding Council is vital. We have, however, called into question the work of the Further Education Funding Council. We have proposed a
 1070 "Insufficient resources now threaten the provision of education in the state school sector". "have shortages of books which adversely affect teaching and make the setting of homework difficult." "insufficient books to meet the needs of the curriculum." "a detrimental effect on teaching and learning." 1071
 Mr. Foster : That is an interesting point, which was the subject of some debate today. The Select Committee was discussing the problems caused by the nursery voucher scheme, and the way in which some schools are changing their admissions policies. The hon. Gentleman, however, makes an even more significant point about the crucial importance of efficient use of existing resources. I entirely agree with him about that. He may be surprised to learn that all the surveys that have been conducted show that Liberal Democrat-run local education authorities use resources most efficiently, and have the smallest amount of money held back centrally. They delegate the most to individual schools.
 Mr. Foster : I am delighted to learn that the figure on the hon. Gentleman's briefing note, calculated by his friends in Conservative central office, has dropped so dramatically from the £7 billion to which they referred on a similar briefing note only a year ago. I can assure the hon. Gentleman that, by the time of the general election, he will have sight of the detailed costings for our education proposals, as, indeed, will the whole country. The fundamental difference between the Liberal Democrats and the other political parties is that we believe in being honest with the electorate—telling them what our policies will cost, and where the money will come from.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Foster : I hope that the hon. Gentleman will forgive me if I do not. I want to make a little more
 1072 1073 "We were appalled to learn of the proposed cuts to the Education budget for 1997–98", "our schools can continue to function without having to resort to drastic measures which would jeopardise the education of our children, and lead to blight in the economy of our country in future years." "Your Government maintains that education is a high priority and that standards must improve. How can this be when schools are faced with further cuts in their finances?" "a crusade for education, rallying opposition against proposed swingeing … cuts." "Any cuts to teaching and teaching staff are going to impact in the classroom. There is no way to avoid that." The Bath Chronicle, "Last Friday Education Secretary Gillian Shephard washed her hands of the cash crisis, claiming the local authority had 'perfectly adequate and substantial funds' to spend on schools. But people at last night's meeting laid the blame for the crisis squarely at the Government's door. St. Gregory's headteacher David Byrne said: 'Take no notice of what Gillian Shephard said. Right from the start this authority has been under-funded.'" "has not increased in line with its responsibility." "council tax bills increase, it will be because Labour and Liberal Democrat councillors choose to increase them. If services are cut, it will be because Labour and Liberal Democrat councillors choose to cut them. No one is forcing them to increase council tax bills or to cut services."—[ Official Report, 1074
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : I make two points. First, the Government appear to have been caught on the starting blocks by this decision, yet they have key responsibilities, not only because of the effect on the balance of payments and regional employment levels, but because their decisions on employment policies have made the United Kingdom a soft touch as opposed to Spain and Germany, when multinationals make difficult decisions about which plants to close. 933
 Sir Donald Thompson  (Calder Valley) : The hon. Lady is making a very careful and interesting speech; and I heard what she said about the difference between London and the provinces, which seem to manage these matters rather better. Nonetheless, will she now take the opportunity to appeal to local government across the country to stop blocking hospital beds? In my constituency, 50 beds are being blocked by the local social services people, who will not allow old people who have been assessed into care homes, because those care homes are private. It is a scandal which the hon. Lady's words would help to alleviate.
 Mr. Doug Hoyle  (Warrington, North) : I was interested in what the Minister said about productivity. Does he agree with figures that show that it is £600 cheaper to produce the vehicle in Britain than it is in Germany?
 Mr. Eddie Loyden  (Liverpool, Garston) : I have only a few minutes to make my case, and the issue that I want to raise is as important as the Ford decision. Merseyside Members of Parliament will know that the economy of the area has been based for the past century and beyond on the port. Think of the factories along the dock road in the last century—Tate and Lyle, Silcocks, the British American Tobacco company—and the host of ship repair yards on both sides of the Mersey. All that has gone. 935
 Mr. O'Hara : Will the Minister bear in mind the fact that the multi-activity vehicle is based on the platform of the Escort? It is likely that there will be under-capacity for Escort production for the market beyond the millennium. Will he investigate with the company the possibility of investment not only to bring the MAV to Merseyside but to retain the Ford Escort? There is a case for having both.
 Mr. O'Hara : My hon. Friend has raised an interesting point that I hope the Government will bear in mind in discussions with Mr. Nasser, when considering their commitment to production in Britain. The Observer
 Mr. O'Hara : Absolutely. There could not be a better demonstration of the objectivity of the case that I am presenting than the fact that car workers in a factory just across the Mersey are supporting their opposition in the market. I note that my hon. Friends the Members for St. Helens, South (Mr. Bermingham) and for Bootle (Mr. Benton) have joined the debate. 926
 Mr. O'Hara : I shall make some observations about the point my hon. Friend has raised later in my speech, when I turn to the direct financial costs of supporting an additional 1,300 unemployed people. I am sure that my hon. Friend and all hon. Members are aware of the indirect costs of unemployment and its associated deprivation. 923 "Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes"
 Mr. O'Hara : Indeed. I thank my hon. Friend for that practical example. The effects that he describes could be repeated many times elsewhere. 921 922
 Mr. Edward O'Hara  (Knowsley, South) : This debate, which I am grateful to have been granted, is about Government assistance to the Ford plant at Halewood. I welcome the impressive support of colleagues from Merseyside and beyond. I note the presence of my hon. Friends the Members for Liverpool, West Derby (Mr. Wareing), for Ellesmere Port and Neston (Mr. Miller), for Liverpool, Walton (Mr. Kilfoyle), for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson), for Leigh (Mr. Cunliffe), for Birkenhead (Mr. Field), for Knowsley, North (Mr. Howarth), for West Lancashire (Mr. Pickthall), for Liverpool, Broadgreen (Mrs. Kennedy), for St. Helens, North (Mr. Evans) and for Warrington, North (Mr. Hoyle), and that of the hon. Member for Liverpool, Mossley Hill (Mr. Alton). I understand that others may be coming later to support me. I must also mention my hon. Friend the Member for Wallasey (Ms Eagle), who is here but subjected to enforced silence. Such support is indicative of the severity of the crisis now facing the Ford plant at Halewood. 920
 Mr. Eric Clarke : Is the Minister aware that the interconnector will burn the equivalent of 600,000 tonnes of coal? Is he further aware that the coal used by Cockenzie power station comes from Monktonhall; and that Scottish Office Ministers were involved in encouraging Waverley Mining to invest in that mine? The company has spent £15 million on new machinery, so jobs in my constituency and in East Lothian will clearly be under threat if the project does not go ahead.
 The Minister of State, Department for Education and Employment (Mr. Eric Forth) : I warmly congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Mr. Walden) on bringing this important debate to the
 1121 1122 "degrees rain down like confetti in a mass, underfunded system of suspect quality". 1123 1124
 Mr. Ernie Ross  (Dundee, West) : No, they will not.
 Mr. Ernie Ross : Has any of the Scottish Office team visited any of the project work pilots in Hull or Maidstone to see exactly what the scheme to be foisted on Scotland consists of? If any Minister has done so, could he tell us exactly what benefit Scotland will receive from the scheme?
 Mr. Frank Field  (Birkenhead) : On behalf of the hon. Members from the Wirral area, one of whom has had to take a trappist vow for the debate, may I draw to the attention of those following our proceedings the fact that there are more hon. Members present in the Chamber than there often are for debates subject to a three-line Whip? We could obviously take up the whole day debating the issue if that were possible. That is how seriously we take the problem.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : Order. We now move to the debate on the second Severn crossing.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : Has the hon. Gentleman the leave of the right hon. Member for Northavon (Sir J. Cope) or of the Minister to speak?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Time is up.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman must control himself.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. That is not a point of order. However, the hon. Lady has made her point.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : I am quite sure that the papers are available.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. A debate seems to be going on from a sedentary position on both sides. That must cease. The hon. Lady must be allowed to make her case.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : I must inform the House that Madam Speaker has selected the amendment in the name of the Prime Minister.
 Mr. Galloway : That depends on whether the Secretary of State is Scotland's man in the Cabinet or the Cabinet's man in Scotland. Does he have any understanding of how that "good deal for Scotland" looks on the streets of Glasgow to the 30,000 people who demonstrated there a week last Saturday? It looks like another dismal round of school closures, wind and rain coming through houses that cannot be repaired, day care centres being shut and a further spiral downward in the standard of public services in Glasgow, which is already beset by poverty and mass unemployment.
 Mr. George Howarth  (Knowsley, North)   rose
 Mr. Howarth : Does my hon. Friend agree that the work force at Ford are not asking for special treatment? However, there is something that the workers do expect—this is something that the Minister will have to address when he sums up.
 Mr. Kynoch : I am well aware of that. I should point out that my right hon. Friend has said that he is minded to approve the interconnector, subject to four sections of it being undergrounded. It is on that aspect that he has sought further advice from the interested parties; but the matters to which the hon. Gentleman refers are commercial. They are therefore for the companies concerned, not for my right hon. Friend.
 Mr. Kynoch : I know that the hon. Gentleman will appreciate that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State has to consider all representations made to him on the issue. This afternoon, the hon. Gentleman has once again disclosed the significant split between Labour Members, in that the hon. Member for Carrick, Cumnock and Doon Valley (Mr. Foulkes) was shaking his head the whole time the hon. Gentleman was asking his question. My right hon. Friend will seriously consider all representations; when he has done, that he will make his announcement.
 Mr. Kynoch : My right hon. Friend is considering representations received and, once he has done so, will announce his decision.
 Mr. Kynoch : As I told the hon. Member for East Antrim (Mr. Beggs), we are well aware of the significant interest in Northern Ireland in the project, but I know that my right hon. Friend is considering all representations. I am sure that the hon. Gentleman would not expect him to reach a conclusion before giving serious consideration to all aspects. He is doing that; he will do that; and when he is ready he will make an announcement.
 Mr. Kynoch : As I have said, my right hon. Friend listens to all representations. I know that the hon. Gentleman and his colleagues have a great interest in the matter. Indeed, the Secretary of State has received a letter about it from the hon. Gentleman, and has already agreed to meet him and a small delegation of his colleagues at the earliest opportunity.
 Mr. Kynoch : I understand what my hon. Friend is saying. He is referring to a report in yesterday's  Evening Times,
 Mr. Kynoch : The hon. Gentleman is very brave to come here and talk about Glasgow at all, in the light of the article in today's Glasgow  Evening Times
 Mr. Kynoch : I shall not comment on allegations that are reported in the Glasgow  Evening Times.
 Mr. Kynoch : Yet again, we have heard a reference to distribution. I have already covered the distribution of local government funds; as for urban funding, perhaps the hon. Lady should visit some other parts of Scotland, where people think the exact opposite—that Glasgow has received more than its fair share over the years.
 Mr. Kynoch : I noticed that the Opposition Chief Whip had his eyes closed during that contribution. I am not surprised, because the hon. Gentleman has a bit of a cheek. Unfortunately, he believes in removing choice from the people of Scotland. If he talked to people in one of the pilot areas, such as Eastwood, which is close to Glasgow—the city that we are discussing—he would discover what a successful scheme it has been and that it has had a high take-up. It is right and proper that people in the rest of Scotland should be able to enjoy such a scheme so that they can give their four-year-old children nursery education.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. George Kynoch) : I have offered to meet a delegation of hon. Members from Glasgow and representatives of the council next week.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. George Kynoch) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Dundee, East (Mr. McAllion) on securing this debate. I have listened very carefully to all that he has said, and will attempt to deal with some of the points in the time remaining.
 Mr. Kynoch : No, I shall not give way, because I want to try to get through as much as I can in this very short debate. 969 970
 Mr. Kynoch : The hon. Gentleman provides a classic illustration of the Labour party in Scotland, especially his wing of it, which is intent on selling Scotland down the river, and on refusing to recognise the significant improvements that the Government's policies have achieved in Scotland and the help given to those unfortunate enough not to be in employment. All he can do is carp. I suggest—I may have time to enlarge on this later—that his policies would do nothing to help the situation. In fact, they would have the reverse effect. 971 972
 Mr. George Robertson : Could we hear a little less humbug from Ministers, the arch-priests of waste who lost £1 billion of taxpayers' money on the poll tax? Less preaching would be much appreciated in Scotland.
 Mr. George Robertson : I hope that the Minister will accept that there is one piece of legislation that both sides of the House want to get through Parliament before the general election—the Firearms (Amendment) Bill, which will tighten up the law on handguns. Will he join me in condemning the action of unelected hereditary peers who seek to dilute, weaken and sabotage the Bill, which has
 1001
 Mr. George Robertson   indicated dissent.
 Mr. George Walden  (Buckingham) : I have instigated this somewhat intimate debate— [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
 Mr. Walden : Higher education faces severe problems—the students know it, the academics know it, the vice-chancellors know it, the media know it and Members of Parliament know it. But the subject cannot be openly debated in the House of Commons, because the solutions are as unpalatable to the public as they would be to their parliamentary representatives. The public are not anxious to hear the truth about higher education, and we in this House are in no hurry to tell it to them. In that sense at least, the cover-up over the state of our universities is fully democratic. 1118 "It may therefore be necessary for all students to make a contribution towards the cost of their tuition as well as their maintenance. This private payment would be in addition to funding council grants and tuition fees made to Universities under current funding arrangements." 1119 1120 "The present system which allows any student with minimal qualifications to follow any course or mixture of courses without regard to intellectual or vocational quality, utility, social or economic need, and at the taxpayers' expense, is unsustainable … The decision to expand higher education before attending to the schools was like adding an extra storey to a house with crumbling foundations."
 Mr. Gerald Bermingham  (St. Helens, South) : I declare an interest, in that many of my friends and those with whom I work in St. Helens are shop stewards and employees at Halewood. One can actually see the Halewood plant from St. Helens, South, as it is only just down the road, in the constituency of my hon. Friend the Member for Knowsley, South (Mr. O'Hara). People who live in St. Helens and Knowsley know what unemployment means, and it is not just the loss of a job. 932 The Independent
 The Minister for Health (Mr. Gerald Malone) : I beg to move, To leave out from "House" to the end of the Question and to add instead thereof:
 "is committed to the National Health Service as a public service, promoting health and offering increasing volumes of high-quality health care on the basis of need regardless of the ability to pay; and welcomes the Government's continuing commitment to real terms increases in NHS spending year by year.". Nursing Times and Nursing Mirror. [Interruption.] 1021
 Mr. Malone : Since we began to examine waiting times and since we bore down on them with the patients charter standard and the setting of benchmarks, remarkable progress has been made. The vast majority of patients are now treated within three months of an operation being diagnosed as necessary. The hon. Gentleman may shake his head, but he fails to recognise that, during the winter months, when there is pressure on the health service, elective surgery will take second place to emergency care. That is perfectly obvious—it is how the NHS has always operated. The important point is whether we are continuing to build on the standards that we have brought into the health service. I confirm that that will be the priority of this Government and of the next Conservative Government.
 Mr. Malone : I told the hon. Gentleman that when the service is under great pressure, of course elective surgery will take second place for a while. Progress on reducing waiting times and securing better standards, if we can, has to be maintained. The hon. Lady is making a non-existent point.
 Mr. Malone : That is absolutely right. The history of reducing waiting times—as my hon. Friend understands, but the hon. Member for Southwark and Bermondsey clearly does not—shows that, to maintain progress, it is important to invest in that progress. The Government have consistently done that by setting targets and standards and by the actions that we took to cope with the emergency pressures that we foresaw during the winter.
 Mr. Malone : No. I want to move on to my next point. I have given way a lot so far. 1023
 Mr. Malone : It is a disgraceful allegation for the hon. Gentleman to cast aspersions on civil servants who prepare statistics.
 Mr. Malone : The hon. Gentleman should have a care. People can always promise to do more. Within NHS dentistry, anything that is clinically required is available for patients. Of course, there is a system of charges that raises a substantial amount that can be spent elsewhere in the NHS or targeted at at-risk groups in dentistry. The hon. Member for Southwark and Bermondsey completely failed to recognise that properly targeting need in the NHS is far more important than simply spreading the resource thinly across a population: that cannot bring results.
 Mr. Malone : I shall give way for the last time.
 Mr. Malone : Let me develop my point, and I might give way to the hon. Lady in due course. Recently, we have made the NHS a far more open organisation, and it is now more accountable to both Parliament and the public. The code of practice on openness was published in April 1995 and came into effect on 1 June, when the NHS executive published detailed guidance on its implementation. The code supports the Government's commitment in the White Paper "Open Government" of 1993, to increase public access to information about the NHS. 1028
 Mr. Malone : The hon. Gentleman completely fails to understand what is important to the NHS. It is fundamental that decisions should be taken at a local or health authority level on the future of services. That is what is meant by devolved NHS. I understand that it is the ambition of the Liberal Democrats to hand control of the NHS to local councils, and that makes a double absurdity of the suggestion that we should accumulate non-operational statistics of that kind.
 Mr. Malone : No, I have given way a lot. I intend to move to another point, which is openness in the NHS.
 Mr. Malone : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. I have turned round and noticed that he has not been with us throughout the debate, but arrived breathless in the Chamber to make his point. Although his question is not closely related to what I am talking about now, I had not intended to deal with it in the substance of my remarks, so I shall answer it right away. 1026 "But often, as someone in the heart of that process I can attest that statistics are used more as hand-grenades to be lobbed at one's opponents, than as a means of illumination. There will always be an element of that in adversarial politics."
 Mr. Malone : I am sure that my hon. Friend's thesaurus will reach him before the debate goes on much longer. He is right. In my two-plus years in office, I have not noticed that the Department of Health is entirely a statistics-free zone. In fairness to the hon. Member for Southwark and Bermondsey, he was saying something else: the statistics were unreliable. They are unreliable simply because he chooses not to accept them. 1025
 Mr. Malone : The hon. Gentleman totally fails to understand the point. We collect statistics across the
 1027
 Mr. Malone : The hon. Gentleman asks who they are. I hope that everyone who works in the public interest preparing those statistics—and that public interest goes well beyond the Government—will have heard the hon. Gentleman's derision. I shall explain in some detail how we have introduced open government in the health service, and the statistics support the evidence that we bring of its success. Richmond Park Mail, 1024
 Mr. Malone : In every election since I have been a boy in politics, the hon. Gentleman and his party have said that they have a wonderfully costed, tested manifesto commitment that will fly and bear all scrutiny. The truth is that none of them ever does, because they are based on false premises throughout. The hon. Gentleman can wave his piece of paper and send it across the Chamber. I shall have a look at it and be delighted to write to him in due course, picking it apart, as we have always been able to do with every Liberal Democrat commitment that has ever been made inside or outside the House. The House is not impressed, and the Government are certainly not impressed.
 Mr. Malone : The hon. Lady has confirmed that those councils—for political reasons and because they do not like the policies—are taking out their revenge on patients, and that she supports them.
 Mr. Malone : I can answer that simply. In some cases, it would be possible to identify the individual dentist. That would be in breach of any proper code. If the hon. Gentleman wants a system by which one can gain an insight into people's private affairs without any let or hindrance, it is up to him to explain that to his constituents or to the country as a whole. Of course, any sensible code of operation should protect people's privacy. 1029
 Mr. Gordon Prentice : Why was the Minister prepared to tell me the location of the dental practices of the highest-paid orthodontists who practise in Norfolk and Essex, but when I asked him the same question concerning dentists doing primarily non-orthodontic work, who receive £350,000 from the NHS, he told me that the disclosure of that information would be in breach of the code of practice on open government?
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Knight : I do not rule that out. Yesterday, I met Tony Woodley, whom many hon. Members will know. I was impressed by his constructive position. I understand that he is having further discussions with Ford tomorrow. We intend to have further discussions with Ford next week. We will bear the hon. Gentleman's point in mind. However, he must appreciate that it is ultimately a matter on which Ford must make a commercial decision.
 Mr. Knight : The information that we have from Ford is that those figures are incorrect. Ford says that Halewood is more expensive than Valencia and only marginally cheaper than Germany. If transport costs are considered, as has been said, Halewood is not cheaper. According to Ford, measured by man hours per car, Halewood is 10 to 20 per cent. more expensive than Ford's continental plants. We must address that, not brush it aside. 939
 Mr. Knight : This must be the last time, because the debate must finish at 11 am.
 The Minister for Industry (Mr. Greg Knight) : I place on record my appreciation of the presence of my hon. Friend the Member for Hornchurch (Mr. Squire), the sponsor Minister for Merseyside. I also appreciated the restrained and constructive way in which the hon. Member for Knowsley, South (Mr. O'Hara) opened the debate. Clearly, he is concerned about the matter, as I am. He wants to ensure that there is a satisfactory outcome, as do other hon. Members, including my hon. Friend the Member for Crosby (Sir M. Thornton). 938
 The Minister for Industry (Mr. Greg Knight)   indicated dissent.
 Mr. Knight : My hon. Friend makes a good point. Some hon. Members have said that they have evidence that disputes Ford's figures. If that evidence is available, I would like to see it. I shall consider it. To date, such evidence has not been supplied to me.
 Sir Hector Monro : Will my right hon. and learned Friend give some idea of capital expenditure on the health service in Scotland during the past five years? Will he reaffirm our commitment to spend more on the health service year on year? Does he not find it astounding that the Labour party cannot give the same assurance?
 Sir Hector Monro : Were my right hon. Friend to allow local authorities to spend more money without there being an increase in income tax, surely he would have to scrap the business rate and increase other taxation or levy a tartan tax. Does he agree that the Labour party's proposals would inevitably lead to an increase in taxation in Scotland?
 Mr. Duncan Smith : Does my right hon. Friend agree that it is ironic that the parties that claim to want to reduce unemployment want at the same time to impose a new tax on the Scots? Labour also talks about running headlong into Europe, but when it shares out the oil as a common
 1005
 Mr. Ian Bruce : Will my right hon. Friend suggest to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that a good wheeze to raise more taxes would be to say that we shall not put up income tax for anybody in the United Kingdom Parliament, but take an extra 3p on income tax in a Scottish Parliament? Would that not be one way for the Labour party to bamboozle the people of Scotland, to get votes up there without telling people that they are about to get a 3p increase on their income tax?
1.  Mr. Davidson : To ask the Secretary of State for Scotland when he intends to meet Glasgow city council to discuss the allocation of public funds to the city. [12880]
 Mr. Davidson : Are the Minister and his colleagues aware of the widespread view in Glasgow that the Government are deliberately discriminating against the city, not only in terms of the money given to local authorities but in terms of money for the health board, the development agency, Scottish Homes and other organisations? Will he agree next week to give Glasgow the resources that it needs?
 Mr. Jacques Arnold : Who ran those?
 Mr. Jacques Arnold : Will the hon. Lady confirm that Kent received an increase in its grant and its SSA? Would a theoretical Labour Government increase the grant to Kent and allow it to spend more—yes or no?
 Mr. Jacques Arnold   rose
 Mr. Arnold : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. The hon. Gentleman is making inaccurate claims about what I have said. Should he not give way to allow me to correct those claims?
 Mr. Jacques Arnold   rose
 Mr. Jacques Arnold  (Gravesham) : What does that cost?
 Mr. Jacques Arnold : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Couchman : I shall not take long, because my hon. Friend has much to say. That interesting document, of which we have copies, also makes it clear that the current state of Kent's roads maintenance is due to the present regime's neglect. The council wants to spend money on other things, such as twinning with Hungary or trips for the councillor who represents Dover.
 Mr. Couchman : I believe that my hon. Friend has done some research into what other counties propose for the forthcoming year. Can he name another county that has proposed such deep cuts as Kent is proposing?
 Mr. James Couchman  (Gillingham) : I am listening carefully to what my hon. Friend says. Does he agree that the Liberal and Labour regime's adoption at county hall last autumn of the old highwayman's call to stand and deliver was most appropriate? Does he further agree that the county council was dishonest to pursue a campaign demanding an outrageous 10 per cent. increase in grant while knowing that it would receive only an inflation-rate
 942
 Mr. Wallace : The Secretary of State has committed himself to £860,000 of expenditure to advertise nursery vouchers. Given the number of parents at whom it will be directed in Scotland, as compared to England, how does he explain—especially in the run-up to an election—why it costs so much more pro rata to run the campaign in Scotland? What answer will he give to the parents who see the £1,100 voucher waved before their eyes but who will find no outlet at which to cash it?
 Mr. Wallace : It has not always been like that. The SSAs are lower today than they were at the time of the 1992 general election. While I believe that there is a good deal of agreement on the fact that money is not the whole answer, I do not believe that the hon. Gentleman honestly believes that things were so much better in the 1950s than they are today. In the 1950s, many children who were branded as failures after failing the 11-plus were denied achievements that would have been possible if they were being educated now. The number of people proceeding to further and higher education was much lower then than it is today We have moved forward immeasurably in the past 40 years, but that also costs money.
 Mr. Wallace : The problem with the Minister reading his prepared speech is that he fails to take account of the fact that I quoted from a recent report of the inspectorate that praised the quality of Scottish schools and acknowledged it. We must build on that quality and not destroy it through spending cuts.
 Mr. Wallace : All pupils can benefit. I would hate to say that some children should be deprived of nursery education, but I take the hon. Gentleman's point—such provision is particularly important in areas of deprivation. "In the medium term, we would seek to extend that provision to every four-year-old, and in the longer term to three-year-olds."—[ Official Report, Scottish Grand Committee, 1102
 Mr. Wallace : I have indeed asked her that same question. Even if there is provision, there is no choice, and we are told that choice is the key. Many parts of Scotland will not have provision. We still have not received an answer to our question: the Minister cannot answer it by asking another question. "If the monies the Scottish Office intend to devote to the voucher scheme were allocated to local authorities instead—with an obligation to deploy them in the pre-five sector in conjunction with the other partners—a planned expansion which took account of the wishes of parents could more readily and fairly be achieved." "The picture is one of schools which are performing effectively overall. Much that we report is of high quality and justifies a continuing pride in the Scottish education system". 1103 1104
 Mr. James Wallace  (Orkney and Shetland) : I do not know whether it can be described as common ground, but, at some time or another in recent months, all the parties have suggested that education is their priority. This has been a useful debate to measure the degree of commitment of the respective parties, with the obvious exception of the Scottish National party, none of whose members has been present for any of the debate. 1101
 Mr. James Wallace  (Orkney and Shetland) : I shall be interested in the hon. Gentleman's answer to my question, as he is an educationist. Earlier today, I was discussing a similar matter with an educationist, who drew my attention to a table showing that the United Kingdom was about three quarters of the way down the list in mathematics and science, yet we were virtually at the top in respect of computer provision per child. I agree with the hon. Gentleman that more computers should be provided. Perhaps he can explain the reason for that imbalance.
 Mr. Joe Benton  (Bootle) : Much of what I wanted to say has already been said, so I will confine my remarks on behalf of the people of Bootle and the Ford workers to supporting the comments of my hon. Friend the Member for Knowsley, South (Mr. O'Hara). I am glad to have the opportunity to do so. We are talking about the loss of 1,300 jobs in Merseyside—a loss that we can ill afford. My constituency will share that loss. 934
 Mr. John Evans  (St. Helens, North) : My hon. Friend touches on the important issue of the wider spread of jobs in Merseyside. Is he aware that much of the glass installed in Escorts is produced at the Triplex factory in St. Helens, which has also struggled over the past few years? The potential loss of that valuable order could have a major impact on the employment prospects at Triplex in St, Helens.
 Mr. Home Robertson : Does the Minister realise that the Secretary of State's interference in this affair could add £28 million to the project's cost and cause impossible technical problems? In short, he could scupper—he could sabotage—the whole interconnector project. Given the great importance to the economies of Scotland and Northern Ireland of establishing an interconnector between the electricity systems on each side of the Irish sea, will he stop playing local politics with this important issue and uphold the outcome of the public inquiries on each side of the Irish sea?
4.  Mr. Home Robertson : To ask the Secretary of State for Scotland if he will make a statement on his discussions with Scottish Power about the electricity interconnector with Northern Ireland. [12884]
10.  Mr. John Marshall : To ask the Secretary of State for Scotland if he will make a statement about the level of unemployment in Scotland. [12890]
 Mr. Marshall : I thank my right hon. Friend for that answer, and for the fact that unemployment in Scotland has fallen by 71,200 since December 1992. [HON. MEMBERS: "Fiddled figures."] Does he agree that the rate of unemployment, at 7.4 per cent., is lower than that in Germany, France, Italy and Spain— [Interruption.]
 Mr. John Marshall  (Hendon, South) : First, I congratulate the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Foster) on the timing of today's debate, which enables us to draw attention to the report of the chief inspector of schools, which has shown that more lessons are good, there are fewer poor teachers and head teachers and there has been a significant improvement in standards in the past 12 months.
 Mr. Marshall : No, many times over.
 Mr. Marshall : Everyone should believe in homework.
 Mr. John Marshall  (Hendon, South) : Three times as much.
 Mr. Marshall : I have only a few minutes, so I am not giving way. 1092 1093
 Mr. John Marshall : It is remarkably generous of the hon. Gentleman to give way, bearing in mind that he has been talking about the need to spend more money. Will he explain why Liberal councils spend much less than Conservative councils on education?
 Mr. John Marshall  (Hendon, South) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. John Maxton  (Glasgow, Cathcart) : I have to confess that I listened to such mathematics under the previous Labour Government as well as under this one. If the number of school pupils declines in a school,
 1077
 Mr. Maxton : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that such provision is more important in the poorest and most deprived areas, where the need is greatest? Some of us were brought up on the great book of Peter Townsend, "Born to Fail", which was so true. Such provision is necessary for children from deprived areas, rather than those from the leafy suburbs of the constituency of the hon. Member for Eastwood (Mr. Stewart).
 Mr. Maxton : I understand that the Minister is talking about the Scottish system, but the Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment made similar points about the English system, and the hon. Member for Hendon, South (Mr. Marshall) spent the whole of his time talking about declining standards in schools. Will the Under-Secretary of State for Scotland perhaps explain that dichotomy?
 Mr. Maxton : Why is it that any improvements in education in Scotland are down to this Government even though education in Scotland is run almost entirely by Labour-controlled authorities? When any blame comes to be apportioned, it rests on those authorities. Will the hon. Gentleman be a little more even-handed?
 Mr. John Maxton  (Glasgow, Cathcart) : The hon. Member for Eastwood (Mr. Stewart) sat down without any real ending to his speech, so I was taken slightly by surprise. I do not intend to follow his arguments, except to say that I know his constituency and in my view it was relatively easy to introduce the nursery voucher scheme there. In other parts of Scotland, particularly rural areas, people will be wandering round with a voucher in hand, but no nursery to spend it in. That will not give four-year-olds the necessary nursery provision. Money must be spent in specific areas, to ensure that nursery schools are available.
 Mr. Maxton : As I tried to say this afternoon during Scottish questions, the local elected councillors are not alone in saying that there is a crisis in education in Scotland—they are joined by the director of education, his deputy and the head teachers. Everyone involved in running education in Glasgow is telling us that there is insufficient money. The Minister may be calling them all
 1089
 Mr. Maxton : I also fail to understand that. A recent "Newsnight" programme covered education in Minnesota.
 1090 1091
 Mr. Maxton : Is the Secretary of State aware that we are told not only by elected councillors in Glasgow but by every official from the chief executive to the director of finance, right down across the whole board of the council's chief officials, that Glasgow is facing the greatest crisis in its existence? Why does he keep pretending that there is no crisis? Is he accusing them of telling lies? Whom should the people of Scotland and Glasgow believe—him or the officials?
 Mr. McAllion : Does the Minister recall that there was no greater supporter of the legislation to impose the poll tax on Scotland and the rest of Britain than the current
 1000
 Mr. McAllion : My hon. Friend directs my attention and that of other hon. Members present to today's reality. I understand that, when the Secretary of State for Scotland was confronted by demonstrators outside the Scottish Grand Committee meeting in Selkirk on Monday, he said that there were no cuts in local government services. He was treated with the contempt that that sentence deserves by the demonstrators in Selkirk, and, indeed, by the vast majority of Scottish people. Those who depend on hot school dinners are the poor. Those with means have an alternative. The poor will suffer if hot school dinners are cut by councils across Scotland, which is what is happening. [Laughter.] 968
 Mr. John McAllion  (Dundee, East) : I begin by saying something about the title of the debate. I have chosen to debate Scottish poverty simply because I am a Scot and I represent a Scottish constituency. I am only too well aware that poverty has no respect for national origins; nor does one nationality inflict it on another. Oxford Review of Economic Policy 965 966
 Mr. McAllion : My hon. Friend makes a very effective point. The right hon. Gentleman who made that insulting
 967
 Mr. McFall : Why is there no commitment to reducing youth unemployment? The Secretary of State is aware that each of the 50,000 unemployed under-25s costs the taxpayer almost £8,000 a year. Would it not be better for Scotland's economic and employment future to have policies like the Labour party's, to get a quarter of a million young people in the entire country off the dole? After the Government's 18 years of neglect, is not the true message that Tory policies have left 50,000 young people with no jobs, no hope and no future? That can be remedied only by the election of a Labour Government.
 Sir John Stanley : Is my hon. Friend aware that a letter that I have received from my right hon. Friend the Minister for Local Government, Housing and Urban Regeneration shows that the Government's local government settlement provides for
 "a £50 million or 4.2 per cent. increase in provision for the fire service"?
 Sir John Stanley  (Tonbridge and Malling) : My hon. Friend rightly referred to the direct connection between the maintenance of good-quality services in Kent and the Conservatives' winning back control of the county council. Only yesterday, I received a copy of a letter from the chairman of the governors of the outstanding Judd grammar school in my constituency—one of many outstanding grammar schools in our county—to those who style themselves the "co-chairpersons" of the education committee.
 The Minister for Railways and Roads (Mr. John Watts) : I congratulate my right hon. Friend the Member for Northavon (Sir J. Cope) on his diligence and persistence in pursuing the cause of his constituents and bringing these matters before the House today. 977 978 979 980
 Mr. Jonathan Aitken  (South Thanet) : I congratulate my hon. Friend on his splendid recitation of the high economic crimes and misdemeanours that the Lib-Lab county council leadership have inflicted on the people of Kent.
 Mr. Brazier : My hon. Friend is making his points about a matter on which we all feel strongly with characteristic understatement. Will he emphasise the extraordinary divide between Labour and Liberal politicians at local level, and the Opposition Front Bench? We have heard from the shadow Chancellor that no extra money from the centre will be provided in the form of revenue support grant. Indeed, if the Labour party phases out the area cost adjustment, as it proposes to do, Kent will have £10 million or £15 million a year less. Is there not a certain discrepancy here?
 Mr. Julian Brazier  (Canterbury) : Does my hon. Friend recall that, just two years ago, we had the spectacle of £4.5 million being taken out of the schools budget when some schools, such as my children's primary school in Kent, were short of chairs? In that very same year, the council spent £3.5 million on fixtures and fittings for education administration offices.
 Mr. Brazier : Is there not something truly sad about the idea that these absurd cuts in the fire service should be proposed only a few weeks after the county council set up yet another expensive bureaucratic committee to consider public safety?
 Mr. Chisholm : Why do the Government not tell the truth about local government, instead of giving us fiction and fiddles about grant levels and spending limits, and scaremongering rubbish about Labour's plans for the business rate? Why, for example, do they, unlike anybody who has studied the subject, keep pretending that £60 million will be saved next year, compared with this year, through local government reorganisation, and then keep adding that imaginary money to grant levels to come up with an imaginary increase for next year? Does the Secretary of State not understand that this is the worst
 1003
 Sir Malcolm Thornton : My hon. Friend knows that there have been all-party discussions on this. With the hon. Member for Knowsley, South (Mr. O'Hara), we have been able to meet Ford and the unions. Will my hon.
 940
 Sir Malcolm Thornton : Will the Minister give way?
 Sir Malcolm Thornton  (Crosby) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Matthew Banks : Before my hon. Friend moves from the subject of waiting lists, will he confirm that the
 1022
 Mr. Banks : I just wonder whether I could ask the hon. Gentleman, in view of that visit, where the right hon. Member for Yeovil (Mr. Ashdown) is at present?
 Mr. Matthew Banks  (Southport) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Matthew Banks  (Southport) : Thank you, Madam Deputy Speaker, for calling me so early in this important debate on the national health service. Before coming to the substance of my remarks, I shall take a moment to join the hon. Member for Belfast, South (Rev. Martin Smyth) in his expression of sorrow. We were all sorry to hear of the family bereavement of the Under-Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, my hon. Friend the Member for North-East Cambridgeshire (Mr. Moss). 1033
 Mr. Banks : The hon. Member for Caithness and Sutherland drew attention to the fact that the Secretary of State is not present. In his opening remarks, the hon. Member for Southwark and Bermondsey said that this morning he had visited health service premises in his constituency with his right hon. Friend the Member for Yeovil.
 Mr. Banks : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for clarifying that point. It is even more disappointing that his
 1034
 Mr. Banks : With the greatest respect to the hon. Member for Cheltenham (Mr. Jones), he stayed for about 20 minutes and did not even hear the end of the opening speech by his hon. Friend the Member for Southwark and Bermondsey. [Interruption.] 1035 "Like the Secretary of Stale. I welcome a debate on the NHS. I welcome an opportunity to pay tribute to the service, to praise those who work in it and to say how good I believe it is. It serves hon. Members and our constituents extraordinarily well. Of course, things go wrong and sometimes there are sad mistakes and tragedies."—[ Official Report,
 Mr. Banks : What about choice?
 Mr. Banks : I have never used it.
 Mr. Matthew Banks : Tell us where Paddy is.
 Mr. Matthew Banks : Will the hon. Lady give way on that point?
 Mr. Banks : I am afraid that I cannot agree with the hon. Gentleman on that, for two reasons. In fact, I am sure that there are others, but I shall mention two. 1037
 Mr. Banks : I thank the hon. Gentleman for telling us what is happening in Northern Ireland. I know that he will forgive me if I plead genuine ignorance of the specific case that he mentioned. I am sorry that my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State for Northern Ireland cannot be with us, for the reasons that the hon. Gentleman mentioned earlier. Perhaps we will pick up on that matter later in the debate. 1038
 Mr. Banks : I have listened with care to what the hon. Gentleman has said. What I was talking about was choice and I am not going to debate what the noble Baroness did or did not do. I can tell the House my experiences only, and they have been excellent in relation to the NHS.
 Mr. Banks : I am grateful to my hon. Friend, who is such an advocate of Ayr; despite what his political opponents say in Scotland, I believe that he will hold his seat. 1039
 Mr. Connarty : Is the Minister aware that Central Scotland Healthcare NHS trust, which is responsible for care in the community in Forth Valley, is proposing to do away with its care managers and to sack 28 charge nurse sisters and replace them with 18 nurse managers, who will be responsible for double the number of patients? Sisters will no longer be responsible for contact with patients in the hospitals in the Secretary of State's constituency and other constituencies in central Scotland, including mine. Will the Minister take a stand and keep the sisters in the wards? Matrons have been done away with, and now the same is to happen to sisters. Will he prevent that?
 Mr. Forsyth : I do not know whether the hon. Gentleman has noticed, but youth unemployment has been falling. He asks why we have no proposals, but we have a proposal—we have got skills vouchers, worth
 1007
 Mr. Forsyth : My hon. Friend may have stumbled on something. Perhaps it is the fact that Members of Parliament would not have to pay the tartan tax that makes some of them so keen on voting for it, or at least having an opportunity to do so. I agree that the effects of putting us back to the bad old days, when Labour councils discriminated against Scottish business through the business rate, would be disastrous for jobs and for those people who are struggling to run small shops and corner shops and who are already facing difficulties because of competition because of changes in shopping patterns.
 Mr. Forsyth : They should do as I do, which is not believe everything they read in the newspapers.
 Mr. Forsyth : I agree with my hon. Friend. The only jobs that a Labour Government would create in Scotland would be jobs for the boys in their Parliament on Calton hill. [HON. MEMBERS: "And the girls."] That is right, because Labour would impose a gender balance quota on that Parliament. We still have to hear from the shadow Chancellor, the right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East (Mr. Brown), where the money will come from to pay for that Parliament—more than £70 million in the first year. If there is to be no increase in the overall Budget, the money will presumably come out of the health service or local government.
 Mr. Forsyth : If we are talking about public expenditure and the constituencies were funded on the same basis as those of my hon. Friends, there would be a reduction. The hon. Gentleman surely recognises the transformation that has been brought about in Glasgow as a result of a partnership between the Government and local authorities, and I pay tribute to all concerned. I agree that there are areas in Glasgow—and elsewhere in Scotland—where unemployment is far too high. There are a number of proposals to achieve a reduction in unemployment and to encourage investment in Glasgow. I will happily work with anyone from any party who wishes to achieve that purpose.
 Mr. Forsyth : The hon. Gentleman should know that there has been some marvellous development work in Glasgow, for example, where we have had schemes in which the long-term unemployed have been encouraged to carry out work that is useful to the community, and have received payment for doing so. These projects have been built on and developed.
 Mr. Forsyth : Perhaps I could add to the discomfort of the hon. Member for Cumbernauld and Kilsyth by paying a tribute to him as well. He is an excellent Member of the House. Both he and my hon. Friend the Member for Ayr (Mr. Gallie) know that, where lines of route have been proposed for the roads, if there are a sufficient number of objections, a public local inquiry has to be held to resolve them. 1006
 Mr. Forsyth : If this years settlement is the worst in years—which it certainly is not—why can the hon. Gentleman not pledge an extra cent on top of it? If it is so bad, what has happened to the Labour party? What exactly would a Labour Government be for? If the hon. Gentleman says that ours is a poor settlement for Labour councils, why can he not add a single penny? The truth is that his masters in Islington know that it is a good deal for local government in Scotland.
 Mr. Forsyth : I am sure that the hon. Gentleman will fight strongly for his constituents. I understand that such a major project will cause concern and difficulties wherever it is sited. There were two possible lines of route, as the hon. Gentleman knows. I imagine that the relief in one area will be matched by disappointment in another. We had to take a decision in the national interest of Scotland. Of course I shall be happy to meet the hon. Gentleman to discuss any particular concerns of his.
 Mr. Forsyth : The hon. Lady is normally very courteous. She has written asking for a meeting and my hon. Friend the Minister for Industry and Local Government has agreed to see her next Wednesday. She really does have to tell the whole story and not half the story. It is certainly true that Argyll and Bute would like to increase its expenditure substantially, although it has had extra cash. As she knows, I have some sympathy with her about the special islands needs allowance settlement. The position of COSLA is that Argyll is not justified in having it. Given the number of islands in Argyll, I agree with her that, on the face of it, that seems rather extraordinary. I am very happy for that to be considered in the distribution committee and agreed by COSLA. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Forsyth : If the hon. Gentleman does not believe me, he should believe the right hon. Member for Dunfermline, East (Mr. Brown), who I believe is the shadow Chancellor. He made it absolutely clear that a Labour Government would not give a cent more to the public expenditure plans that we have provided. If the hon. Gentleman feels that Glasgow is not getting its share of the pot, he should have a word with the Labour chairman of COSLA and leader of Edinburgh council, Mr. Keith Geddes, who has indicated that the distribution formula is fair and correct.  [Interruption.] 1002
 Mr. Forsyth : The hon. Gentleman appeared to be saying that from a sedentary position. The Labour party should get its act together; men it might be in a position to give a coherent view on what it would like to happen.
 Mr. Forsyth : I agree with my hon. Friend. I do not know whether he noticed, but he was being barracked throughout his question by Opposition Members who, on this occasion, seem to have seated themselves as far away from the Opposition Front Bench as they can. I do not know whether that is symbolic. Opposition Members were shouting. "Fiddled figures." When unemployment in Scotland was increasing, Opposition Members were happy to quote the figures time after time, and they accepted them; but, now that we have a success story with falling unemployment, they do not want to acknowledge it. That is the kind of commitment that Labour has to Scotland—a commitment to decline, which we in government have reversed.
 Mr. Michael Forsyth : Unemployment in Scotland has fallen to 7.4 per cent. and has fallen by 10,000 in the past two months.
 Mr. Forsyth : The hon. Gentleman is confused. The Pieda report to which he refers is about jobs. He ought to know that we have commissioned an independent study by Coopers and Lybrand and Pieda which will set out where the extra money is going in local government. I think that he will be surprised when he sees the result.
 Mr. Michael Forsyth : I met COSLA on 17 January and I am looking forward to meeting it again on 4 July.
 Mr. Forsyth : The hon. Gentleman calls himself a Liberal; for a Liberal to stand up in the Chamber and denounce a scheme that will allow parents to choose the provision for their children says a great deal about what has happened to the Liberal party in Scotland. As for the success of the scheme, why does not the hon. Gentleman take up the invitation issued by my hon. Friend the Member for Eastwood (Mr. Stewart), who asked him to come and see the success of the pilot scheme? Ninety-seven per cent. of parents have taken up the vouchers, and more places are being provided by the private sector, but where is the biggest increase in the number of nursery places being provided as a result of the voucher system? In local government, which is able to take advantage of the extra resources that we are making available for children.
 Mr. Forsyth : I agree with my hon. Friend, because he is quite right. Local government expenditure in Scotland, for example, is almost £2 billion over and above the per head proportion in England. On health, the extra is £1 billion. From Scotland's point of view, having a Secretary of State in Cabinet and Members of Parliament from Scottish constituencies—who have the same status and role as hon. Members from other constituencies—undoubtedly helps us to secure a good deal for Scotland, which Labour would squander for the sake of party political advantage.
 Mr. Forsyth : There have been no cuts in Glasgow. Glasgow has had an increase in its spending. The hon. Gentleman talks about cutting back on home helps. Why does he not read the Glasgow  Evening Times
 Mr. Forsyth : I am not sure whether my hon. Friend is aware that some people in England will have to pay the tartan tax—people on the payrolls of Scottish companies. That is another reason why the tartan tax would be damaging to Scotland's interests.
 Mr. Forsyth : The hon. Gentleman lives in a dream world of his own. I set out the position clearly on the extraordinary paste-up job he did on the answers given by my right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary. I clearly pointed out that Scotland would have a substantial £6.1 billion deficit. The hon. Gentleman goes around Scotland promising everything to everyone, but has no means by which to deliver his promises. With his slogan,
 999
 Mr. Forsyth : I entirely agree with my right hon. Friend. The Labour party's agenda is perfectly clear: it is to allow councils to put up the business rate. On the basis of the limited concession announced by the hon. Member for Hamilton (Mr. Robertson), that would have meant the business rate in Glasgow going up by 20 per cent. last year, which would have destroyed jobs and businesses there.
 Mr. Forsyth : If I am Scotland's man in the Cabinet, the hon. Gentleman is Labour's man in Libya. Perhaps if he spent a little more time in Glasgow and a little less time elsewhere, he would know what was happening. 997
 The Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Michael Forsyth) : The public expenditure settlement is a good deal for Scotland. We have given priority to education, law and order, health and jobs.
 The Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Michael Forsyth) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. At Scottish questions this afternoon, the hon. Member for Glasgow, Hillhead (Mr. Galloway) asked me a question and in my answer I said that the hon. Gentleman had been to Libya and referred to him as Labour's man in Libya. The hon. Gentleman has written to me stating that he has never been to Libya. I withdraw my remarks and apologise to the hon. Gentleman for any embarrassment that I may have caused him.
 Mr. Michael J. Martin : It is all very well to attack Glasgow, but it spends money on providing services such
 998
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The hon. Member for Workington (Mr. Campbell-Savours) is technically in
 955
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The Chair makes no comment on the contents of speeches—although this morning I have already had to stress that it is the occupant of the Chair who must be addressed. Meanwhile, I shall make my judgment as the speech progresses.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I hope that this is a point of order for the Chair.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : Understandably, many hon. Members wish to take part in the debate. May I therefore make an appeal for short speeches?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Hon. Members know that it is entirely up to the hon. Member who has the Floor to decide to whom he does, or does not, give way. I call the hon. Member for Dartford (Mr. Dunn), and ask him to address the Chair.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The hon. Gentleman is correct about the custom. The copious use of notes, however, is unfortunately allowed.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : We shall see how we go. References to facts are entirely in order, but reading a speech would be wrong.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : Order. This intervention is becoming a speech.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I should be grateful if the hon. Gentleman would address the Chair rather than the Doors at the end of the Chamber.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : Order. I ask hon. Members to carry out their negotiations elsewhere.
 Mr. Watson : Are not the past 18 years important—not the past three years of legislation—during which the Government have attacked the unemployed, the homeless, local authorities and trade unions in Scotland? Is it not a matter of having a general election within weeks rather than months, so that a Labour Government can begin to repeal some of that legislation and introduce a Scotland Bill so that, for the first time in hundreds of years, the people of Scotland can have a say in their destiny? Finally, is it not the case that the one thing that the Government have passed, on which everyone will agree, is their sell-by date?
 Mr. Nick Harvey  (North Devon) : There are no Conservative councils.
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : I am rather perplexed about the Liberal Democrats' claims about extra resources for education. They talk of crumbling schools, the need for more books and the desirability of smaller class sizes, but a total of more than £4 billion would have to be spent to deal with the problems, and I cannot equate that with the imposition of just 1p on the basic rate of income tax. Will the hon. Gentleman please tell us where the money will come from?
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : I have an excellent 20-minute speech, and a less good six-minute speech However, beggars cannot be choosers, and not even a penny on income tax will buy me the extra time that I need to make all my points. 1100 "I hope that in time we'll see the end of selection. There are already murmurings here, and I think it is only a matter of time before this leads to action."
 Mr. Nigel Evans : Where will the money come from?
 Mr. Nigel Evans   rose
 Mr. Nigel Forman  (Carshalton and Wallington) : I agree with much of what the hon. Gentleman says about the desirability of extra investment in our schools, particularly those catering for the younger end of the age range. Does he agree, however, that it is equally important to ensure that the money is spent to best effect? The management of local education authorities, and the way in which they handle such matters as admissions policy, are important in that context.
 Mr. Norman Hogg : When the Secretary of State has calmed down and recovered his equilibrium, will he tell the House whether he is satisfied with the decision of his Minister of State to spend £150 million driving a motorway through the urban area of my constituency? Is he aware that the decision has been met with widespread disapproval in Cumbernauld and Kilsyth? In those circumstances, and having regard to the fact that not a single elected member of North Lanarkshire council or the previous authorities—Strathclyde regional council and Cumbernauld and Kilsyth district council—favoured that option, will he call a public inquiry?
 Mr. Peter Atkinson  (Hexham) : I understand the problems that Northumberland faces because of its sparsity, but does the right hon. Gentleman accept that, nevertheless, the county has the highest SSA, and the highest capping level, per head of population of any shire county? It gets the largest grant per head of population of any shire county, too.
 Mr. Peter Kilfoyle  (Liverpool, Walton) : My hon. Friend mentioned over-capacity. Did he hear the
 924
 Mr. Luff : Does my right hon. Friend understand that it is relatively easy for me to justify that good deal for Scotland to my constituents in Worcestershire so long as the Parliament of the United Kingdom retains control over that expenditure? Does he understand that it would be a great deal more difficult for me to pursue that justification with the creation of a Scottish Parliament that controlled expenditure with their own tax-raising powers, particularly if Scottish Members were still able to come here to vote on English expenditure?
6.  Mr. Luff : To ask the Secretary of State for Scotland what representations he has received about the public expenditure settlement for his Department for the financial year 1997–98; and if he will make a statement [12886]
 Mr. Peter Thurnham  (Bolton, North-East) : Does the hon. Gentleman realise that I have received figures from the co-chairperson of the social services committee in Kent, showing that extra statutory duties imposed on Kent—but not properly funded—by the Government amount to more than £4 million? That figure takes into account the extra costs incurred because of a 2.5 per cent. increase in the number of people aged over 75 and because of disabled access, asylum and criminal justice legislation, which have not been properly reflected in grant levels.
 Mr. Thurnham : The hon. Gentleman and I are adding a Cumbrian element—from the other end of the country—to this debate, and are perhaps adding a degree of realism. Does he agree that it is unfortunate when the Government prevent a local authority from innovating? Are not community care direct payments a case in which local authorities have been prevented from extending benefits to those over 65? Has not the hon. Member for Mid-Kent (Mr. Rowe) strongly advanced that case? I am sure that he would share the disappointment of Opposition Members that the Government have prevented such an excellent measure from being used by Kent council and others to provide benefits to over-65s.
 Mr. Thurnham : Although Kent's community care provision has been praised by both the county's health authorities, the Department of Health's figures show a 10 per cent. shortfall in community care funding for Kent. Should we not be debating those facts, rather than making political points as Conservative Members have done?
 Mr. Gallie : Will my right hon. and learned Friend assure the House that Borders is not the only region where increases have taken place? In south Scotland—in Ayrshire—has not expenditure on health care gone through the roof? It is well above the 50 per cent. real terms increase per head over recent times—
 Mr. Gallie : Is my right hon. Friend aware that unemployment in my constituency has fallen by 35 per cent. in the past five years? Will he take on board the words of the hon. Member for Cumbernauld and Kilsyth (Mr. Hogg)—whom we all respect—and look at the money that is to be spent on the A80? Considering the opposition that is coming from north Lanarkshire, would not that money be better spent on the A70 in Ayrshire? Such a move would increase the employment prospects in my constituency and those of other Ayrshire Members.
 Mr. Gallie : Given the hon. Gentleman's comments on waiting lists, is he aware of the service offered by hospitals in Ayrshire to patients from Northern Ireland for orthopaedic surgery, aimed at reducing waiting lists in Northern Ireland, and does he feel that that strengthens the bond between Scotland and Northern Ireland?
 Mr. Gallie : A point that comes to mind from serving on Select Committees and listening to debates in the Chamber is that I repeatedly hear Opposition Members demand statistics. Is it not so that, the more statistics we gather, the more bureaucracy is required to gather them and the greater the cost imposed on the health service or any other service, yet Opposition Members complain about administrative costs? Is there not a degree of—I should not use the word "hypocrisy". I shall try to think of another—but I cannot.
 Mr. Phil Gallie  (Ayr) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Gallie   rose
 Mr. Gallie : Does my right hon. and learned Friend get the impression from the comments of the spokesmen for both the Opposition parties that they are obsessed with buildings and beds? Conservative Members are concerned about patients. We want waiting lists to drop and treatment to be improved. We want new techniques to be adopted. Is not that Conservative policy?
 Mr. Gallie : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Gallie : Surely the words of the hon. Member for Southwark and Bermondsey (Mr. Hughes) underline what my hon. Friend says. He points out the values and the excellence of the NHS. It has been demonstrated that, where someone had the choice between private and NHS, the individual plumped for the NHS. That is surely a great credit to the NHS, and surely backs my hon. Friend's argument.
 Mr. Gallie   rose
 Mr. Gallie : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Gallie : The hon. Gentleman comes from Scotland, as I do. Is it not a fact that Scotland has the greatest teaching hospitals in the world, and Scots have always taken their excellent skills worldwide? Should we not be proud of that rather than bemoaning it?
 Mr. Raymond S. Robertson : Rather than asking my right hon. Friend that question, has the hon. Gentleman asked his hon. Friend the Member for Argyll and Bute (Mrs. Michie) how the parents in her constituency, which is one of the pilot areas, are coping, because 97 per cent. of them are using vouchers?
 Mr. Robertson : The hon. Gentleman spent 30 seconds praising that quality and about 14 minutes running it down, as anyone who listened to his speech will know. 1106
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Raymond S. Robertson) : I am glad to have the opportunity to respond to the debate. In opening on behalf of the Government, my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment clearly set out the Government's position. We fully recognise the importance of education. We are committed to ensuring school education of the highest quality, and we are making resources available to achieve that. My hon. Friend the Under-Secretary set out the Government's plans and priorities for England and Wales. In summing up, it is my intention to show how that same commitment is taking effect in Scotland. 1105 "Stands Scotland where it did?"
 Mr. Robertson : I think that the hon. Gentleman knows that we are talking about different time scales. My hon. Friend the Member for Hendon, South (Mr. Marshall) was talking about a time scale of 30 years. I have been going over the past 18 years, which coincidentally coincides exactly with the Government's period in office. 1107 1108 1109
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Raymond S. Robertson) : When the hon. Gentleman intervened on my hon. Friend the Member for Eastwood (Mr. Stewart), he asked for credit to be given to Labour local authorities. Will he now give the same credit to those Labour local authorities? It is Labour local authorities that are making cuts in education. The Conservative Government have passed on more money for education for next year than last year. If the hon. Gentleman wants Labour authorities to get the credit, they must also take the stick when they make the cuts.
 Mr. Robertson : If the hon. Lady wishes to raise the matter with Lord Nolan, she is entitled so to do; but, in all kindness, I must tell her that it was obvious on Monday that the pressure is getting to her. She should take some time off, away from the House, and visit Scottish colleges and schools to find out what the real situation is. Then she should come back to the House and stop running down the great achievements of Scottish education.
 Mr. Robertson : The Scotland that the hon. Gentleman describes would not be recognised by anyone who lives or works in Scotland. In reality, Scotland is prospering and booming, and the quality of life there is second to none. It is not worth a Scotland Bill from the Labour party.
 Mr. Raymond S. Robertson : As the hon. Gentleman will know, Labour peers voted both for and against in the Divisions. He should therefore watch before he casts accusations across the Dispatch Box. He knows that we have presented a Bill in both Houses of Parliament. We have pledged to deliver on that Bill, and we shall do so.
 Mr. Robertson : I hope that the hon. Gentleman takes the same venom and passion to Scottish local authorities and encourages them, in the same way he has berated me, to collect the outstanding £750 million in uncollected poll tax and council tax.
 Mr. Robertson : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. The Opposition parties seek, each in its own way, to sell Scotland short and to sell Scotland out to the bureaucrats in Brussels. My hon. Friend will be pleased that we have succeeded in getting the Commission to look at ways of cutting the burdens placed on business by the single market legislation.
 Mr. Robertson : It is right that my hon. Friend maintains pressure on all Departments, including the Scottish Office. As we have heard, he has great style However, as he is aware, the Government have passed 44 deregulation orders resulting in savings of more than £100 million per annum. Last year alone, 228 statutory instruments were passed; 105 produced savings for business by repealing some 500 existing regulations.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Raymond S. Robertson) : There have been six pieces of Government primary Scottish legislation and 977 instruments passed in the past three years; no central record of the number of repeals is held.
 Mr. Robertson : The hon. Gentleman seems to forget that many further education colleges, including Aberdeen college, in which he and I share an interest as constituency Members, are restructuring staffing levels so that they can deliver a more efficient and effective service to students. He does Aberdeen college a great disservice by choosing to ignore the fact that, as part of the restructuring, 42 new posts have been made permanent.
 Mr. Raymond S. Robertson : None. The employment of agency staff in colleges is for individual college boards of management to determine.
 Mr. Robert Maclennan  (Caithness and Sutherland) : Is it not unlikely that, by absenting himself from the debate, the Secretary of State will promote consensus?
 Mr. Maclennan : Against the background of Highland council contemplating closure of residential care for the elderly in at least four places and a reduction of care in others, will the Minister very carefully consider the feasibility study that the Highland health board has proposed for Sutherland? Such a study might carry the implication of closing the excellent Migdale hospital, which is providing care for the elderly and psycho-geriatric cases, and post-operative and respite care. That health service provision is absolutely necessary if there is to be close co-operation between authorities in providing care for the elderly in Sutherland.
 Mr. Maclennan : I take great pride in that fact. My father was a teacher at one of those great teaching hospitals. He was president of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, which was a Commonwealth college. Of course I welcome to the United Kingdom doctors from abroad, as I understand the impulse of those who want to find their fortunes elsewhere. I hope that the hon. Gentleman will accept that I was seeking to make not a partisan point, but the point that doctors in Scotland have told me that their numbers are becoming dangerously depleted. They are worried about the effect on the service in future. It right for me to convey that anxiety to the Minister. 1050 1051 1052
 Mr. Maclennan : I agree with my hon. Friend, and I call in evidence in support of what he has said what I was told by general practitioners I recently met in Thurso
 1049
 Mr. Robert Maclennan  (Caithness and Sutherland) : I am glad to follow the hon. Member for North Antrim (Rev. Ian Paisley). In particular, I share the concerns he expressed about nurses, who are waiting with great interest and hope for the announcement from the pay review body and the Government's reaction to it.
 Mr. Wareing : I shall give way in a minute.
 Mr. Robert N. Wareing  (Liverpool, West Derby) : I too shall be brief, because I realise that so many people want to make contributions. Ford News, 929
 Mr. Wareing : I am fully in accord with that. Not only is it cheaper to lay off workers in this country: there is also the whole body of employment law in Germany.
 Mr. Wareing : No, I shall continue, because I want other hon. Members to be able to make their speeches.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. Robin Squire) : The hon. Gentleman knows that two of the larger quangos are the Further Education Funding Council and the Higher Education Funding Council. The logic of what he says is that they should be funded directly by Government. Is that really what he means?
 Mr. Squire : To a very small extent, the hon. Gentleman's point is valid, but he cannot seriously be suggesting that that accounts for a virtual 50 per cent. increase in real terms. It does not, and I urge him to recognise that the prime factor is that we have been prepared to continue to fund education. 1078
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. Robin Squire) : I beg to move, To leave out from "House" to the end of the Question, and to add instead thereof:
 "welcomes the substantial extra investment which the Government has made, and continues to make, in early years, primary and secondary education, the reforms that the Government has introduced to allow that investment to be used to maximum effect and the improvement in standards in schools which has been the result." 1075 "I do not deny … that in recent years the Government have increased expenditure on education."—[ Official Report, "Never was a penny spent more often than during a Liberal Democrat speech." 1076 "Lib-Dems just want to throw money at education."
 Mr. Squire : The hon. Gentleman must recognise that the extra millions and millions of pounds that I am describing and that go into SSAs—not just education SSAs—are being met by taxpayers. He also knows—I am happy to have a separate seminar on local government finance, but possibly on another occasion, lest I incur your wrath, Mr. Deputy Speaker—that the freedom that local authorities rightly enjoy to determine how they use that money and at what level they spend, allows them either to continue to give priority to education or, in a few cases, not to do so. 1079 * 1080
 Mr. Squire : I join the right hon. Gentleman in paying tribute to the role and work of governors throughout the UK. All hon. Members on both sides of the House would do that, but, as it happens, today, my hon. Friend the Member for Hexham (Mr. Atkinson) and I met a deputation of head teachers from the right hon. Gentleman's local education authority. I listened patiently to what they said, but in the end I had to say that I still could not understand how an above average SSA increase for next year in their LEA—from memory, it is some 4.2 per cent.—was translated into a projected 2 per cent. cut in school budgets. However, I suggested that some of the answer lay in county hall. Most right hon. and hon. Members would be pleased to receive a 4.2 per cent. increase.
 Mr. Squire : My hon. Friend raises an interesting question. For the moment, I shall base my response on the Labour party pledge, for reasons to which I have already alluded. The Labour party has made it clear that it is talking of a phasing out of the assisted places scheme. I judge that, as a result, there will be less than £5 million available in the first year of the assisted places scheme. Frankly, that will provide 100 or so primary school teachers. Compare that £5 million with an estimated cost of meeting Labour's pledge on class size—which is possibly what my hon. Friend was alluding to—of approaching £200 million. The House and the country should be aware of that discrepancy.
 Mr. Squire : My hon. Friend is spot on. We intend to continue that record during the next Parliament, when we are returned at the forthcoming election. 1081
 Mr. Robin Squire : After the hon. Lady's repeated comments, I should say that the figures that she has quoted are the result of updated estimates on four-year-olds. Not a single parent will be denied their voucher or the opportunity to use it.
 Mr. Squire : The simple answer—although I do not think that the hon. Lady will discover it for herself in the
 1084
 Mr. Robin Squire : These are well-trodden paths, but I hope that the right hon. Gentleman will allow me to put it on record that sparsity is the only element within the entire SSA system which includes what I think is called a judgmental uplift—in other words, a greater value is applied to it than the evidence alone would suggest was justified. That, in part, recognises the sort of difficulties that he is outlining.
 Mr. Roger Gale  (North Thanet) : More foreign trips.
 Mr. Gale : Is it not a fact that the lie machine at county hall has been so misrepresenting the facts that Mr. Keith Ferrin, one of our Conservative colleagues on the county council, found it necessary to write to Conservative candidates and sitting Members to ask whether they could please try to explain to the press that the situation is
 946 Kent Today
 Mr. Gale : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I have been in the House for 14 years and I have always been under the impression that it is not customary for Members to read out speeches—particularly speeches prepared for them by other people.
 Mr. Gale : Will my hon. Friend add to his list the fact that the Labour-Liberal coalition is targeting the most vulnerable people in Kent—the elderly and the disabled?
 Sir Roger Moate : It is not just that such measures are wrong, but that there is a hopeless distortion of priorities. It is extraordinary that the council proposes to close some fire stations, not on the justification that fire cover can be reduced, but simply to save about £200,000 to £300,000. The saving is less than the council is spending on conferences for its officers and leaders at county hall. It is a muddled approach to administration. Does my hon. Friend agree that it is a taste of what the country might get if a Labour Government were ever inflicted upon us?
 Sir Roger Moate : With my hon. Friend's usual delicacy, he has refrained from commenting on the point made earlier about one county councillor—I have forgotten his name—who has made a large number of trips abroad. I cannot remember the precise number—[HON. MEMBERS: "Fourteen."] I cannot believe that one member could make 14 trips in such a short time, but is it not likely that even a small part of the expenditure on those trips—that, presumably, is just the tip of the iceberg—would keep all our fire stations open?
 Sir Roger Moate : Further to that point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Although the hon. Gentleman claims to be using notes for clinical accuracy, he has in effect just admitted that he is reading his closely typed speech. Surely that is contrary to the rules of order?
 Sir Roger Moate  (Faversham) : In my constituency, we are faced with the prospect of the closure of fire stations, dramatic cuts in library services, cuts in desperately important youth services and a dramatic cut in adult education. Severe pain is being inflicted on the people who need those services, whereas administration is not being cut. The county council has lost control of administration of the police and further education colleges, and secondary schools administration has been reduced by 50 per cent. Why should my constituents be faced with cuts when no comparable effort has been made by the county council to cut bureaucracy and administration?
 Sir Roger Moate  (Faversham) : The hon. Gentleman talks a lot about statistics, but one important statistic is missing from the Liberal Democrats' presentation. How much money are they committed to spending? We have been listening carefully. They have invented a hypothecated tax on tobacco to pay for all the extra spending, but they did not put a figure on it. Can the hon. Gentleman give us a precise figure for exactly how much the Liberal party is pledging itself to raise in new taxation for health spending in the first year, and in the second year?
 Mr. Beggs : Can the Minister confirm that Scottish Power took account of all representations—including those made by the hon. Member for Carrick, Cumnock and Doon Valley (Mr. Foulkes)—and that the re-routing
 994
 Mr. Hughes : I wanted to endorse the sentiments expressed by the right hon. Member for Northavon (Sir J. Cope) about noise levels. I represent an area on the Welsh side of the crossing that was formerly very quiet and secluded. The way of life has changed quite a lot since the opening of the new bridge. Apparently, the prevailing wind is from the west and residents in the Rogiet and Caldicot areas get the worst of all worlds, so to speak.
 Mr. Roy Hughes  (Newport, East)   rose
 Mr. Hughes : I find the Secretary of State's absence surprising. I am glad that the Minister of State and the Under-Secretary of State are present, but, if the Secretary of State thinks the NHS as important as he claims, he should be here. This may well be the last debate on the NHS before the general election, which is another reason why the person in charge—in a system that I must say is very undemocratic: no other elected person can be in charge even locally—ought to be present. 1016 "Clearly and unambiguously committed"— "to high quality, universal, tax-funded healthcare … With both major parties so firm in their backing of the NHS, surely we can just relax in the security of knowing that it will be all right. No, we cannot. In fact there is now a real risk that over the next five years the NHS will cease to be a universal, comprehensive, free service, without any real debate, because neither party"— "is prepared to promise anything like the rate of growth in spending seen throughout the life of the NHS." "This year is the toughest year for the Health Service in the last decade. There's always been a funding problem in healthcare because demand exceeds supply of resources, but in the current year that's a particularly acute problem. We're finding that hospitals all around the country, health authorities and GPs, are finding it very hard to make ends meet. In that sense the wheel has come full circle because a decade ago Mrs. Thatcher, when she was the Prime Minister, was forced to set up a review of the Health Service because of the funding problems. That review has led to increased efficiency and greater responsiveness but it's not really tackled the long-term underfunding of the NHS and it's that problem that the NHS continues to grapple with."
 Mr. Hughes : I understand them, and I am happy to answer the question. 1015 [Interruption.] "would welcome greater cross-party consensus on the major issues in the NHS."
 Mr. Hughes : Not for the moment: I want to proceed. 1017
 Mr. Hughes : Yes, but this is the last intervention.
 Mr. Hughes : I give way to the hon. Member for Belfast, South (Rev. Martin Smyth).
 Mr. Hughes : I am answering his question. 1014
 Mr. Hughes : I may give way once more, but then I want to make progress.
 Mr. Hughes : Not only do I accept the hon. Gentleman's point, but I share his view that the budget for the national health service in Northern Ireland would be better allocated and run by people there following a democratic debate in Northern Ireland rather than in the House. One of the frustrations of Parliament is that we have hardly any time to debate public welfare issues for Northern Ireland—far less time than for Scotland and Wales. The people of Northern Ireland rightfully agree.
 Mr. Hughes : I have already said no. This is a half-day debate, and I want to give colleagues a chance to speak. 1019 1020
 Mr. Hughes : I do not know the answer to that question, but I assume that my right hon. Friend will be here shortly and certainly he has spent a lot of time in recent days on health service matters. 1018
 Mr. Simon Hughes : None of those things is boring or unimportant. The Minister knows that I share his view in that respect. Does he accept that, according to the evidence that he is receiving, waiting times are increasing again?
 Mr. Hughes : Who are they?
 Mr. Simon Hughes : We could spend the entire debate discussing which issues ought to be non-political. No one has ever argued that the health service should not be political. What is the Minister's objection to removing the accumulation and presentation of statistics on the health service from under the hand of Government, so that they would be believed—as they are not at the moment?
 Mr. Simon Hughes : That is the most extraordinary allegation, given that we obtained the figures—and we have costed them all—from answers that we were wise enough to get from the Government only last week. In the past 10 days, we have obtained Government figures in respect of eye tests, dental checks and closing the national insurance loophole. They are all costed and our commitment remains the same—£550 million a year in addition to keeping up with real NHS inflation.
 Mr. Simon Hughes : Is it the fault of the statisticians or of the Government that, when a parliamentary colleague asks how many hospitals have been closed since 1979, the answer comes back from the Minister that those figures are not held centrally?
 Mr. Simon Hughes : The Minister's response to our suggestion was to ask why we should not use the Audit Commission. Many hon. Members would rather have the Audit Commission perform independent assessment of statistics than the Government. If they have some problem with using the King's Fund for this job and the Minister were offering that, it would be an acceptable middle way that the hon. Gentleman might encourage the Government to adopt.
 Mr. Simon Hughes : Can the hon. Gentleman confirm that there is now evidence—I think that we have all seen it—from the Royal National Institute for the Blind which confirms that there has been a deterioration in the sight of some of those who are now not being tested? It is not a
 1032
 Mr. Simon Hughes : I am trying to establish what areas of agreement there are between us. Does the hon. Gentleman accept that it would not be a bad thing—I am trying not to trap him into saying anything that might push him too far—if the question of statistics, to which nurses" pay is relevant, were dealt with by an independent body? The Minister suggested the Audit Commission; I have suggested the King's Fund. All the matters pertaining to the hon. Gentleman's constituents—the number of beds,
 1036
 Mr. Hughes : The hon. Gentleman is almost right. My right hon. Friend and I had a visit from nurses: the meeting took place in this building, and not in NHS premises.
 Mr. Simon Hughes : One never knows.
 Mr. Hughes : The NHS is bigger than all of us. In previous speeches I have paid tribute to the Tory successes and progress in the NHS. I am happy to do so again—I have no problem with that. The NHS is what it is today owing to the efforts of three parties. A member of one of those parties devised and proposed it during the
 1013
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark and Bermondsey) : I beg to move,
 That this House believes that, of the many improvements the NHS needs, immediate priorities should include the reinstatement of free dental and eye checks, a freeze on all finance-driven bed, hospital and service closures which represent a reduction of service to patients pending the first report of an open and independent assessment of national health demand and provision, a move to three year contracts between health authorities and boards and health providers and the immediate scrapping of local NHS pay bargaining. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Hughes : The hon. Gentleman should listen.
 Mr. Hughes : No, it is not true. Like all good stories, the hon. Gentleman's story is partly true and partly untrue. The truth is that we voted against the income tax reductions two years running. The figure he used was correct: it was about £1.8 billion. So that he does not accuse me of misrepresenting him, I have to say that we proposed that that money should go on education.
 Mr. Hughes : The hon. Gentleman is good at blustering.
 Mr. Hughes : Two years running.
 Mr. Simon Hughes : My hon. Friend and I probably represent the most different species of constituency in the United Kingdom. Mine is in the heart of London, and my hon. Friend's is in the most remote rural part of northern Scotland. Does he agree that one of the real concerns that affect us both is that, unless a real effort is made and funds are allocated to recruit people to general practice, there will be a shortage of general practitioners in all parts of the United Kingdom, in a way that none of us have known in our adult lives?
 Mr. Simon Hughes : I am glad that the NHS looked after the hon. Gentleman well and brought him back to health. Will he accept, however, that one of the concerns about the health service is that many people who do not want to use the private health sector feel increasingly driven to do so because they cannot be sure that the NHS will be able to do all the things that they need? One of the tests of the NHS's fragility is that there is a consistent increase in people who are opting for private health insurance—it was 11 per cent.; it is now up to 14 per cent. I remember that his previous leader, the noble Lady Thatcher, was happy to have private health insurance, but, when she needed emergency or more acute treatment, she relied on the NHS.
 Mr. Simon Hughes : I am grateful to the hon. Lady for identifying the issues on which we agree. However, will she tell the House whether she and her colleagues can support our second proposal, which is
 "a freeze on all finance-driven bed, hospital and service closures which represent a reduction of service to patients"?
 Mr. Simon Hughes : I do not want hon. Members who, for whatever reason, may not have been here for the whole debate to think that there is any doubt about the figures. My hon. Friend the Member for Caithness and Sutherland and I, together with our Treasury spokesman, my hon. Friend the Member for Gordon (Mr. Bruce), have made the figures very clear. 1054
 Mr. Dalyell : What does the Secretary of State say to worried officials of the Scottish Office who read in the newspapers that they are likely to be faced with redundancy?
 Sir Teddy Taylor  (Southend, East) : I am grateful to the hon. Member for Thurrock (Mr. Mackinlay), who made a most responsible speech, for allowing me two minutes to speak in his debate. I shall offer him the same facility next week when I have an Adjournment debate.
 Sir Teddy Taylor : Most certainly. Those are issues that we could discuss. On Monday, the Minister of State
 985
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department (Mr. Tom Sackville) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Thurrock (Mr. Mackinlay) on securing the Adjournment debate, and I welcome other hon. Members to a debate of great concern to Essex Members. I particularly welcome the Lord President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons, my right hon. Friend the Member for Braintree (Mr. Newton). "the fire service maintained its outstanding performance in meeting national standards for attending fire calls on 95 per cent. of occasions". 986
 Mr. Sackville : I hear what my hon. Friend says, but this should not be a matter for party political debate. We are discussing whether, on advice from the inspectorate, my right hon. and learned Friend the Home Secretary believes that fire cover is being maintained. I hope that the county council will hear what my hon. Friend said, and will take his remarks seriously. There should not be a delay, but there should be cool and detailed consideration of where best to use the resources to ensure that every part of the county is properly covered. 987
 Mr. Sackville : I shall deal with the hon. Gentleman's point later. 988
 Mr. William McKelvey  (Kilmarnock and Loudoun) : Has my hon. Friend had the opportunity to read the report by health visitors, which clearly shows that they have uncovered an increase in the incidence of rickets? As we know, rickets is a disease among children that is primarily caused by lack of vitamin B—through a lack of sunshine and especially a very poor diet that does not contain appropriate vitamins. When that was raised in the House, the former President of the Board of Trade admitted that he had read it but did not believe it. Such an attitude and response to a report by respectable and honest people is typical of Government Front Benchers.
 Mrs. Mahon : I wish to ask about openness.
 Mrs. Mahon : Will the Minister give way?
 Mrs. Alice Mahon  (Halifax) : Will the Minister answer the question asked by the hon. Member for Southwark and Bermondsey (Mr. Hughes)? Will he confirm that waiting lists in every constituency are getting longer?
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman  (Lancaster) : The debate may be of interest to the three Liberal Democrat Members who are present, but it is clearly of no interest to the rest of them.
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman : Will my hon. Friend confirm that, in the past two years, Government spending on schools has increased by £1.8 billion, which represents 1p in terms of income tax? Have we not therefore already achieved what the Liberal Democrats are calling for?
 Dame Elaine Kellett-Bowman  (Lancaster) : How much money would be saved by abolishing the assisted places scheme, and how many teachers would that abolition put into other schools?
 Mrs. Liddell : Why has the Minister not ordered an immediate public inquiry into the college board members who operate the very agencies that undercut the pay, conditions and job security of college lecturers? Is he aware that the matter is likely to be raised with Lord Nolan? Why did he wash his hands of it when I raised it with him in correspondence?
 Mrs. Maria Fyfe  (Glasgow, Maryhill) : Does my hon. Friend recall that in 1948 hot school dinners of good nutritional value were available everywhere? Today, local authorities are having to consider removing proper school meals from their spending plans.
 Mrs. Fyfe : Will the Minister give way?
 Mrs. Fyfe : Will the Minister not admit that the Government's record on spending public money is a disgrace? No council in Britain comes anywhere near it.
 990
 Dame Peggy Fenner : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I know that the hon. Member for Workington
 958
 Dame Peggy Fenner : It is an indescribable insult to Medway residents that the list of proposed cuts includes two retained fire stations and another fairly large station in Stroud—three fire stations in one area. We are talking about the largest conurbation and, indeed, the largest industrial area in Kent, which is about to become a unitary authority. It is disgraceful to do that to three fire stations.
 Dame Peggy Fenner  (Medway) : I am heartened by the pledge my hon. Friend has just made on behalf of the Conservative members of Kent county council. The area that my hon. Friend the Member for Gillingham (Mr. Couchman) and I represent is about to become a unitary authority. That is a sign that the area is the largest conurbation in Kent and its most industrial part. It unwittingly contributed to the peace dividend when it lost its major employer in the dockyard in the early 1980s. Adult education is essential—I am sure that all hon. Members know that it is vital to have a centre where the young can go to develop their education and their skills, where those who took early redundancy from the dockyard can go to develop new skills and where our considerable elderly population can go for exciting recreational and educational facilities. I am sure that people of all political persuasions agree with that.
 Mrs. Ray Michie : The Secretary of State will be aware of the £8.5 million cuts which are facing Argyll and Bute council, because I wrote to him to ask him for a meeting on the matter, which he unfortunately declined. Is it not unrealistic to expect COSLA and the distribution committee to agree to take money from other councils so that Argyll and Bute can qualify for the special islands needs allowance? Does not the ultimate responsibility for funding and helping Argyll and Bute lie with him? We really must stop going around and around in circles and buck passing. Will the Secretary of State take that on board today?
 Mrs. Gorman : Is not the amount of money in question barely £1.5 million? As that compares with Essex council's current reserves of £21 million, should it not be well within its capacity to find that money? Will my hon. Friend address that point?
 Mrs. Teresa Gorman  (Billericay) : Corringham fire station is in my constituency and I take a special interest. It covers the petrochemical areas of Shell Haven and Mobil on Coryton peninsula, two of the largest processing areas in Britain, which service many big oil tankers every day.
 Ms Morris : I am still staggered to think where all the four-year-olds have gone to. However, the Minister did not answer the question that I asked. As he has been able to cost the policy at less money, perhaps his commitment to nursery education would be more credible if he had transferred that money to expanding nursery provision for three-year-olds.
 Ms Morris : They may not be denied their voucher, but they will be denied their place, and I think that they will be far more concerned about places than about vouchers. I am always staggered that the number of four-year-olds changes as they change from being three years old to four years old. I do not know where they have all come from—perhaps they are born rather late in life. However, if the Minister has managed to secure sufficient places for four-year-olds within the current Budget, why did he not use £50 million to extend nursery provision to three-year-olds rather than cutting it from the Budget?
 Ms Estelle Morris  (Birmingham, Yardley) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Foster) on persuading his party to give an Opposition day to the subject of education. I notice that the motion is couched mainly in terms of investment, which is of course important, but I want to start by talking about what I might crudely term output—the word the Minister used. 1082
 Ms Morris : The Liberal Democrats are beginning to sound a little like the party in government, because, when they attempt to fight Labour at the local level, they manage to find imagined money in the budget to spend on education. They do exactly the same thing in Birmingham. I do not know the exact breakdown of expenditure in Wirral, South, although I thought that there was an agreement between the hon. Member for Bath, who leads on education for the Liberal Democrats, and the Labour Front Bench that there is no extra money for
 1083
 Ms Morris : I have given way several times already and I am keen to make progress. I have nearly finished, so I will not give way now. 1086
 Ms Morris : I have just explained where it will come from.
 Ms Morris : The hon. Gentleman cannot change his policy in an intervention— [Interruption.]
 Ms Morris : The hon. Gentleman is anticipating comments that I will make later in my speech. Perhaps he will wait, and I will make those comments. 1085
 Ms Estelle Morris : Just once.
 Ms Morris   rose
 Ms Estelle Morris : Why then does the hon. Gentleman not support homework for everyone, which is the Labour party's policy?
 Ms Armstrong : Ministers acknowledge that the settlement is difficult for all authorities. Difficult choices are being made. Those choices will have to affect central administration as well as front-line services, but such cuts will not be sufficient. The authority is already spending substantially above the standard spending assessment on the fire service. It is in difficulty because the Government do not acknowledge what hon. Members have said today about the needs of the fire service. The money needed to meet the commitments is not there. Incredibly difficult choices have to be made. It is our responsibility to work with all the councillors in Kent to ensure that they are able both to protect as much of the service provision as possible and to come within the spending limits.
 Ms Armstrong : What about Westminster?
 Ms Hilary Armstrong  (North-West Durham) : I shall be brief. In many senses, this has been a rather sad debate Every authority faces difficult choices I know that none
 960
 Ms Armstrong : I wish that we had had a proper debate this morning about the problems facing Kent and the way forward. The tragedy is that not one suggestion has come from the Conservative group at county hall, other than merging the posts of the chief officers. That has been the Conservatives' only suggestion for budget cuts for next
 961 [Interruption.]
 Ms Armstrong : It is a pity that the hon. Gentleman was not here for Monday's debate. Had he been here, he would have heard what we have to say on that. We recognise that this year's settlement is very difficult, but I pointed out on Monday that the level of public debt is completely out of control and that, as a consequence, the next Labour Government will not be able to promise more money to anyone. We did promise, and we shall continue to promise, a fairer distribution of the grant and a more open system for distributing the SSA.
 Ms Armstrong : They were run by the Labour party, and the Labour party tackled the problems and sorted them out. Today we have seen Conservative Members colluding with the Tory Trot tendency in Kent.
 Ms Armstrong : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. When I read the letter from the Conservative chairman of finance, I wondered whether we were back in the 1980s. It pledged no cuts in services—we have heard that today—and no increase in council tax. It is reminiscent of Lambeth and Liverpool in the early 1980s.
 Ms Hilary Armstrong  (North-West Durham) : From Conservative central office.
 Ms Armstrong : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mrs. Jane Kennedy  (Liverpool, Broadgreen) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Knowsley, South (Mr. O'Hara) on securing the debate. I am conscious of time, and shall not detain the House. 927
 Mrs. Kennedy : That is my point precisely. As my hon. Friend the Member for Knowsley, South has explained, the workers at Ford Halewood have demonstrated their capacity to grapple with the problems that the company faces and to work in partnership with it. There has been an unprecedented period of freedom from all kinds of industrial problems at the plant. The workers have demonstrated their commitment to the company, and shown that they are prepared to work with it to rise above the challenges that it is telling us about. 928
 Ms Jowell : The hon. Gentleman will be aware that we have made clear our commitment to a moratorium on any further acute bed closures in London, because of the particular circumstances and pressures that arose after the Tomlinson report. So we are committed to a moratorium in London. We have not made, and at this stage we would not make, a similar commitment nationally, as he would like. If elected to government after the next general election, however, we will carefully examine the position, particularly in deprived inner-city areas, where—for very obvious reasons—pressure on acute beds tends to be greatest.
 Ms Jowell : It is absolutely clear that the way in which the Government have tilted the balance in distributing money for community care towards the independent sector has created the bed-blocking problem in so many parts of the country. There was virtually no independent provision in my own borough—which I shall use as a specific example—and it was therefore very difficult to move elderly people out of hospital and into care funded through community care money, which was made available by the reforms. All types of perverse incentives have been created because of the Government's doctrinaire obsession with care commercialisation, rather than with patients' best interests.
 Ms Jowell : No, I will not give way again— [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
 Ms Jowell : The Minister is perfectly well aware that that is absolutely not so. One of the obstacles to many
 1043
 Ms Tessa Jowell  (Dulwich) : We too would like to record our condolences to the hon. Member for North-East Cambridgeshire (Mr. Moss) following his recent sad bereavement. 1040 "in and out of red alert." "closed to elective admission and running at full capacity", "waiting lists have grown longer". 1041 "avoid the perils of over-competitiveness … there is the ever-present danger of trusts becoming too competitive for business at the expense of quality. In other words, trying to do more for less. If this were to continue unchecked, staff would undoubtedly lose confidence in the market system." 1042
 Ms Jowell : I make no apology for not giving way to the hon. Member for Southport (Mr. Banks), who made a speech lasting almost half an hour. Liberal Democrat News, 1044 "People are regularly waiting unacceptably long periods of time on trolleys in A & E departments". "Overnighters, people waiting overnight in casualty, are becoming a regular feature of London's health services." "hospitals running at near to 100 per cent. occupancy and elective surgery frequently cancelled—including cancer operations". "Because of the problems in other district hospitals brought about by the recent bed crisis, we have not been able to move patients out of the unit and, therefore, this has restricted our ability to bring in patients for treatment. I wanted to reassure you that your brain tumour is not growing rapidly and that you will come to no medical harm as a result of the additional delay which has been forced upon us by this difficult situation. At the moment I cannot give you a date for admission but you can be reassured that you have not been forgotten." 1045
 Rev. Ian Paisley  (North Antrim) : I wish to offer my condolences and those of my colleagues to the Under-Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, the hon. Member for North-East Cambridgeshire (Mr. Moss), who is responsible for health in Northern Ireland. At talks yesterday at which all parties were represented, there was a public and unanimous expression of sympathy for him. I trust that the Ministers here today will convey that to him as soon as they can. 1046 1047
 Rev. Martin Smyth : The hon. Gentleman mentioned our last debate on the NHS. In that debate, the Minister who was responding gave a figure of £1.56 billion for the NHS, but did not say that £56 million was going to Northern Ireland. The hon. Gentleman has mentioned local negotiations. Our budget has not been given an increase of 3 per cent., but has been cut by 3 per cent. This year, it has been reduced to 1.5 per cent. up front.
 Rev. Martin Smyth : The motion deals specifically with that matter. I accept that the Government of the day may have to find some money from another sphere.
 Rev. Martin Smyth : I have no difficulty with the Audit Commission doing the work, but I am concerned about the pressure of work on it. Often, when Select Committees are asked to consider its reports, civil servants or officers come before us to answer our queries and we discover that they are doing their best to kick into touch. They say that were not involved in the misdemeanours of previous years and assure us that they will do better in future. In the end, the same mistakes are perpetrated. However, I have no difficulty with the examination being carried by the Audit Commission.
 Rev. Martin Smyth : I have no difficulty with that, because it is part of the system. If people who need treatment can receive it in other places, that is fine. The tragedy is that some purchasing bodies are not prepared to go elsewhere, even if, as in the case of Ayrshire and some London providers, the service is offered as a loss leader, to try to fill spare places. If patients who need treatment can be treated anywhere in the NHS, I would support it. Certainly there is a bond, and it will be strengthened when Musgrave Park hospital starts competing and tendering abroad. It, too, has the facility to do that but, unfortunately, it has tried to treat people in Northern Ireland as first priority when the boards in Northern Ireland have not been able to purchase places there. "on the basis of need regardless of the ability to pay" 1031
 Rev. Martin Smyth  (Belfast, South) : I am aware of the positive role of the national health service. I remember that, some years ago, when we were considering
 1030
 Rev. Martin Smyth : I appreciate the hon. Member giving way. I understand his response to the hon. Member for Dover (Mr. Shaw), but does he accept that he was only partially right? The bulk of the hospitals in Northern Ireland were built under a devolved Administration, and have been run down ever since.
 Rev. Martin Smyth  (Belfast, South)   rose
 Sir John Cope   indicated assent.
 Sir John Cope  (Northavon) : The second Severn crossing—in spite of having an uninspired name—is a wonderful engineering achievement that has rightly won prizes. It is also valuable to those of us to the east of the river, as well as to south Wales and west Gloucestershire. However, the gains have been at the expense of residents, particularly in the parish of Pilning and Severn Beach in my constituency. The villages have been cut in three by the new approach roads, with a large motorway junction in the middle. 974 975 976
 Sir Paul Beresford : Including Westminster, although the hon. Lady does not seem to appreciate that. 963
 Sir Paul Beresford : Interestingly, one or two strays from Lancashire and Cumbria have also been present. 962
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment (Sir Paul Beresford) : I must congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Dartford (Mr. Dunn) and every Conservative Member from Kent.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment (Sir Paul Beresford) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Me William : If the hon. Gentleman extends his mind forward a little, he may find that Conservative Members are less keen to try to embarrass the Opposition because they cut defence expenditure in the "Statement on the Defence Estimates 1995" by 36 per cent. over the past three years, not 31 per cent.—there is £80 million tucked away in the budget. Conservatives may not be quite so keen to expose themselves to the fact that they have slashed expenditure by more than a third in the past three years.
 Dr. Strang : Following on from the Minister's answer to my hon. Friend the Member for West Lancashire (Mr. Pickthall), will she make it clear that the Government accept the principle that consumers should be able to choose whether they eat genetically modified foods? That means that there has to be proper labelling and segregation at the point of production. Is it not of concern that genetically modified maize incorporates a gene that confers a resistance to the antibiotic Ampicillin and that there is a danger that such resistance will be transferred to humans? Having failed to block the entry of that maize at European level, what are the Government doing about it?
 Dr. Strang : Is it the case that the Minister did not find time yesterday to apologise to the annual general meeting of the National Farmers Union for the fact that the Government have delayed the lifting of the beef ban by a whole six months by shelving the Florence agreement? Is it also the case that he did find time to insult his audience with a pack of nonsense about the Labour party?
 Dr. Reid : The hon. and learned Gentleman is making a perceptive contribution. To complement what he is saying, I remind him that the reading of entrails is also done by the Germans and that I can think of nothing that is more calculated to give succour, in the run-up to the Bundestag's decision, to those who would seek to scrap German support for Eurofighter than the dishonest rumours and stories put about that an incoming British Government would ditch the programme. That is the point about the juvenile irresponsibility of those who would seek to make short-term party political points about Eurofighter.
 Dr. Reid : We all delivered the same speeches.
 Dr. Reid   indicated dissent.
 Dr. John Reid  (Motherwell, North) : I am struggling for a word to describe that speech—breathtaking, I think, especially the biblical Gotterdammerung that was conjured up in the event of a Labour Government. I suppose that it was, however, an indication that "Care in the Community" sometimes can work. "Wired to the moon" is probably the only expression that comes to mind. 1223 1224 The Daily Telegraph 1225 "a period of stability and reflection". 1226
 Dr. Reid : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman, but I was aware of that. The Army has also done it. I have spent two weekends on such schemes and I was deeply impressed. 1227
 Dr. Reid : We are not joining in the game of exempting from reviews. The Army will be in the review, but we do
 1233
 Dr. Reid : Will the Minister give way?
 Dr. Reid : I do not want to confuse the situation, because I have already made a pretty clear statement, which the Secretary of State can read tomorrow in  Hansard.
 Dr. Reid   rose
 Dr. Reid : Will the Minister give way? We have plenty of time.
 Dr. Reid : Will the Minister give a cast-iron guarantee that the Conservatives will not cut the defence budget outlined for the next two years? Will he give a cast-iron guarantee, as the shadow Chancellor has?
 Dr. John Reid  (Motherwell, North) : Lest he inadvertently mislead the nation as well as the House, let me tell the Minister that he is out of date. Last week, there was an immediate response to that question and I responded to it an hour ago on national television.
 Dr. Reid : From a sedentary position, the Secretary of State is asking whether I speak with the authority of my right hon. Friends the Members for Dunfermline, East (Mr. Brown) and for Sedgefield (Mr. Blair). I assure him that a statement of that nature would not have been made without the full clearance of our Treasury spokesmen and our leader because Labour operates in a less chaotic way when making these decisions than do the Government.
 Dr. Reid : Was it Shrivenham?
10.  Dr. Lynne Jones : To ask the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food if he will make a statement on the storage of slaughtered cattle. [13114]
 Dr. Jones : Who is paying the £250,000 weekly cost of that storage? Less than 4 per cent. of the cattle have been disposed of properly by incineration. What is the Minister doing to reduce that cost, and to allay the anxiety that meat from those carcases—thousands of carcases kept in cold storage—could find its way into butchers' shops?
Q1.  Dr. Lynne Jones : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Thursday 6 February. [13132]
 Dr. Jones : The Prime Minister will know, because I gave him advance notification of this question, that, last year, the Secretary of State for Health visited my constituency to open the new £7.5 million trauma and burns unit at Selly Oak hospital. People were relieved because they thought that, at last, the future of the hospital was secure, but now there is again talk of its closure. Does the Prime Minister agree that it would be barmy to close those brand-new facilities and those in the sister Queen Elizabeth hospital? Does he realise that local people do not trust his Government on health—especially when they know that the Secretary of State for Health does not rely on the NHS and takes out private health insurance?
 Dr. Godman : One much-needed reform would be a complete ban on industrial fishing. Does the Minister agree that industrial fishing is deeply harmful, particularly to juvenile members of commercially valuable species? Does he also agree that our once-rich seas are being swept clean, and one of the major culprits is the industrial fishing vessel?
 Mr. Soames : Will the hon. Gentlemen clarify exactly what he means about risk management? How does he think that current risk management should be altered, and what action does he think that he would take?
 Mr. Soames : All of us realise that the hon. Gentleman is a good man doing his best in a hopeless case and that was an unconvincing affirmation of a policy. As we all know, neither the shadow Chancellor nor the Leader of the Opposition have confirmed any of the contracts. All they and the shadow defence spokesman, the hon. Member for South Shields (Dr. Clark), whose absence we regret today, have been able to say—we have it in black and white—is that there would be a defence review and that the consequences of that review would be extremely painful. My right hon. and hon. Friends and I know perfectly well what that means and we also know the grave danger that that would pose to the interests of the constituents of my hon. Friend the Member for Ribble Valley (Mr. Evans) and to the services. It merely confirms what the people of Britain have always known: that, as on many other matters, one cannot trust the Labour party on defence.
 Mr. Soames : I am aware of the contract. Thomson is a company in my constituency, so I must be cautious. My hon. Friend will know what has been said by my hon. Friend the Minister of State for Defence Procurement, who will be able to deal with the matter more dispassionately than I later this evening. The House will realise that I am well informed on procurement matters and always ready to engage in combat on such difficult questions. It is dark and lonely work, but someone has to do it. 1161 1162
 Mr. Soames : That is, if I may say so to a nice person, a singularly foolish question, because if we had not felt confident we would not have let the contract.
 Mr. Soames : No, I will not, if the hon. Gentleman will forgive me. 1164 1165
 Mr. Soames : The hon. Gentleman is correct that, in the course of routine servicing, a fault was detected. In the usual way, as these matters are, it was dealt with, and all others with aircraft of the same type and age were informed to check. That is standard procedure. The matter has been dealt with. Laughter. 1166 1167 1168
 Mr. Soames : I am entirely happy to confirm that to my hon. Friend. Almost without exception, all central staff
 1169
 Mr. Soames : My hon. Friend has been a tremendous supporter of the reserve forces and I was grateful to him for his support throughout the passage of the Bill that led to the Reserve Forces Act 1996. As a former serving member of the Royal Air Force, he knows the contribution that the reserve forces can make, provided that they are properly equipped and trained and have a clear role. The appointment is an important signal to the reserve forces, and as I have said to my hon. Friend the Member for Canterbury (Mr. Brazier), it is important to have such a man in that post. It will let the reserves see that they are truly valued and have a role to play, for example, in the one-army concept. They must have the most efficient and effective equipment for the roles that they will undertake. There is a balance to be struck between ensuring that they have a voice at the centre of decision making and ensuring that they are properly equipped and funded for training days.
 Mr. Soames : There has never been any problem about the cadets or the reserves communicating their views to
 1170
 Mr. Soames : I most certainly would. It is an extraordinary excuse to say that he cannot be here because he has flu. It is absolutely ridiculous. Time after time, my right hon. and hon. Friends come here reeking with flu, falling down with it, and take their places. If the hon. Gentleman thinks that he can be Secretary of State for Defence and not turn up because he has flu, he really has problems. The hon. Gentleman did not dare show his face, flu or no flu. [ Interruption. The Economist The Daily Telegraph 1171
 Mr. Soames : The hon. Gentleman says that that is rubbish, but it is true because to Labour, defence is not a priority. Half the members of the Labour party are members of CND and are completely untrustworthy on defence. The concepts on which defence policy is made, and all the qualities that mark the services as being admirable, are wholly inimical to the politically correct nostrums and entirely contrary socialist left-wing beliefs. They are entirely alien to a socialist Labour party, old or new. Conservatives will never forget the spineless and craven folly of some current Opposition Members and their reckless and grotesque flirtation with CND and its fellow travellers. When it mattered, Labour bottled out and chucked in the sponge. If Labour had been in power in the 1980s, there would have been no cruise missiles and no Trident and there would have been serious consequences for our national security. The hon. Member for Warley, West (Mr. Spellar) may well squirm like a wounded squirrel. The hon. Gentleman's trial by fire is temporarily over until I unleash my hon. Friends upon him, with a judicious use of air power by my hon. Friend the Member for Wyre (Mr. Mans).
 Mr. Soames : My hon. Friend, who is an extraordinarily doughty supporter of British Aerospace and of his constituents' interests, is quite right. There has been no response to the points he raised—indeed, one has to assume that all those major contracts go into the melting pot and are up for grabs, with grave potential
 1163
 The Minister of State for the Armed Forces (Mr. Nicholas Soames) : Madam Speaker, I very much welcome the opportunity to open this afternoon's debate on the Royal Air Force. 1158 "Air power is the most difficult of all forms of military force to measure, or even to express in precise terms". 1159
 Mr. Soames : I saw the hon. Gentleman pregnant with question, and wondered when he would be delivered. It is a difficult question to answer. We were part of a United Nations operation that subsequently became a NATO operation, and there was a profound disagreement between the partners. With the sensitivity of its being a United Nations operation—a peacekeeping operation—the use of air power and bombs would have turned it over what was called the Mogadishu line, from peacekeeping to war fighting. It is a tribute to the timing of the decision that the operation passed off highly successfully and achieved precisely the stated objectives with the very precise, limited use of air power.
 Mr. Soames : The hon. Gentleman knows that we employ skilled and brilliant engineers to deal with the matter. Their man will be answering such questions later this evening. I am afraid that I cannot help.
 Mr. Soames : My hon. Friend was good enough to warn me that he might bowl that ball at me. I am happy to confirm the importance of flying training. If it were not for flying training and the pilots—quite apart from the support services—nothing would happen. I pay warm tribute to the maintenance of the extraordinary quality of flying training, which is regarded all over the world as the
 1160
 Mr. Soames : Good man.
 Lady Olga Maitland : Quite right. She is a good man because a good woman is equal to a man and better. The Daily Telegraph 1218 [Interruption.] "reflect Britain's international interests and commitments." "a precious national asset to be treasured" [Interruption.]
 Lady Olga Maitland : The right hon. Gentleman wore his Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament badge with pride. I recall vividly that he pounded the table and punched the air with that messianic passion that we now see in respect of all sorts of other views. Today, the right hon. Gentleman has abandoned those ideas. He has seen the light. How can I believe that, when he has chopped and changed on every topic under the sun?
 Lady Olga Maitland : We are already committed to sound spending on defence. The Daily Telegraph "we must stick to the tough spending limits Gordon Brown has proposed." 1219 The New Statesman "we do not need to spend as much on defence." "It is only by having a strategic defence review, with the painful consequences, that that problem can be addressed."—[ Official Report, 1220
 Lady Olga Maitland : I draw the hon. Gentleman's attention to early-day motion 422, on the
 "Sale of Armoured Vehicles to Indonesia" "That this House condemns the decision by Her Majesty's Government to issue export licences for the export to Indonesia of 50 Alvis armoured vehicles, as well as a variety of police vehicles".
 Lady Olga Maitland  (Sutton and Cheam) : I welcome the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for North Tayside (Mr. Walker) and support his comments about the Air Cadet Force and the concept of Army cadets and sea cadets. I hope that his enthusiasm is deeply infectious and that my hon. Friends on the Front Bench will take note. I know that they have already set in motion a plan to support the expansion of this admirable scheme. 1217
 Lady Olga Maitland : We have a very clear policy on arms sales abroad: they are for defence and for friendly nations. We will not sell to a country that will use arms for an improper purpose. It is suggested that it is somehow improper to sell police vehicles to Indonesia. Such a policy would kill jobs—and that would be on the Labour party's conscience. 1221
 Lady Olga Maitland  (Sutton and Cheam) : This is a fudge.
 Lady Olga Maitland : I am left in complete confusion. I would be grateful if the hon. Gentleman would clarify his remarks, since the matter has not been clarified by his colleagues. Is he or is he not advocating that the Eurofighter will be in the strategic defence review? Does he support the ordering of 232 such aircraft, or is that order now open to being cut?
 Madam Speaker : No, no. The hon. Member for Sheffield, Hillsborough (Mrs. Jackson) seldom raises a point of order, and it is quite a sensible one, in connection with data protection. I am sure that the hon. Lady will understand that it is not a matter for me what individual Members, including the Prime Minister, do. That does not relate to the Chair.
 Madam Speaker : Is it a separate point of order? Is it a sensible point of order? [ Laughter.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman must resume his seat. He now seems to be generalising. It is matter of quid pro quo. Nobody writes to me, and I am very pleased that they do not.
 Madam Speaker : I think that that is a point of view rather than a point of order.
 Madam Speaker : No, no.
 Madam Speaker : Order. I really am getting very weary of barracking from a sedentary position, particularly from Front-Bench Members.
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : Order. I do not expect a running commentary from the Labour Front Bench.
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : It does seem somewhat excessive, but it is the present rule.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : Order. It is very clear that if the Minister or any other hon. Member who has the Floor does not give way, the other hon. Member must resume his seat.
 Mr. Alex Salmond  (Banff and Buchan) : If the Leader of the House would care to give me an Opposition day, I should be happy to entertain a debate on the constitution.
 Mr. Andrew Faulds  (Warley, East) : The Minister has been arguing about the efficacy of air power, which none of us would dispute. Why were the Government so reluctant to use this very impressive weapon in the Bosnian situation? Why were they so reluctant, when others were urging such actions upon us?
 Mr. Andrew Faulds  (Warley, East) : When can the House urgently have an opportunity to debate the continuing misjudgments of the Governor of Hong Kong in chipping away at the international agreements which were brilliantly achieved by Lord Howe, then Foreign Secretary, in 1984 and which this uninformed Governor is immensely damaging? Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that he managed to educate even an uninformed personality like Lady Thatcher about the realities of what had to develop between China and Hong Kong? Why on earth do HM Government allow this man to persist in damaging those immensely important international relationships?
 Mr. Mackinlay : The Germans are very successful.
 Mr. Andrew Mackinlay  (Thurrock) : May I return to the subject of the Police Bill [ Lords
 Sir Anthony Grant  (South-West Cambridgeshire) : Will my right hon. Friend ask the Home Secretary to resist the blandishments of the hon. Member for Dewsbury (Mrs. Taylor) on the Firearms (Amendment) Bill when it returns to the House? Will he also ask him to ensure that any
 1146
 Mr. Sheerman : When will the Government stop wringing their hands and give consumers a choice? In terms of animal welfare, what consumers want is to be able to walk into a shop or supermarket and buy a product made from an animal that they know has been treated humanely over its lifetime. Whether we are talking about animals or genetically modified food, the Government do not seem to understand that consumers want a good clear choice.
 Mr. Olner : How many of the carcases have been disposed of during the selective cull? I am led to believe that the number is very small. Perhaps the Minister could inform the House on the matter.
 Mr. Bill Walker  (North Tayside) : May we have an early opportunity to discuss the serious matter that was reported in Scottish newspapers this morning? I believe that the leader of the Labour group on Glasgow council has said that he was offered trips, paid for from the public purse, for votes. That is a result of the current civil war in the Labour party, in Glasgow and elsewhere in Scotland. The matter is so serious that it must be addressed—and quickly.
 Mr. Bill Walker : Let me make it quite clear that I do not doubt the hon. Gentleman's integrity. I remember when he was a member of the shadow defence team. Why did the yardstick that he is describing not apply to the TSR2? He will understand why Conservative Members are apprehensive.
 Mr. Bill Walker : I trust that the hon. Gentleman is aware that almost every air force in the world comes to the United Kingdom to train and to learn how we deal with accidents. Surely that indicates that we know what we are about?
 Mr. Bill Walker : I trust that the hon. Gentleman understands that the CCF is a tiny part of the cadet
 1180
 Mr. Bill Walker  (North Tayside) : Will the communications that we debated earlier in the context of the Territorial Army, the auxiliaries and the reserves apply to the volunteer officers and instructors in the Air Cadet Force? Does might right hon. Friend agree that they have to have a viable means of communicating their views, and can he assure the House that that is part of what is being studied?
 Mr. Walker : No; we have now reached a period in which we will try to maintain current levels of defence spending in real terms. If we are to maintain our commitments and the military capability that we think is necessary, it would not be viable to spend below that level. 1212 1213 1214 1215
 Mr. Bill Walker : The hon. Gentleman probably does not know that the Air Training Corps is carrying out pilot schemes with youngsters at risk. It is not taking people who have committed offences but is taking youngsters whom social work departments deem to be at risk.
 Mr. Bill Walker  (North Tayside) : I assure the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mrs. Campbell) that Conservative Members also have a longstanding affection for Marshall of Cambridge. My hon. Friend the Member for Ruislip-North wood (Mr. Wilkinson) said that he was worried about his grey hairs. I first came into contact with Marshall of Cambridge when I was a young flying officer—I will not tell the House when that was, but it was a long time ago. Later in life, I had the good fortune to meet and to work with Sir Arthur Marshall in a voluntary capacity. I have also worked with his son Michael, who is regional chairman of the Air Cadet Council. I doubt whether anyone will ever fully appreciate the time and the effort that he devotes to the air cadets. All that work—and all the work done before him by his father, Sir Arthur—cannot be measured financially. They gave very valuable trophies, which were awarded to the cadets, and they undertook many other interesting sponsorships. Marshall's has a very soft spot for the air cadets, and we love them very dearly. 1211
 Mr. George : I cannot duck history. * 1239 "I assure the hon. Gentleman that, while he is watching closely over one shoulder of those responsible, the Government, conscious of their responsibilities for the green belt, for historic buildings and the historic parkland and for the overall situation, are looking closely over the other."—[ Official Report, "Walsall council's record with regard to defending the green belt is far from scintillating, but it is not one of total indifference."—[ Official Report, 1240 1241
 Mr. Bruce George  (Walsall, South) : I suppose I should apologise to my Front-Bench colleague, my hon. Friend the Member for Motherwell, North (Dr. Reid), for not participating in the debate on the Royal Air Force but, for the moment, the defence of the realm takes second place to the defence of the green belt in my constituency. Hansard "It is no exaggeration to say that Walsall is not over-endowed with properties and parklands of great historical and architectural interest."—[ Official Report, * 1238 *
 Mr. George : I had forgotten that procedure, Madam Deputy Speaker, and I was temporarily embarrassed at the prospect of having to finish half-way through my speech.
4.  Mr. Pickthall : To ask the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food what further action he intends to take to enable consumers to make a choice over whether or not to consume genetically modified soya and maize. [13106]
 Mr. Pickthall : No doubt the Minister is well briefed on public anxieties about genetically modified ingredients in food. Does she agree that consumers should be free to choose non-genetically modified food and that their freedom depends on accurate labelling? Will she join United Kingdom producers and retailers in campaigning to get Monsanto, the American firm, to segregate genetically modified food from non-genetically modified food to allow for such labelling? Will she urge the Commission to reinstate its ban on unprocessed genetically modified maize?
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : Too late.
9.  Mr. Amess : To ask the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food what recent representations he has received about reforming the European fisheries policy. [13113]
 Mr. Amess : Does my hon. Friend welcome the news that Emma Bonino, at a meeting with my hon. Friend the Member for Castle Point (Dr. Spink), local Essex fishermen and me, agreed with our criticism of the common fisheries policy and said that it needed urgent reform? Will he also reflect on the recent meeting with local Essex fishermen and, in particular, on their point about regional management?
 Mr. David Amess  (Basildon) : Will my right hon. Friend find time for a debate on the future of Channel 4? Does he agree that drug abuse is a serious matter, as will be shown on a sensible television programme on the subject later this evening? Does he also agree that for the chairman, board and chief executive of Channel 4 to sanction and condone a spoof on drug abuse, wasting the time of busy people, is beneath contempt?
 Mr. David Heathcoat-Amory  (Wells) : May I support earlier calls for a debate on devolution? Both the main Opposition parties have resolved to set up a rival Parliament in Edinburgh and also, apparently, to set up regional assemblies in England. They would add another tier of bureaucracy in many of our constituencies. As the proposed assembly for the west country would have no defined powers, and we do not know who would sit on it, who would pay for it or which counties would be covered, it would be a fruitful subject for debate and we could learn precisely what the Opposition are planning.
 Mr. David Nicholson : Will my right hon. and learned Friend continue to remind our European counterparts that in this country we have slaughtered 1.3 million predominantly healthy cattle; that we propose under the Florence agreement to slaughter a further 100,000 or so predominantly healthy cattle; and that, as he has just reminded the House, this process is costing the British taxpayer—predominantly, with some help from Europe—more than £3 billion? As we have public debates in the country over the next few weeks, not only the farming community but the taxpayers will show their resentment at the continued discrimination against British beef by our European counterparts, and at their failure to put their own house in order.
 Mr. David Shaw  (Dover) : May we have a debate on unemployment, so that we can get home to people the fact that unemployment in, for example, Dover is half that in Calais, 22 miles away? There are enormous problems in Europe, which must be dealt with; the House must have a proper debate, so that we can explain to the French and Germans that it is because they are following socialist policies, which are being pushed by the Labour party in this country, that they have higher unemployment than us.
 Mr. Shaw : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker.
 Mr. David Shaw  (Dover)   rose
 Mr. Shaw : I must, as always, Madam Speaker, leave you to judge that point. As you know, I always respect your judgment on such matters. 1156
 Mr. Shaw   rose
 Mr. David Winnick  (Walsall, North) : Will the Leader of the House inform the Home Secretary that when the House again debates the Firearms (Amendment) Bill, it is absolutely essential that the wrecking Lords amendment be overturned? Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that at an event in my constituency last week, I had the honour to meet Mr. and Mrs. Martyn Dunn, whose daughter Charlotte was one of the infants murdered at Dunblane? Is it not now all the more important that the pledge that effective action would be taken over guns—a pledge that was given after the Dunblane massacre—is carried out and that there is no appeasement by the Government?
 Mr. Skinner : In the lead.
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Why do the Leader of the House and Ministers make statements on nurses' and teachers' pay in the form of a written question, instead of making a statement in the House, so that hon. Members can make their position clear? If there is enough money to find £60 million-plus for a royal yacht and enough to pay the fat salary increases of generals, Members of Parliament, Ministers and all the rest of them, why cannot the Government say to nurses and teachers that they will immediately pay the money from the pay review in full?
 Mr. Skinner : That puts me in the clear.
 Sir Donald Thompson : Arising directly out of the question asked by the hon. Member for West Lancashire (Mr. Pickthall), clearly the new food safety council will need to be carefully harmonised with the Spongiform Encephalopathy Advisory Committee and other advisory councils, otherwise there will be duplication and a muddle, which would be unusual for the Ministry.
7.  Mr. Hoyle : To ask the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food what bodies and committees his Ministry consults regularly on food safety policies; and how many of these represent scientific interests. [13110]
 Mr. Hoyle : Does the Minister remember that, 12 months ago, the Prime Minister rubbished the Labour party proposal to set up a food standards agency, yet his Department recently announced the setting up of a food safety council? Is that not another U-turn by his discredited Government? Is it not an attempt to steal Labour's clothes? Can he assure us that the council will not be a tame tabby cat for food companies but will instead defend the rights of the consumer?
 Mr. Hogg : My right hon. Friend the Prime Minister rubbished Labour's proposals because they were rubbish, and they remain so, in so far as I understand them. The essential difference between our proposals and those that emanate from the Opposition is that, in so far as there is any substance in Labour's proposals, they combine the function of the implementing authority with that of the commentating supervisory authority. Such a body would commentate on that which it had done. We propose to separate those functions, so that Ministers are responsible for the implementation, setting and carrying through of policy, and for explaining it as and when necessary. The council and the adviser have a duty and ability to express in public their view on food safety, including the appropriateness of the policies of the Government of the day. That is by far the most effective way of reassuring the public.
 Mr. Douglas Hogg : The Ministry of Agriculture takes advice on food safety issues from a wide range of advisory committees, most of which are able to advise on scientific issues.
 Mr. Hogg : I thank my hon. Friend for his congratulations, which are always happily received. We want to find ways of yet further reinforcing the authority of the specialist advisory committees, and we shall do so in the context of the proposal for the food safety council. We are examining SEAC's terms of reference, and its structure, membership and operation, with special regard to the points that my right hon. Friend the Health Secretary and I made on March 20.
 Mr. Hogg : I have recognised for some time—
 Mr. Hogg : My hon. Friend's points are correct in every respect.
 Mr. Hogg : I had a very interesting discussion with the National Farmers Union yesterday, in which I made a number of points, one of which was that, in respect of BSE-related expenditure, we had committed £3.3 billion, the equivalent of 2p on income tax. I asked whether those attending supposed that the Labour party would have done that; it was clear that they did not. When I raised the matter of the near certainty of the Labour party removing relief for inheritance tax purposes from agricultural land, I noticed that they all agreed with that. On the selective cull, I did not have to remind them, because they know full well that until October they were opposed to it.
 Mr. Hogg : The hon. Gentleman has always been concerned about the flagged herds. I understand that, and I know that my noble Friend the Under-Secretary shares that concern.
 Mr. Hogg : My hon. Friend is entirely right. I share his view that British beef is the best and the safest in Europe. It is important that the European Union should agree to a proper offal regime in its abattoirs, as we have in ours. I regret the fact that the Agriculture Council decided not to accept those proposals from the Commission. It would be enormously helpful if the European Union would copy our measures in mainland Europe, so that the prohibition on the use of meat and bonemeal in food rations was extended to all farm animals.
 The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mr. Douglas Hogg) : I met the Agriculture Commissioner on 28 January to discuss our proposals for a certified herds scheme. We will submit those proposals in writing in the next few weeks and will press the Commission for an urgent decision.
 Mr. Hogg : We have now implemented all five of the Florence agreement preconditions, and we are now looking to the European states to honour their part of the bargain.
 Mr. Hogg : My hon. Friend is quite right. I am glad to say that the numbers of confirmed cases of BSE in the United Kingdom are falling year on year by about 40 per cent., and we hope to see the effective end of the disease in the United Kingdom national herd by around 2001. The latest figures I have—which may be of interest to the House—are as follows: in 1994, there were 23,944 confirmed cases; in 1995, that had fallen to 14,076; in 1996, the number of confirmed cases as presently assessed was 7,202. More pathological tests are to be completed, but that shows the trend.
 Mr. Hogg : I am answering the question. I have no reason to be less than candid with the House. I have
 1135
 Mr. Garnier : Is there sufficient storage for, or the capacity to dispose of, any cattle slaughtered under the accelerated slaughter scheme?
 Mr. Morley : It is true that most people in this country do not support the live export of animals for slaughter; so it was surprising to hear the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food at the National Farmers Union annual general meeting defending that practice. Does he not believe that most British farmers want their animals to be slaughtered in British slaughterhouses as near as possible to the point of production, so that value is added to British meat exports, rather than to be exported live for slaughter? The Minister also criticised the Labour party for receiving a substantial donation from the International Fund for Animal Welfare—a donation that we, unlike the Conservative party, made public. As the Conservatives have also accepted a substantial donation from the same organisation, will that donation now be repaid?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Geoffrey Lofthouse) : Order. I have been very tolerant, especially with the hon. Member for Ribble Valley (Mr. Evans). The Minister made a 55-minute speech and was given a reasonable hearing; the shadow Minister must be given the same.
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : Is there not a compelling case for an early debate on the operation of the law on data protection? Many of my constituents have contacted me, who are absolutely outraged at the invasion of their privacy, having received a letter from the Prime Minister. I should like the Leader of the House to comment on the letter from his colleague, the right hon. Member for Peterborough (Dr. Mawhinney), the chairman of the Conservative party, to my good friend and old colleague Harry Lees, who died 18 months ago. The letter, sent to the former Labour councillor and lifelong Labour party member, said that he could be an essential part of the Conservative election machine. Is not the law on data protection simply not working, given that people can receive such unsolicited letters from leading lights in the Conservative party?
 Mr. Harry Barnes  (North-East Derbyshire) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. The Select Committee on European Legislation deals with hundreds of documents, and part of its procedures is to determine whether European documents, directives and regulations have legal or political significance. If they have such significance, the Committee may recommend that they be debated either in Committee or on the Floor of the House. Should that not also apply to the pay review body documents, so that we can determine whether they have legal or political significance? If they do, the Prime Minister should surely make a statement so that we can question him on the seven documents.
 Mr. Harry Barnes  (North-East Derbyshire) : The thickness or otherwise of a Government report should not be what determines whether it should be launched with a statement in the House. The determining factor should be the importance of the measure. Many documents first launched in the House have been massive, including the report of the Scott inquiry. Should not the public sector pay documents be debated here, because this is the proper place to question whatever is contained in them?
 Mr. Barnes : Is not the beef ban still 100 per cent. in place? Following the Florence agreement, did not the Prime Minister come here and say that the ban would be lifted by November? The Minister has mentioned that he has not yet submitted the proposals on certified herds, despite the fact that that matter has been raised and discussed in the House on numerous occasions. The Government jump about from place to place—so much that one would think that the agreement was not from Florence but from Zebedee.
6.  Mr. Barnes : To ask the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food when he last met his European counterparts to discuss the lifting of the ban on United Kingdom beef exports. [13109]
 Mr. Harry Cohen  (Leyton) : Will the Leader of the House arrange for an urgent statement on the condition and circumstances of Mr. Ben Bekhiche Hamid, an Algerian on his 32nd day of hunger strike? He is currently locked up in a single cell in the hospital wing of Rochester prison. The care that he receives there amounts to an orderly occasionally coming along and peering through
 1151
 Mr. Harry Greenway  (Ealing, North) : Will my right hon. Friend provide time for a debate next week on early-day motion 458? That this House notes that, as a consequence of industrial action in Greece, British lorry drivers were detained at Patras, Greece; observes that a number of horses were held for eight days in lorries where their condition was pitiful; commends the work of the Horse Reserve Fund in offering prompt assistance and in ascertaining whether the horses had been watered; and deplores the fact that the horses then had to undergo further journeys of up to 1,500 miles prior to their slaughter.
 Mr. Harry Greenway : Will my hon. Friend make a vigorous protest to the Government of Greece about the fact that, during the recent lorry drivers' strike, horses were kept in horse boxes or lorries without food or water for eight days and then transported 1,500 miles to slaughter? Is it not time the Government of Greece and many other European Governments learned a bit about animal welfare?
Q4.  Mr. Harry Greenway : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Thursday 6 February [13135]
 Mr. Greenway : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the rise of nearly half a million in German unemployment in January is graphic proof that, as he said in Brussels this week, one signature on the European social chapter is half a million British signatures on the dole? Is not the British approach to competitiveness under the Government working, while the European social chapter, so advocated and loved by the Labour party, is not?
 Mr. Bellingham : Has the fisheries Minister heard recent reports of fishermen who have been out fishing in the Wash for sprat and have caught herring, which, under CFP rules, must be thrown back into the sea dead? Is that not yet another reason why the CFP needs root and branch reform?
 Mr. Iain Duncan Smith  (Chingford) : My right hon. Friend spoke earlier about a debate on the West Lothian
 1152
 Sir Irvine Patnick : I congratulate my right hon. and learned Friend on setting up the food safety committee. Will he now direct his attention to other food committees, and especially to the Spongiform Encephalopathy Advisory Committee? What will he do about that?
 Sir Ivan Lawrence  (Burton) : When my right hon. Friend considers the many calls so far for a debate on the constitution, will he take into account the fact that that subject is not only worthy of a debate in the Chamber, but is arguably the most important subject that we can debate as the custodians in trust of the future of Britain? Such a debate would reveal the wide differences that exist,
 1149
 Mr. Jacques Arnold  (Gravesham) : May I support the call of the Opposition spokesman, the hon. Member for Dewsbury (Mrs. Taylor), for a debate on the importance of stability in the finance of education institutions? During that debate, we could stress the anxieties of well over 1,000 of our grant-maintained school that they run the risk of finding that the parents' decision that the schools become grant-maintained will be overruled, resulting in up to 15 per cent. of their education funds being taken away from them and their classrooms, to be spent by bureaucrats in local education authorities.
 Mr. Arbuthnot : Does the hon. Gentleman not understand that his proposal for a review is causing instability in British industry? Does he not understand that?
 The Minister of State for Defence Procurement (Mr. James Arbuthnot) : No, the position is not clear. Would the hon. Gentleman exclude Eurofighter from a defence review—yes or no?
 Mr. Arbuthnot : It is perfectly clear that, next year and the year after, we plan to keep the defence budget exactly the same as it is, and that, the year after that, we plan to increase it a little. The hon. Gentleman could not say that, because he has promised the instability which would be caused by a defence review. He knows that the instability that the Labour party would offer the RAF is precisely the opposite of what it wants.
 Mr. Arbuthnot : We have had plenty of time for the hon. Gentleman to speak. I will give way to him one last time, but he must tell us what he proposes to leave in his defence review and what he proposes to leave out.
 Mr. Arbuthnot : No; I am winding up.
 Mr. Arbuthnot : We had not made any decision to buy 232. However, now that we have, we are promising a period of stability. We can promise a period of stability, whereas the Labour party promises a strategic defence review. Labour's defence review is a policy that dare not
 1236
 Mr. Arbuthnot : I will give way to the hon. Gentleman, now that he has been fed his lines by the hon. Member for Clackmannan.
 Mr. Arbuthnot : The hon. Member for South Shields has himself stated that there would be "painful consequences" from a defence review, and we need to know where those "painful consequences" would cut most deep.
 Mr. Arbuthnot : No, I am winding up.
 Mr. Arbuthnot : At least that is a helpful start. 1234
 Mr. Arbuthnot : Yes. The hon. and learned Gentleman is correct to suggest that we could buy a further 70 aircraft to fulfil that role. However, that decision does not need to be taken yet, and we have decided to take the 232, which will be the keystone of the RAF's future capability. 1235
 Mr. Arbuthnot : I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman has reacted in that way. The reason why I am treating his important comments in the way that I am is that, while it has been possible to produce a complete and detailed answer to the points that he raises, it would not provide a balanced winding-up speech for this debate to spend the 20 minutes or more that would be needed to cover the whole of the Chinook accident. I have details about which
 1229
 Mr. Arbuthnot : I see no reason why the response should not be put in the Library. As for a meeting with my hon. Friend the Minister for the Armed Forces, that is a matter that the hon. Gentleman will wish to raise with my hon. Friend.
 Mr. Arbuthnot : No, I do not agree with that. We expect to get very high quality out of the bid that we have accepted. 1230 1231
 Mr. Arbuthnot : I hear what my hon. Friend says. He makes an extremely important point, but several of my hon. Friends and other hon. Members are interested in the future large aircraft programme. My hon. Friend the Member for Wyre raised the matter, as he has done on several occasions. I know that he takes a close interest in it.
 The Minister of State for Defence Procurement (Mr. James Arbuthnot) : First, I echo the words of the Chairman of the Select Committee on Defence, my hon. Friend the Member for Romsey and Waterside (Mr. Colvin), in thanking Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Graydon for a long and extremely distinguished
 1228
 Mr. Arbuthnot : We must, of course, make our decisions very carefully indeed. We must make such calculations. We are making good progress in evaluating the options available to us, but there is more work to be done before all the conditions are satisfied. We will make an announcement once a decision has been taken. The mini-debate that there has just been among my hon. Friends shows how difficult that decision will be.
 Mr. Jeff Rooker  (Birmingham, Perry Barr) : Have a debate.
Q2.  Mr. Cummings : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Thursday 6 February. [13133]
 Mr. Cummings : Will the Prime Minister join me in congratulating the doctors and nursing staff at St. Benedict's hospice in Sunderland on their pioneering integrated assessment of palliative care, which has been acclaimed internationally? While recognising the importance of the voluntary and charitable sectors in supporting hospices, what steps is he taking to ensure a national policy on hospice care?
 Mr. John Greenway : Will my right hon. and learned Friend concede that the ban was wrong and unjustified in the first place; that the Government's actions since it was
 1133
 Mr. John Greenway  (Ryedale) : Does my hon. Friend agree that the RAF's success also depends on the skills of the men in the cockpit, and that pilot training is of the utmost importance? Will he join me in paying tribute to the work of RAF Linton-on-Ouse in my constituency, which, sadly, will be in a neighbouring constituency after the general election? Can he give an update on progress on the replacement for the Bulldog aircraft for the university air squadron? Does he agree that the deployment of the Firefly aircraft in elementary flight training has already proved successful? Would not it make sense for the same aircraft to be used for all elementary training?
11.  Mr. Heppell : To ask the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food what representations he has received in the past six months from consumer groups on his policies on food safety; and if he will make a statement. [13115]
 Mr. Heppell : Will the Minister confirm that, following the announcement of the intention to establish a food safety council, the majority of responses from consumer groups have said that the proposals are inadequate and do not go far enough? Will the Minister tell the House why those same consumer bodies were not consulted before the announcement instead of afterwards?
 The Prime Minister (Mr. John Major) : This morning, I presided at a meeting of the Cabinet and had meetings with ministerial colleagues and others. In addition to my duties in the House, I shall be having further meetings later today.
 The Prime Minister : I am grateful to the hon. Lady for giving me notice, an hour or so ago, that she proposed to ask that question and I have made some inquiries in the interim I understand that the health authority is
 1138
 The Prime Minister : As my hon. Friend knows, I made it clear when I went to Hong Kong last year that I wanted the ethnic minorities to be assured about their future. I am aware of the widespread concern that there has been in both Houses, as well as in Hong Kong, about their nationality status. My right hon. and learned Friend the Home Secretary has therefore decided that they can register as British citizens, with a right to abode here after 30 June. I have no doubt that the overwhelming majority—perhaps even all—will continue to reside in Hong Kong, where they will continue to have a right of abode, but they were potentially stateless and they now have a nationality.
 The Prime Minister : I suppose there was never a chance that the right hon. Gentleman was going to debate the real issues of today, on which the shadow Chancellor has landed him in such trouble. I will tell him about the— [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : Seven thousand, five hundred pounds for a meal with the Leader of the Opposition? The Leader of the Opposition seems deeply engaged in conversation. He is perhaps persuading the hon. Member for Dewsbury (Mrs. Taylor) to cough up and come to the luncheon.
 The Prime Minister : There is an increase of half a million in German unemployment. I doubt whether those half a million Germans consider that very successful. Business costs across Europe are costing jobs. For every £100 spent on wages in Britain, there is an extra £15 for non-wage costs. In Germany that figure is £31, in France £41 and in Italy £44. The hon. Member for Thurrock (Mr. Mackinlay) may shake his head, but those are the facts of the matter. That is why business men across Europe—including, for example, the head of the German firm BASF—have said in the past few days:
 "Britain is the best place in Europe to invest."
 The Prime Minister : The right hon. Gentleman will have to wait a few minutes for the decisions on public sector pay, which will be fair to the public sector and fair to the taxpayer. If he says that that is entirely affordable, why is he promising to put up tax by a penny in the pound to pay for the teachers? Why is he planning to do that? The right hon. Gentleman does not know what the decisions are, does not understand the issues and yet again asks questions based on utter nonsense.
 The Prime Minister : I can for once agree with the hon. Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner): he is not barracking from the Front Bench, and I doubt that he ever will be.
 The Prime Minister : I can also confirm to the right hon. Gentleman that there is not a single economy in Europe that can match our performance. If the right hon. Gentleman wishes to see debt rise further, and to see the British economy fail rather than succeed, he should follow the policies of the social model to which he is committed in Europe, with the results that we have seen in Europe.
 The Prime Minister : The right hon. Gentleman spent the whole of the recession encouraging us to spend money to assist people in need.  [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : I do not know the particular details of St. Benedict's. From what the hon. Gentleman says, its staff have clearly done an outstanding job. If that is true, I am happy to add my congratulations to them and to the hospice movement as a whole. I have had the opportunity of knowing personally of the remarkable work done by the hospice movement, which is truly astonishing. It has the Government's support and will continue to have it.
 The Prime Minister : I refer the hon. Gentleman to the answer I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend offers me an extremely enticing invitation, which I shall carefully consider. Were I to take the opportunity of visiting every part of the United Kingdom that had had substantial inward investment, it would probably take me until 1 May next year, because of the Government's remarkable success in encouraging inward investment, as a result of the policies that we have followed over recent years.
 The Prime Minister : I refer the hon. Gentleman to the reply I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : It is undeniable that the social model has contributed substantially to unemployment across Europe. The average level of unemployment in Europe is 3.5 per cent. above the rate here. My estimate of an extra half a million unemployed, were we to go down that route is, if anything, an under-estimate and not an over-estimate. A moment ago, I quoted the German head of BASF. I could of course have quoted the head of the Dutch business association who said:
 "The British way is best." "There is absolutely no need for a Europe wide set of rules."
 The Prime Minister : I refer my hon. Friend to the reply I gave some moments ago.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend points to the different costs of the social model in Europe and the impact that that has had on unemployment.
 The Prime Minister : The hon. Gentleman knows that I have called the Wirral, South by-election, and whatever ingenious ways he tries to produce to entice me to tell him the date of the general election, he will have to wait. The election in Wirral is proceeding.
 Mr. John McWilliam  (Blaydon) : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. McWilliam : The hon. Member for North Tayside (Mr. Walker) is quite right. People come from all over the world to learn how we deal with accidents—after they have happened. In the Select Committee, we discussed how to stop accidents happening.
 Mr. McWilliam : As a member of the Defence Select Committee, I know that the problem is not so much the way that the Select Committees were set up but the Armstrong doctrine, which was introduced to hamper Select Committees and which has no basis in any motion passed by the House.
 Mr. Spellar : The hon. Gentleman is missing the point. I was talking about the outsourcing of work to other companies which did not have a requirement to maintain apprenticeships. In an apprenticeship, young people learn a skill that enables them to be useful, productive and earning members of society. In some cases, they also have an effective role model—for the first time—in the skilled person with whom they are working. They have to work as part of a team and develop the social skills and discipline that may have been lacking. Apprenticeships provide a framework for young people to mature and move into adulthood, and that should not be disregarded. The cadet force plays a useful role, but it is not the only way to ensure that our young people get the chance to become useful members of society.
 Mr. Spellar : The figures that I quoted were to do with relative flying hours, and were therefore calculated on a ratio. I take the hon. Gentleman's point. As I said, we must be very careful with the data. We must examine the data and ensure that we are comparing like with like, but we should not disregard it. It has been obvious throughout the Minister's ministerial career that he is not interested in data or in evidence, whether it is on BSE or on matters with which he now deals. Evidence is not his strong point, although bluster and bravado certainly are. 1177 "we continue to work with partner nations and industry to establish a satisfactory basis for the United Kingdom to rejoin the European Future Large Aircraft project." "all three countries, including ourselves, have expressed great interest in the Future Large Aircraft." 1178 "received the most careful and sympathetic scrutiny, and I have thoroughly reviewed the costings associated with our proposal"—
 Mr. Spellar   rose
 Mr. Spellar : Yes.
 Mr. Spellar : As I rightly indicated, we support a reasonable, sensible and steady expansion, but not the attempt to have a cadet force in every school. As I am sure the hon. Gentleman will realise from his experience, the forces would not be able to handle such an expansion effectively, and nor would they wish to do so. We should not overdo the merits of the cadet forces, but we should recognise the contributions that the cadet forces can make, in their various manifestations, to forces intake and to society.
 Mr. Spellar : Contrary to what my hon. Friend may believe, it was not Shrivenham. He is anticipating my next point. "no significant arguments have emerged, nor have any new suggestions been made which have caused us to alter our original proposals. The costings continue to demonstrate that Camberley is the most cost effective option. I can therefore confirm that we shall establish the Joint Service Command and Staff college at Camberley, and that we plan to open it and close the colleges at Bracknell and Greenwich in late 1997."—[ Official Report, 744. "We intend to dispose of the Bracknell site by the end of 1999. The work so far has shown that Camberley is the most cost-effective and appropriate Ministry of Defence site for the college."[ Official Report, 169. "the conclusion that Camberley is the most cost-effective and appropriate of the sites examined remains robust." 1179 "We have examined Queen Elizabeth Park barracks at Guildford and the royal military academy Sandhurst as possible options for an interim site for the JSCSC as well as split site options, but work to date indicates that RAF Bracknell is likely to be the most appropriate and cost-effective temporary site."—[ Official Report, 443. "to open at Bracknell in September 1997 and immediate next steps include formal planning consultation with the local authority."—[ Official Report, 579.
 Mr. Spellar : I do not, because it is not true. The matter is self-evidently a political ploy. We should now move on in this debate, because Conservative Members are obviously incapable of understanding our position, although I have expressed it in plain English. I have made our position on the Eurofighter clear in my statement, but that does not suit Conservative Members' party political purposes. It is a game played by those in a party which is so far behind in the opinion polls—[ Interruption. Interruption.
 Mr. Spellar : I had to go out of sequence to deal with that issue—which Conservative Members could not wait
 1175 Scotland on Sunday, 1176
 Mr. Spellar : Equally, I am sure that the hon. Gentleman will accept that if we can find ways in which to improve our record, we should do it. The Minister should not merely, in a cavalier fashion, disregard the proposal, which has been made not only by Opposition Members but, after hearing evidence from the RAF, by the Defence Select Committee. It is worth examining.
 Mr. Spellar : That question demonstrates precisely why I say that the Minister should examine the subject and consider an inquiry into it. I am not a professional airman, any more than I am a professional engineer, and neither is the Minister. However, if the US air force believes that it has achieved its lower accident rate because of the scope of its risk management, surely we should examine its practice.
 Mr. Spellar : The Minister is setting up Aunt Sallies and then being frightened by them. As he is aware, the issue may well arise before the defence review is completed. The question is therefore whether we will order Eurofighter when the decision must be taken, and I have given our response to that question. The Minister, quite wrongly, is creating an issue. The consequences of the position adopted by him and by other Conservative Members will be to encourage those in Germany who want to undermine Eurofighter, and they are playing a very serious game. They are playing that game not only over Eurofighter but over defence exports and British companies.
 Mr. Spellar : The hon. Lady must recognise that negotiations are currently proceeding with the German Government. That is the position of Ministers, and I have made clear the position of Her Majesty's Opposition who will take those decisions after the election.
 Mr. Spellar : The hon. Gentleman recognises that the Government have reduced the number of aircraft from 250 to 232 Let me make it clear: we are committed to the programme as it stands currently. We will order Eurofighter, provided that there is continuing agreement
 1174
 Mr. Spellar : The hon. Gentleman must accept that that issue was raised in the last two rounds of defence questions, and my hon. Friend the Member for Torfaen (Mr. Murphy) and I responded to it. We agree that Eurofighter is vital if we are to meet the future requirements of our armed forces. That is why Labour has consistently backed the project, and why we recognise its importance for the future of our defence and our security needs in the 21st century. It is irresponsible for Conservative Members to try to create uncertainties in the electorate by attempting to undermine our position.
 Mr. John Spellar  (Warley, West) : Mr. Deputy Speaker, unashamed and unabashed, I rise to respond to 50 minutes of uncharacteristically reasonable discourse from the Minister of State. I thought that I might have to cut out some of the more offensive parts of my speech,
 1172
 Mr. Spellar : I shall turn to Eurofighter in a moment. Does the hon. Member for Canterbury (Mr. Brazier) believe that he is doing the Eurofighter cause any good by raising that question in Session after Session when Conservative Back Benchers have received comprehensive answers about it? He must understand that there are on-going debates in Germany, that fine decisions are being taken there, that difficulties are being faced, and that we may get a decision in March. In the light of those developments, does he think that it is helpful to try to generate confusion and uncertainty in the minds of our partners overseas?
 Mr. Spellar : That is rubbish.
 Mr. John Spellar  (Warley, West) : I had intended to open my speech by saying that my hon. Friend the Member for South Shields (Dr. Clark), the shadow spokesman on defence, greatly regrets that he cannot be here because he has a serious bout of flu. I am sure that, on reflection, the Minister would not have raised the matter as he did if he had been aware of that.
 Mr. Spellar : Rubbish.
 Mr. Spellar : Is that a spending pledge?
 Mr. Spellar : Conservative Front Benchers do.
3.  Mr. Whittingdale : To ask the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food what research his Ministry has (a) commissioned and (b) evaluated into different methods of sea defence. [13105]
 Mr. Whittingdale : I thank my hon. Friend for that answer. May I also thank him for taking the trouble to come to my constituency to see the experiment in managed setback that is taking place at Tollesbury? He will be aware from his visit that there is concern in the farming community about the possible adoption of managed setback as a widespread method of sea defence. Will he assure me that no decision will be taken until there has been a full and proper evaluation of the costs and benefits of such a policy?
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : I feel like an aging Lothario: I need more and more inspiration to perform, and in parliamentary terms we have had that inspiration from my hon. Friend the Minister of State for the Armed Forces. There is nothing as exciting as a convert, and he certainly has the fervour of a convert. There is no one as fervent as an ebullient ex-hussar speaking up for air power, and he did so most effectively. "Aut portare aut pugnare prompti", 1204 "Time spent in reconnaissance is never wasted." "to get there fastest with the mostest". 1205 "The aircraft has a payload of 157,000 lbs." "It can take off from a 7,600 foot airfield, fly 2,400 nautical miles and land on a small, austere airfield in 3,000 ft. It can be refuelled in flight and its ferry range is 4,300 nautical miles." 1206
 Mr. Wilkinson : McDonnell Douglas.
 Mr. Wilkinson : There will still be immense pressures on the defence budget and a critical need for new equipment, such as a future medium-range air-to-air missile, the ASTOR, and ultimately ballistic missile defence. In those circumstances, is it not much more cost-effective to buy a proven aircraft, the C-17, which has shown itself to fulfil the role admirably, probably two or three times better than a future large aircraft ever could, than to invest development and production money in a new aircraft that is only marginally better than the C-130J? Airbus can build a new aircraft—a Jumbo equivalent, the 3XX, for example—but we should not put money in a multinational programme when a proven aircraft already exists and is in service with the US air force.
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : Can my hon. Friend confirm what he has told me in writing: that Brigadier Holmes, whom we warmly welcome to that important role, could eventually be replaced by a Royal Auxiliary Air Force officer or an officer from the Royal Naval Reserve—in other words, that it is a tri-service reservist appointment?
 Mr. Wilkinson : My hon. Friend made a most important point about potential threats and referred to the crescent of crisis in the Islamic world. Is it not therefore particularly important that we pursue our studies into ballistic missile defence in depth, assiduously and with some urgency? A ballistic missile attack on Europe could be launched from that crescent of crisis—Iraq and the littoral and Mahgreb countries—if there were a decisive change to an aggressive form of dictatorship in any of those countries.
 Mr. Julian Brazier  (Canterbury) : I am listening carefully to the hon. Gentleman, and I thank him for giving way. While he is on the subject of damage to industry and the impact of new equipment on the RAF, will he give the House an absolutely straight answer tonight? Would a Labour Government include the future
 1173
 Mr. Mans : I agree with the hon. Gentleman that we must send the right messages to the Germans about the future of that important European project at this critical time. The Secretary of State for Defence has said that we wish to proceed to the production investment phase. Does the hon. Gentleman agree that he could send a clear message to the Germans tonight by confirming that the Labour party would exclude Eurofighter from its defence review?
 Mr. Keith Mans  (Wyre) : My hon. Friend knows how much I and many others welcome this appointment, not only because of the quality of the individual, but because it will allow the reserve forces to have a strong voice at the centre, and that will be a recognition of the increased contribution that they make to the country's defence in every aspect of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force.
 Mr. Mans   rose
 Mr. Mans : The hon. Gentleman will be aware that the RAF's apprentice scheme was designed to produce apprentices who would become senior, high-quality non-commissioned officers later in their careers. The RAF is not cutting technical training. It is providing technical training for 17 and 18-year-olds and it is also providing leadership training as their careers develop. With that information, will the hon. Gentleman modify slightly his latter comments about trained personnel in the Air Force?
 Mr. Mans : Does my hon. Friend agree that, to provide our heavy lift requirements, we must analyse the different
 1232
 Mr. Keith Mans  (Wyre) : It is a great pleasure to speak in this annual debate on the RAF which, this year, has come a little earlier than on previous occasions. I hope that the hon. Member for Clackmannan (Mr. O'Neill) will not mind if I do not follow him too far down the route that he chose. However, I and others who have served as aircrew in the past sympathise with the families concerned, and know how they must feel. Split-second decisions or losses of concentration—if that is what happened—can have such results. It shows more than anything that when we operate aircraft of that sort, the pilots must be as well trained as possible and their equipment must be as serviceable as possible. I shall return to that subject, as it has some relevance to that tragic Chinook accident. As the hon. Member for Clackmannan said, we shall never know the final facts of the incident. 1193 1194 1195 1196 1197
 Mr. Hughes : Will the Prime Minister try to answer the question that he failed to answer on Tuesday? Can he give a categorical assurance that the Wirral, South by-election will take place on 27 February—yes or no?
Q3.  Mr. Kevin Hughes : To ask the Prime Minister if he will list his official engagements for Thursday 6 February. [13134]
 Mr. Malcolm Bruce  (Gordon) : Will the Leader of the House make Government time available to debate the important issue of public sector pay—on which we are expecting to hear an announcement in a few minutes—particularly because of the strongly heralded view that an increase is likely to be staged, despite the Government's own forecasts fully budgeting for a 3.3 per cent. increase for nurses? The difference between what has been budgeted and what has been recommended for teachers' pay is about £80 million, which is well within the amount that could be saved in central Government Departments.
 Sir Mark Lennox-Boyd : Will my right hon. Friend spare a moment to compare the position of a manufacturer in my constituency with that of his German competitor, who happens to be a friend? The German manufacturer in Bavaria is required to give each employee, every year, 29 days holiday, and an additional 13 days holiday for the religious holidays, which is more than eight weeks holiday in the year. Furthermore, it is sometimes the habit for people to arm themselves with a medical certificate and spend three weeks at Baden Baden.
1.  Sir Mark Lennox-Boyd : To ask the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food if he will make a statement on the implementation of the selective cull scheme in the north-west. [13102]
 Sir Mark Lennox-Boyd : It seems probable that farmers in the north-west will have to import cattle to replace those taken out by the selective cull. Bearing in mind the fact that bovine spongiform encephalopathy exists in other countries, can my hon. Friend assure the House about the health status of any cattle that may be imported?
 Mr. O'Neill : I am grateful to the hon. and learned Gentleman. I should happily step back from his expertise in such matters and give him the Floor, because he is a distinguished member of the Scottish Bar. What I have to say about the evidence will become more apparent in a minute or two. 1190 "Nevertheless, an unforeseen technical malfunction of the type being experienced by the Chinook HC2, which would not necessarily have left any physical evidence, remained a possibility, and could not be discounted." "It could not be proven that the aircraft flew in a straight line … to the point of impact". "The Board based its findings on logical argument derived from the limited evidence … There were many potential causes of the accident and … the Board was unable to determine a definite cause … the Board could not avoid a degree of speculation". "The pre-impact serviceability of the aircraft could not be positively verified". "the possibility of control system jam could not be positively dismissed … most of the attachment inserts on both flight control system pallets had detached … with little evidence to eliminate the possibility of pre-impact detachment". 1191 1192
 Mr. O'Neill : Before the Minister goes on, I have to tell him that that was a most disappointing response. I got in touch with his office yesterday and sent him a fax detailing the points I was going to raise today; I did so with the express purpose of getting the Minister to respond to those points today. I think that 16 to 24 hours' notice of points to be raised is more than enough to allow any Government Department to deal with them. I took the trouble to do that because I did not want to be palmed off in the way that I have been this evening. That is not a fair way to treat the House or to deal with a matter of such gravity in a debate of this kind, which represents one of the few opportunities that Back Benchers have to raise issues of this nature.
 Mr. O'Neill : I do not want to take up the Minister's time and I understand his point, but he will understand my frustration. All I would say is that I take his point and I would hope that, at the appropriate time and after I have received his response, I shall be able to bring the relatives to meet the Minister for the Armed Forces to discuss the matter. I should like to think that will be possible and that the Minister's response to me will be put in the Library and be available for anyone else to read.
 Mr. O'Neill : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. O'Neill : That is no excuse; will he give way?
 Mr. O'Neill : I want to make progress. My comments so far are not the purpose of my speech. I do not think that we need to talk about the matter in quite such a vein
 1188
 Mr. O'Neill : I have not participated in a defence debate with the hon. Lady before, although I recall that when I was doing the work in which my hon. Friends on the Front Bench are engaged, she was pushing prams for peace, or something like that. Perhaps she just has difficulty understanding things. I shall explain again very simply. With the exception of the point about the TSR2, the hon. Member for North Tayside (Mr. Walker), with whom I have crossed swords on many occasions, would have made it clear if he had not understood. 1189
 Mr. O'Neill : As the hon. and learned Gentleman says, the arguments have not changed. One thing that has changed, though, is that  The Daily Telegraph "a reasonably intelligent sixth-form essay". 1187 The Daily Telegraph
 Mr. O'Neill : The TSR2 was a source of disappointment to many in the services—probably when the hon. Gentleman was serving in them. I do not think that what happened then is in any way similar to the Eurofighter or that the instances are in any way parallel. [ Interruption.
 Mr. Martin O'Neill  (Clackmannan) : Although it is some time since I have spoken in a defence debate, sitting on these Benches the years seem to melt away, and very little has changed.
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : The arguments have not changed.
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : If I may say so, the hon. Gentleman is giving a lucid explanation of the role of the fatal accident inquiry in Scots law, particularly of the role of the sheriff, Sir Stephen Young. Is he aware—I think he will be—that in a fatal accident inquiry all interested parties are entitled to be represented, so the evidence upon which the sheriff draws his conclusion has been open to cross-examination by every party, every department and every institution with an interest in the outcome of the inquiry?
 Mr. Menzies Campbell  (Fife, North-East) : The Minister will be aware that the Red Arrows fly the Hawk aircraft. There have been recent reports of cracks in that aircraft. Can he say a little about that problem and the steps that have been taken to remedy it?
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : I am grateful to the Minister for giving way, and for his felicitous remarks. He may recall that during the debate I mentioned reports that Germany was considering acquiring 40 Eurofighters in the multi-role form. Has the Ministry of Defence considered that option?
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : Do I understand from the approach that the hon. Lady has adopted in the past moment or two that, so far as she is concerned, the United Kingdom should sell arms to anyone who is willing to buy them? Should we not have some regard to the history of human rights in some of the countries to which we sell arms, and not bear in mind our experience of selling arms to Saddam Hussein?
 Mr. Menzies Campbell  (Fife, North-East) : The hon. Member for Wyre (Mr. Mans) speaks with a great deal of common sense in these debates, not least because he has direct experience. His contribution to debates on the Royal Air Force and to the work of the Defence Select Committee is invaluable. It is therefore a great pleasure to follow him on this occasion. 1198
 Mr. Campbell : As the hon. Member for Motherwell, North (Dr. Reid) points out, most of us are still delivering the same speeches.
 Mr. Campbell : I hope that the hon. Gentleman will forgive me if I do not intervene in what seems to be a private fight.
 Mr. Campbell : I do not want to comment on the propensity of Conservative Members to expose themselves in one way or another. However, the idea that the Opposition will be embarrassed by constant debates on defence is misconceived. 1199 The Daily Telegraph 1200 1201 1202
 Mr. Campbell : Indeed. I beg the hon. Gentleman's pardon.
 Mr. Campbell : I do not mean to deprecate what the hon. Gentleman says. I understand his point about the national interest. He must speak for his party. I speak for mine, and I point to my record of commitment for the Eurofighter project over several years as a justification for the view that the project must proceed, for the reasons that I have outlined. 1203
5.  Mr. Michael Brown : To ask the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food if he will make a statement on the progress in the intergovernmental conference on raising the standards of animal welfare across the European Union. [13107]
 Mr. Brown : I am glad to hear that answer. Does my hon. Friend agree that there is much opposition in this country to the export of any live animals? In recognising that that trade is however, likely to continue, will she assure us that the progress being made in the intergovernmental conference will result in other European countries applying the same high standards on the issue as we have?
 Mr. Colvin : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. The Select Committee has addressed that issue and made recommendations. The question is whether the European countries do the development work on anti-ballistic missile defence systems themselves or in concert with our American allies. I believe that transatlantic co-operation on this is a must because of the enormous costs and it is a good way to continue the development of the two-way street in the exchange of technology and manufacture between us and our most important allies, the United States of America. 1184 1185 1186
 Mr. Michael Colvin  (Romsey and Waterside) : While the hon. Member for Warley, West (Mr. Spellar) has been a defence spokesman, he has learned that attack is the best
 1181
 Mr. Colvin : That is a useful conclusion to my remarks on the subject. 1182 1183
 Mr. Colvin : I thank the hon. Gentleman. I should like to make one other point. One has to be careful about knocking copy from countries outside the United Kingdom, especially from the United States. I recall that when the Harrier, or AV8B, first went into service in the United States, there were many comments about a higher rate of crashes. The answer was quite simple: the aircraft was so popular with American pilots that they were flying it two and a half times more than they were flying their own aircraft.
 Mr. Michael Colvin  (Romsey and Waterside) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 The Secretary of State for Defence (Mr. Michael Portillo) : Did the Labour leaders know?
 Sir Michael Spicer  (South Worcestershire) : As the Opposition seem bent on breaking up the United Kingdom, may we have Government time as soon as possible to debate the future of the British constitution, and could the debate be led by my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister?
 Mr. Michael Stephen  (Shoreham) : On aircrew training, my hon. Friend knows that Thomson Training and Simulation employs many people in Sussex, including some of my constituents. He also knows that it can provide aircrew training facilities for the RAF's new EH101 and Chinook helicopters. Is he aware that if the contract was awarded to Thomson in Britain, it would create 200 British jobs and provide a firm base for the export by Britain of high technology?
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : The Prime Minister made an excellent speech in Brussels on
 1150
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : As my hon. Friend will know, British Aerospace operates in my constituency and my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State visited Samlesbury only last Friday. Is it not right that, in all the operations mentioned by the Minister, we have not only the best pilots, the best engineers and the best back-up teams, but the best equipment? Does he agree that part of that best equipment will be the European fighter aircraft? Does he also agree that, if the Labour party carried out the threat contained in its 1993 conference decision to cut defence expenditure by £4.5 billion, that could jeopardise the European fighter aircraft—either the whole project could be cancelled, or the number of aircraft could be reduced from 230 to a minimal number?
 Mr. Nigel Evans : The hon. Gentleman will know that the project is vital to my constituents who are involved in the production of European fighter aircraft. Will he assure them that those aircraft would not be part of any future Labour Government review, and that the 230 aircraft that have been ordered would not be scaled down at any time under a Labour Government?
 Mr. Deva : Does my right hon. Friend join me in welcoming the inspired decision to give passports to 5,000 stateless south Asians in Hong Kong? Does he recognise that those families are major wealth creators in Hong Kong and that, as British passport holders, they will enable Britain to become not only the enterprise centre of Europe, but the enterprise centre of the whole world?
 Mr. Ashdown : I was interested to hear the Prime Minister admit in his previous answer that the ethnic minorities in Hong Kong were potentially going to be left stateless, as he specifically denied that in answer to a question that I asked him along those lines three months ago. [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh."] Yes, he did. 1140
 Mr. Paddy Tipping  (Sherwood) : Will the Leader of the House respond to a request already made, to make time available to discuss the crisis of funding in further education? Surely it cannot be acceptable that Education Ministers have written to vice-principals, colleges are at risk of bankruptcy—some look set to lose £1 million—yet hon. Members have had no chance to debate the matter.
 Mr. Nicholls : Does my hon. Friend agree that many advances in the treatment of animals—those in relation to veal crates and transport conditions, for example—have been achieved in the teeth of European opposition? Does she also agree that, if we had not been content to be isolated in Europe, we would not have achieved those advances, whereas the Leader of the Opposition is not prepared to be isolated in Europe?
 Mr. Tyler : The Minister may have seen early-day motion 280, which I tabled more than two months ago and which gained all-party support from Members. Does she accept the view of the Consumers Association published in today's  Which?,
 Mr. Tyler : And segregation.
 Mr. Peter Atkinson : When my right hon. and learned Friend meets his counterparts in Europe, will he give them the latest figures on BSE? Can he confirm that, last year, there was a further and dramatic decline in the number of reported cases?
 Mr. Peter Bottomley  (Eltham) : Will my right hon. Friend take further the matters raised by the shadow Leader of the House and my hon. Friend the Member for South Worcestershire (Sir M. Spicer), who asked, respectively, for a Supply day and a debate on constitutional arrangements? Will it be possible in the next two weeks to consider a matter that has been lying around for the past two decades—whether, under some people's proposals, a Scottish Member of Parliament would be able to vote on English education but not on Scottish education?
 Mr. Luff : Is my hon. Friend aware that all the farmers whom I meet in Worcestershire are rightly proud of the high standards of animal welfare that they maintain on their farms? Would not Opposition Members and animal welfare groups be better employed supporting the British Government in their efforts to ensure that the same standards of animal welfare are maintained on the other side of the channel?
 Mr. Peter Luff  (Worcester) : May I add my voice to the general chorus of calls for a debate on the constitution,
 1154
 Mr. Peter Robinson  (Belfast, East) : I follow the Minister's argument and support it strongly. Does he agree that a crucial element is surveillance and targeting capability, and that the ASTOR airborne stand-off radar programme will be instrumental in providing that for the Royal Air Force? Does he believe that the time limits set by the Department—I understand that a technical assessment was meant to be completed by the end of January—have been met and that the contract can be awarded by October? It is important to the RAF and is a priority to the Department, but it is also very important for jobs in Belfast and elsewhere in the United Kingdom.
 Mr. Peter Thurnham  (Bolton, North-East) : Can the Leader of the House find time for a debate specifically about children's health, including the dental health of children in the north-west? Bolton's children now have the worst teeth in the country, with twice the national average amount of decay. Should we not debate the need to improve children's health?
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan  (Cardiff, West) : Does the Leader of the House agree that we should find time to debate the
 1153
 Mr. Richard Tracey  (Surbiton) : Will my right hon. Friend consider a debate to celebrate the overwhelming success of the private pension fund industry, which contrasts so well with the shambles in France and Germany? In such a debate, we could point out the implications for pensioners of the idiotic proposals for a windfall tax on the privatised utilities, as so many of the privatised utilities' shareholders are, of course, pension funds.
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : Is the Leader of the House aware of the mounting dismay around the world, from Cambodia to India, Russia—which has lost many icons—and eastern Europe, about heritage treasures turning up on the art markets of Frankfurt, Amsterdam, New York and London? In those circumstances, should there not be a statement next week about the role and responsibilities of the Department of Trade and Industry on what has apparently been revealed about Sotheby's? The problem goes far beyond one firm. It relates to the international art market and Britain's position in it. Could we have clarification of the government's supervisory responsibilities in that matter?
 Mr. Dalyell : The Minister referred to best design. Is not the best design of coastal defence actually the sand dune? What is being done to protect sand dunes, especially from those who want sand for commercial purposes?
 Mr. Boswell : The hon. Gentleman is on to a good point in respect of particular parts of our coastline. I have seen some fascinating activity designed to build up sand dunes
 1127
 Mr. Boswell : I very much enjoyed visiting my hon. Friend's constituency and looking at the fascinating managed setback experiment at Tollesbury creek. However, as my hon. Friend says, it is an experiment. It is part of our effort to inform ourselves on the various options available which will be considered as part of the Essex shoreline management plan. As a native of that county, I am conscious of the fact that, with 250 miles of sea walls, it will not be the automatic expectation or recourse to retreat and avoid our responsibilities. We shall consider the appropriate solutions, having regard to various criteria and informed by research. There is no hidden agenda.
 The Minister for Rural Affairs (Mr. Tim Boswell) : The Ministry invests more than £1.5 million annually on strategic research aimed at ensuring a better understanding of coastal processes and stimulating the use of new techniques in the design of flood and coastal defences. We also issue guidance to operating authorities.
 Mr. Baldry : I think that the hon. Gentleman is confusing two schemes. The selective, accelerated cull has only just started—the tracing has just begun. As soon as the animals are taken, they will be slaughtered and incinerated. The hon. Gentleman is confusing that with the over-30-months scheme, under which, to get rid of the backlog of 1.3 million cattle, it was necessary to store some carcases to maximise rendering capacity.
 Mr. Baldry : The veterinary rules are harmonised throughout the Community. If we come across any examples of other member states not being up to standard, it is important that we deal with them. The House recognises that we have to get on with the selective cull to fulfil the Florence agreement. That means that farmers must have replacement animals. I hope that the majority can come from the United Kingdom herd.
 Mr. Baldry : It is likely that a large proportion of the replacement animals will be bred in the United Kingdom. There is already evidence of farmers rearing more animals to replace culled stock. Trade in live animals between member states and the importation of live animals from third countries are subject to detailed animal health rules, most of which are harmonised within the European Community. The rules lay down precise conditions for trade, including a requirement that consignments are accompanied by health certification, signed by an official veterinarian in the exporting country.
 The Minister of State, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mr. Tony Baldry) : A scheme booklet will be available shortly and will be distributed to beef and dairy farmers, setting out the arrangements for the selective cull throughout Great Britain.
 Mr. Baldry : We always have difficulty with mixed fisheries such as we have around our coasts. The whole question of discards causes understandable offence and we must constantly try to find policies that minimise the need for discards.
 Mr. Baldry : It was for exactly those reasons that I pressed successfully in the Fisheries Council for measures to reduce herring mortality in industrial fisheries. Just as importantly, I pressed to include industrial fisheries in the first tranche of activities, subject to satellite monitoring, and insisted that industrial fisheries had a much higher position in the next round of decommissioning. It is crazy that the Commission's proposals for decommissioning did not adequately have regard to industrial fishing and its impact in the North sea and elsewhere.
 Mr. Baldry : Everyone agrees, including Emma Bonino, that the common fisheries policy needs reforming. I welcomed the opportunity of meeting Essex fishermen with my hon. Friend. I am considering the points that they put to me and if, as I suspect, I conclude that different arrangements need to be put in place on the temporary closure of the North sea sole fishery, I shall consult the industry. I am well aware of the problems facing non-sector fisherman in Essex and elsewhere, which is why we introduced, in 1995, underpinning or guaranteed minimum quota allocations for non-sector fisheries, including North sea sole and cod. For 1997, I have extended underpinning to a wider range of stocks important to non-sector fishermen, such as North sea plaice and whiting, because I want to ensure that the fishermen of Essex and elsewhere have a viable future.
 Mr. Baldry : I have recently received a wide range of representations about reforming the European fisheries policy, including proposals from my hon. Friend the Member for Basildon (Mr. Amess).
 Mr. Baldry : Yes. I do not see the accelerated slaughter scheme in any way making more difficult our disposal problems with the over-30-months scheme.
 Mr. Baldry : It is helpful to remember that any cattle that exhibit clinical signs of BSE are disposed of immediately by direct incineration, and that specified bovine material is removed from all scheme cattle and sent direct for rendering, so no specified bovine material has been placed in cold storage. The use of cold storage was necessary to clear the backlog of OTMS cattle as quickly as possible and to maximise the use of a limited rendering capacity. Speed was of the essence to avoid potential animal welfare problems on farms as winter drew near, and to pave the way for a start to selective culling. The backlog is now cleared; no more material is being put into cold store, and clearly we shall get rid of the material in cold storage and get it rendered as speedily as is humanly possible.
 Mr. Baldry : To speed up clearance of the backlog of cattle that were awaiting slaughter under the over-30-months scheme, some 69,000 tonnes of cattle remains, excluding specified bovine material, were placed in cold storage pending the availability of rendering capacity. In addition, dry storage is being used for scheme material that has already been rendered pending its destruction.
 Mr. Tony Banks : Before the Minister starts patting herself and her colleagues on the head, will she tell me why we are exporting eight and 10-week-old piglets to Spain and France, especially when we know how intelligent those creatures are? What is happening about leghold traps? What progress is being made? I understand that Commissioner Brittan is ensuring that the ban on such traps will not be introduced. What is he doing for animal welfare in the European Union?
 Mr. Blair : Can the Prime Minister confirm that, since he became Prime Minister, he has doubled the national debt?
 Mr. Blair : Perhaps I can quote the right hon. Gentleman again. Does he not recall saying that he would be the Prime Minister who would balance the budget? Does he not recognise—[HON. MEMBERS: "Oh."]
 1139 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Blair : Perhaps for once we can get a straight answer to a straight question. We now pay out on interest payments on debt every year more than we spend on law and order and transport put together. Can the Prime Minister just answer that simple question? Can he confirm that, since he became Prime Minister—he is the only Prime Minister since the war of which this can be said—he has doubled the national debt? Yes or no?
 Mr. Newton : In other words, a debate to see for the umpteenth time whether we can get an answer to the West Lothian question—
 Mr. Newton : Is the hon. Gentleman promising me from a sedentary position that were the Opposition to have a Supply day, they would choose to debate constitutional matters? I should like that in writing.
 Mr. Newton : Without in any way accepting for a moment the thrust of the hon. Gentleman's argument,
 1147
 Mr. Newton : As to the Police Bill  [Lords], 1145
 Mr. Newton : If I remember rightly, last week, much the same point was made to me by my right hon. Friend the Member for Honiton (Sir P. Emery), the Chairman of the Committee. I gave what I described as a "cautiously sympathetic" reply. I hope that my right hon. Friend the Member for Northavon (Sir J. Cope), who is a distinguished member of the Committee, will similarly accept both my sympathy and my caution.
 Mr. Newton : My hon. Friend will be aware that, in recent weeks, suggestions for such a debate have been made on a number of occasions, and I have said that I shall consider them as sympathetically as possible. However, he will also have heard the business that I have announced for the week ahead, and he will be aware that there is a great deal of very important legislation on which we need to make progress.
 Mr. Newton : If there is any confusion about what the Liberal Democrats have said, I can suppose only that it is because of confusion about what the Liberal Democrats say about that and other matters. On his question on public sector pay, the hon. Gentleman will not expect me to comment in advance of the publication of the reports and the Government's recommendations.
 Mr. Newton : I am sure that the hon. Gentleman will be aware that the practice—for as long as I can remember—has been for the information on those very complex matters to be made available by written answer. He will also know that the reports in question, taken together, are about 3 in thick, and require considerable study. I am sure that he will get down to his homework as soon as he possibly can.
 Mr. Newton : I shall not attempt to add to what I have already said, but I shall ensure that my right hon. and learned Friend's attention is drawn to my hon. Friend's remarks.
 The Lord President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mr. Tony Newton) : The business for next week will be as follows: [Lords]. [Lords]. Official Report. Official Report. [Wednesday 12 February: European Standing Committee A Relevant European Community document: 5217/97, Commission Report on Raw Tobacco. Relevant European Legislation Committee report: HC 36-xi (1996–97). European Standing Committee B Relevant European Community document: 5147/96, Takeover Bids. Relevant European Legislation Committee reports: HC 51-xxix (1995–96) and HC 51-xiv (1995–96). Wednesday 19 February: European Standing Committee A Relevant European Community document: 11419/96, Future Noise Policy. Relevant European Legislation Committee report: HC 36-xi (1996–97).]
 Mr. Newton : The hon. Gentleman will, with his characteristic fairness, understand that I do not think it right to comment on a particular case from the Dispatch Box. His more general point is clearly reasonable and I shall make sure that it is brought to the attention of the President of the Board of Trade.
 Mr. Newton : I share my hon. Friend's views on the merits of my right hon. Friend's speech on the importance of the point that he has made. I shall continue to bear in mind his request for a debate.
 Mr. Newton : My hon. Friend the Minister of State, Home Office made a general statement on the matter last week. I cannot add to what she said, but I shall bring the hon. Gentleman's concerns to her attention.
 Mr. Newton : I have not had an opportunity to see the programme to which my hon. Friend refers, although I am aware of his concern about it. I shall make sure that I see it if I can. I agree with him about the importance of the problem—indeed, I chair the Cabinet Sub-Committee on Drug Misuse.
 Mr. Newton : My hon. Friend, once again, makes a very good point. Not only do we not know on whom the windfall tax would fall or at what level it would be levied, but we certainly have not heard about its inevitable difficulties, disadvantages and potential losses for either consumers or shareholders, including, as he says, the interests of many pensioners.
 Mr. Newton : As to the latter point, I am sure that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Health will examine the allegations, as they must be described, which the hon. Lady has made. She asked about timing. I am not in a position to give an exact date, but I do not think that it is very far ahead.
 Mr. Newton : I gave a reasonably clear answer to the hon. Member for Dewsbury (Mrs. Taylor) earlier in these exchanges and I cannot add to it. I am quite sure that when my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Transport is in a position to make proposals, he will set out clearly the advantages to Londoners and all tube users.
 Mr. Newton : My hon. Friend asked an ingenious variation of what has long been known as the West Lothian question, which as I have said before, ought now to be known as the Linlithgow question. I entirely share his view of the importance of those matters and I have said several times that I am bearing in mind sympathetically the request for a debate.
 Mr. Newton : My hon. Friend knows very well that the British Government have consistently taken the lead in pressing for improvements in animal welfare throughout Europe. He has played a worthy part in ensuring that. In respect of his early-day motion, I should inform him that the International League for the Protection of Horses is to be commended for the prompt way in which it sought to help the Bulgarian horses recently detained in Greece during their journey to Italy.
 Mr. Newton : I endorse what my hon. and learned Friend says about the importance of that matter. Given the range of proposals that the Opposition appear to have made and the uncertainties about the details, I believe that they should consider using an Opposition day for such a debate.
 Mr. Newton : The Government are not frightened of a debate on any aspect of their policies or priorities, which they believe to be right. It has been the convention, for as long as I can remember, that details of the Government's proposals and the reports are given in the way that is being done this afternoon. That is reasonable and sensible.
 Mr. Newton : My hon. Friend draws attention to what sounds like an important point. Given those at whom the point was directed, the matter should perhaps be considered by Opposition Front Benchers.
 Mr. Newton : I am not in a position immediately to give the hon. Lady the statistic that she requested, but I shall make some inquiries. On the more general point, she will know that we have made it clear that we ourselves are not satisfied with the fact that the procedures of the European Union, which can involve delays in Brussels and delays in transmission from Brussels, do not always enable us to scrutinise legislation here as effectively as we and the Committee would wish. We shall make every effort to ensure that matters are improved.
 Mr. Newton : The hon. Gentleman will be aware that my right hon. and learned Friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland has been having discussions with, I think, all the Northern Ireland parties about that matter. Obviously, we hope that it will prove possible to achieve the necessary consensus that would normally be sought before proceeding with such changes. The hon. Gentleman knows that I should like the changes to proceed as soon as possible.
 Mr. Newton : I made some reply—I think a reasonable one, as always—to the hon. Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner) and I cannot add to that.
 Mr. Newton : I have long held the view that that would indeed be a fruitful subject for debate, although I cannot go beyond what I have said earlier on the matter. I should certainly wish to listen to my right hon. Friend's speech, were it possible for such a debate to take place.
 Mr. Newton : The Government have made it clear that they are undertaking effective action in the wake of that appalling tragedy. Just as I told my hon. Friend the Member for South-West Cambridgeshire (Sir A. Grant) that I would bring his points to the attention of my right hon. and learned Friend the Home Secretary, so I shall bring the different points made by the hon. Gentleman to his attention.
 Mr. Newton : Not for the first time, my hon. Friend makes a very good point. It is underlined by something on
 1148
 Mr. Newton : The hon. Gentleman implied that—unhappily—there are, of course, variations in such a statistic, which depend very much on the level of an epidemic, if such there be, and, indeed, the weather. I shall not attempt to go into that in detail. Although I shall draw the hon. Gentleman's points to the attention of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Health, I should make the point that we had a debate on health matters only yesterday.
 Mr. Newton : After my hon. Friend's success in achieving a debate on Kentish matters yesterday, I had harboured the hope that he might take today off. But he has not, and has made another very good point.
 Mr. Newton : The ingenuity with which my hon. Friends manage to make their points, disguised as requests for a debate, never ceases to amaze me. I congratulate my hon. Friend and will bear in mind his request as well.
 Mr. Newton : Obviously, if the letter to a person who is deceased caused any distress, I am sure that all involved would very much regret it. I do not want to seem flippant over that matter. However, on the general thrust of what the hon. Gentleman said, it is not so long ago—although I do not think that I still have it—that I received a letter from the Labour party seeking my support in very similar terms.
 Mr. Newton : We debated such matters yesterday, on a motion tabled by the hon. Gentleman's party. I am not sure whether he managed to get into the debate, but if he did not, I assume that what he has just said is an expression of frustration.
 Mr. Newton : I cannot add to what I said earlier to the hon. Member for Dewsbury. I am sure that the hon. Gentleman's remarks will be noted by those concerned.
 Mr. Newton : The hon. Gentleman raised that matter last week, and I said then that my right hon. and learned Friend the Home Secretary would consider the representations. I cannot add to that at this stage. As for the meeting that the hon. Gentleman suggests, I am not sure whether he is extending an invitation or whether an invitation has gone out from those concerned. I am sure that if one has, my right hon. and learned Friend will examine the matter carefully.
 Mr. Sweeney : Will my right hon. Friend find time between now and 1 May to visit the Vale of Glamorgan—a particularly interesting constituency—in order to see for himself the benefits of low taxes, low inflation, the absence of the social chapter, and deregulation in attracting inward investment to south Wales?
 Mr. William Ross : Even after the cull is completed, the EC will still have to satisfy itself that any region of the United Kingdom is free from BSE. Will the Minister therefore press ahead with all speed to ensure that, as each region of the UK is certified as free from BSE, the EC will investigate and confirm that that is so? Will he also urge his noble Friend the Under-Secretary of State for Northern Ireland to do what she can to sort out the problem of the suckler herd holdings?
 Mrs. Browning : My hon. Friend makes an excellent point. If a person breaks the law either on farm or in transport, he or she must be brought to book. I always welcome people bringing information on any individual to me so that cases can be properly investigated. My hon. Friend is absolutely right to say that farmers in this country have been the best custodians of farm animal welfare. We have a good message to send, and it is one that we shall try to enforce throughout the Community.
 Mrs. Browning : I have received correspondence about consignments of piglets. The hon. Gentleman will know that, if people bring to our attention individual cases in which they believe the law has not been applied, I shall investigate them. I looked into the cases concerned, and I am satisfied that the animal welfare conditions were observed.
 Mrs. Browning : Absolutely. My hon. Friend speaks with the experience of representing a farming community, and he will be aware how important it is to farmers that farm animal welfare and animal transport be considered at a European level. It is not simply a question of what goes on here; we can do things on our own, as we have with veal crates, sow stalls and tethers, but that does not offer much comfort about what goes on over the channel. The Government have pressed for, and achieved, much better standards of animal welfare at the European level.
 Mrs. Browning : Indeed, but when we want to influence countries whose cultural background means that they take a very different view of such matters, it is no good simply castigating them. The Government have
 1131
 Mrs. Browning : On the last point, discussions are in hand. On the wider point, it is in everyone's interest to add as much value as possible to exports on this side of the channel. However, that is very different from the position of some Labour Members who have campaigned for the total banning of live animal exports and who signed an early-day motion on the matter some years ago. The hon. Gentleman will know that we export breeding pigs and, at one time, we exported nearly 400,000 calves—a trade that Opposition Members wanted to ban. These animals are now slaughtered when they are less than 20 days old. We will always need provisions for some live animal exports, and our objective is to make sure that conditions for those exports are good and are enforced—particularly on journeys on the other side of the channel.
 Mrs. Browning : That is our exact objective. It would place a legal obligation on the Community to take account of welfare requirements. I believe that we have a very good record in this country on the transportation of animals, which my hon. Friend particularly mentioned. We would like such standards to be applied and enforced throughout the Community.
 Mrs. Browning : Under new Labour, people probably do not do their own shopping any more—I suspect that
 1130 [Interruption.]
 Mrs. Browning : Discussions continue on our proposal for a protocol on animal welfare, which will place a legally binding obligation on Community institutions. I am pleased to report an encouraging response.
 Mrs. Browning : It is all very well the hon. Gentleman shouting out, "Too late." We have an extremely good and well-qualified advisory committee, whose advice the Government take. If European committees do not accept that advice, we are subject to qualified majority voting. I am sure that the hon. Gentleman understands how that works. Unfortunately, the European committees did not accept our committee's advice.
 The Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mrs. Angela Browning) : We intend to continue to encourage food manufacturers and retailers to provide information for consumers about the use of these products.
 Mrs. Browning : The chief food safety adviser will have an overview of all the committees. In respect of the matter that we are discussing, the Advisory Committee on Novel Foods and Processes chaired by Professor Burke has been in place for many years to scrutinise and examine applications for genetically modified foods. We believe that strict scrutiny is necessary—something that is not available in other countries such as the United
 1128
 Mrs. Browning : The hon. Gentleman touches on exactly the point in the production chain where segregation is needed—right at the beginning. Under legislation, it is not possible for me to ban a product; but, as he rightly pointed out, it is possible for the people who are sourcing the product to stipulate quite accurately whether or not they will buy genetically modified foods. I had a series of meetings with the industry on 7 January to discuss exactly this point. Some companies, such as Iceland and Tesco, have publicly said that they are making that a requirement. The hon. Gentleman will know that three committees of the Commission examined the issue which he raised. They decided not to change their mind about it and we are bound by Commission rules in terms of what we can and cannot ban in this country.
 Mrs. Browning : And segregation. As a Minister I cannot insist on segregation; if I were to insist that only segregated crops came into this country, I would be in contravention, first, of European Union rules and, secondly, of World Trade Organisation rules. It is a matter of the industry, of which we are very supportive, sourcing its product by making it very clear what it will and will not buy.
 Mrs. Browning : The Advisory Committee on Novel Food and Processes, which looked at genetically modified maize, gave the product its approval, but added a caveat. The caveat was not sufficient for it not to allow the approval to come forward as a recommendation to Ministers. The committee stipulated, however, that work
 1129
 Mrs. Browning : I wish the hon. Gentleman would do his homework a little more carefully. We have just agreed, in December, with the European Commission—a body of which the hon. Gentleman and his party are very much in favour—that we should have Europewide regulation in this matter. It has been the United Kingdom Government who have been pressing—
 Mrs. Browning : I could not have put it better myself. I notice that today's Consumers Association report does not question in any way the safety of the product. It raises the point about labelling—
 Mrs. Browning : My right hon. and learned Friend this afternoon gave the House a clear outline as to the independence of that food safety adviser and the council that he or she will chair. We believe that here at the Dispatch Box is the right place for Ministers to be accountable and to defend their policy—but if they get the policy wrong, or if the experts believe that they have not implemented it properly, they will be called to book and that will be done publicly. I am always interested to hear the views of consumer bodies, to which we speak on a regular basis, but that independence is key.
 Mrs. Browning : We have had meetings and correspondence with a number of consumer groups on various food safety issues.
 Mrs. Taylor : I thank the Leader of the House. He announced that the Police Bill  [Lords] 1144
 Mrs. Ann Taylor  (Dewsbury) : May I ask the Leader of the House for details of future business?
 Mrs. Ann Winterton : May I support the gist of the question of my hon. Friend the Member for Morecambe
 1126
 Mrs. Anne Campbell  (Cambridge) : Now that the contract for maintaining the Tristar has gone to the United Arab Emirates, does the Minister still feel confident that the maintenance will be carried out as well as it was at Marshall's of Cambridge?
 Mrs. Anne Campbell  (Cambridge) : I do not normally participate in debates on the Royal Air Force but I have an important constituency case about which I intend to speak. 1208 "our campaign to retain the contract was doomed from the outset. It is simply not possible for any company in the EU or the USA to compete with GAMCO, and their employment of low paid Far Eastern transient labour on a predominantly price consideration basis." "This is a firm which has distinguished itself through generations of a family. In wartime it has played a major role in Britain's effort and in peace-time it has often shored up Cambridgeshire's economy, creating jobs for local people and enhancing the city's reputation in the local arena." 1209 "And of course, your work for the Falklands campaign will never be forgotten". "Marshall's proven track record with Royal Air Force tankers and transports has gained them the reputation as one of the world leaders in Tri-Star heavy maintenance."
 Mrs. Anne Campbell : Does the Minister agree, however, that in putting Marshall of Cambridge in direct competition with a firm such as GAMCO he is driving down quality and wages in a way that we would find totally unacceptable in this country?
 Mrs. Gwyneth Dunwoody  (Crewe and Nantwich) : Would the Leader of the House like to calculate exactly how much European legislation in the form of directives is awaiting scrutiny by European Standing Committee A? Will he then explain why the Government perpetually complain about European interference, but refuse absolutely to deal rapidly with the legislation that is pouring out of Brussels? Dealing with it rapidly would enable the House of Commons to know what was really going on, to comment on the legislation and, if need be, amend it before it became damaging, rather than afterwards.
 Mrs. Helen Jackson  (Sheffield, Hillsborough) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Today I received a letter from the Prime Minister. I believe that that was because I hold one share in Yorkshire Water. He got both my name and the appropriate address wrong. Do you, Madam Speaker, think it appropriate for the Prime Minister to use his position to obtain the names and addresses of millions of people for a piece of cheap political propaganda? I am assured that Yorkshire Water did not offer the Prime Minister a list of shareholders. Do you not feel that such actions rather cheapen the position both of the Prime Minister and of the House of Commons?
 Mrs. Jacqui Lait  (Hastings and Rye) : I beg to ask leave to withdraw the motion.
 Mrs. Golding : Too little, too late.
 Mrs. Golding : When did the Minister first realise that the public had lost confidence in his ability to deal with food safety?
 Mrs. Roe : Will my right hon. Friend join me in welcoming the fact that Britain is attracting more investment from throughout the world than any other European country? Is it not the case, however, that the social chapter would destroy jobs and drive out investment? What advice will he give to business leaders who have been invited to shell out £7,500 to attend a fund-raising banquet hosted by the Leader of the Opposition?
 Mrs. Bridget Prentice  (Lewisham, East) : May I return the Leader of the House to the subject of London Underground? While I understand that he might not want to be bounced by what we read in the press, is he prepared to be bounced by a statement that has already been drafted on the privatisation of London Underground, which begins, "I can announce today that the Government have decided to privatise London Underground"? Does he accept that if such a statement is already drafted and ready to be made, the Minister should make that statement to the House, if that is the Government's intention? If it is not the Government's intention, should not the Minister tell the House why they have changed their policy? Finally, may I remind the Leader of the House that the statement ends, "The Minister expects tube users and Londoners in general to welcome such a proposal"? If we have such a debate, we in the Opposition will explain to him clearly why tube users and Londoners do not welcome that proposal.
 Mrs. Jane Kennedy  (Liverpool, Broadgreen) : Can the Leader of the House tell us when the Secretary of State for Health plans to release the current hospital waiting list figures that were expected this week? The right hon. Gentleman may like to know that on 16 July, the Secretary of State for Health held up the Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University Hospitals trust as an example of how waiting lists could be reduced to below 12 months in accordance with the patients charter. It is now quite clear that the hospital waiting lists declared by that trust have been doctored. Patients have not been declared within certain specialities, depending on where they live. Can the Leader of the House ensure that when the hospital waiting list figures are finally produced, they are accurate and have not been doctored under the direction and requirement of regional executives across the country?
 Rev. Martin Smyth  (Belfast, South) : I understand the need for the Government to give serious consideration to important matters and the problems of major constitutional issues, but will the Leader of the House tell us whether there is a possibility, before dissolution, that the necessary amendments might be tabled to Standing Orders, to allow the Northern Ireland Grand Committee to meet in the same way as the Scottish and Welsh Grand Committees meet? The idea was mooted by the Prime Minister in October.
 Sir John Cope  (Northavon) : My right hon. Friend will have seen the Procedure Committee's report, which has just been published, on a new streamlined procedure for tax simplification Bills. It is important that we debate that matter as soon as possible, and, if possible, pass the necessary amendments to Standing Orders. There is a great push—in the Treasury, by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and in the Inland Revenue—for simplification of our complicated tax legislation. The House should facilitate that process, and not be seen as a potential difficulty.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment (Sir Paul Beresford) : First, I thank the hon. Member for Walsall, South (Mr. George) for his kind remarks at the beginning of his speech. I was intrigued by his reference to cricket. As hon. Members may know, a cricket match is currently being played in the Antipodes. I understand that the score is 87 for seven, which looks quite good for the English team. The last man is not in yet, however, and as those who follow cricket know, that could be significant. I have always felt that New Zealand sports teams were charitable and this could be a charitable show. * 1242 1243 1244
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Hon. Members : Object.
 The Second Deputy Chairman : With this, it will be convenient to discuss Government amendments Nos. 3 and 4.
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (Colchester, North) : My hon. Friend said that the relatives of 50 per cent. of those who died in intensive care refused to allow organ transplant. Does that refusal come about as a result of the nature of the responses given to the secondary questions or do 50 per cent. give a flat no because it is not something that they wish to contemplate at that particular moment?
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (Colchester, North) : We are debating an important subject and I join other hon. Members in congratulating my hon. Friend the Member for Hendon, South (Mr. Marshall) on presenting an opportunity to debate it. I join my hon. Friend in paying tribute to our late friend Lord Finsberg who so ably represented the constituency of Hampstead and Highgate for many years. I was born in Highgate and I know that he was a good and able Member of Parliament who gave the House, his constituency and his country distinguished service. 1309
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (Colchester, North) : I am grateful to have the opportunity of a debate on the subject of telecommunication masts and planning guidance. "You will be aware that we currently have failed to obtain Planning Permission on three locations already, and have lodged Planning Appeals on two of them. Since these appeals were lodged, and as a direct result of your intervention, we have been in discussion with the other three operators". 1317 1318 "concern would be much eased if we could be assured that, in the event of appeals against the local planning authority's decision, the Inspector would have both the power and the intention to take into account the environmental impact in each case." "And did those feet in ancient time Walk upon England's mountains green?",
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (Colchester, North) : I apologise to my hon. Friend for missing his opening comments. Both the racing and football industries can apply for lottery funds for various purposes. The fact that the betting industry is structured as it is and the national lottery is protected as it is does not necessarily mean that there is a bias against football or racing.
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin : One does not need to be a great mathematician to understand that the odds in the national lottery are fixed, regardless of the number of people who participate, so the risk-return ratio changes as the prize gets bigger. That is unlike, for example, Tote betting, where the odds are adjusted according to the number of people betting on particular outcomes. The betting would swing towards benefiting either the national lottery or the Tote, depending on how big the rollover—the main prize—was. It is a complicated assessment to make, but I imagine that many people would be interested in working out all the parameters.
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin : May I correct my hon. Friend on one point? Once the pot gets beyond a certain size, the odds start becoming very attractive. Syndicates will buy a vast number of tickets on the basis that the odds suddenly become attractive once the pot becomes over £16 million or £17 million in a roll-over week.
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin : My hon. Friend has spent most of his speech referring to people who bet on the national lottery as "they". I hope that he will continue his speech with the term "we". As he is an occasional lottery better like myself, we should collectively embrace these people rather than referring to "them over there" and the constituents of the hon. Member for Liverpool, Broadgreen (Mrs. Kennedy).
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin : I am most grateful to have caught your eye, Mr. Deputy Speaker, following the remarks by my hon. Friend the Member for—
 Mr. Jenkin : I knew it was another constituency beginning with "B", a few of which have come up this morning. 1264
 Mr. Jenkin : I agree with my hon. Friend, and I particularly agree with his comment about good causes. Huge sums of money have gone to good causes in my constituency, such as the Mercury theatre in Colchester and the local night shelter, as well as to charities, the arts and sports. My constituency has done rather well out of the national lottery, and I must confess that I am embarrassed by how well it has done compared with other constituencies. I hope that that will continue. 1265
 Mr. Jenkin : That is like saying that we should not have had a private sector operator for the national lottery because a private sector operator would be out to make profits for itself instead of raising money for good causes. However, we all know that Camelot was the best bet because it promised to raise the most money for good causes. I do not see why we could not create a semi-protected position for a privatised Tote with arrangements to divert money into the racing industry. That does not alter the fact that removing this part of the clause holds out the prospect that there will be moves to liberalise the national lottery, which would be detrimental to the lottery. I hope that my right hon. and learned Friend the Minister of State will make clear that the Government do not support the amendment.
 Lady Olga Maitland  (Sutton and Cheam) : Will my hon. Friend spell out exactly how the profits are used to further racing? Are they spent on management of courses? Are they used to support the widows and orphans of jockeys who have been killed, unfortunately, in accidents? Exactly how is the money spent?
 Lady Olga Maitland : I give a warm welcome to the amendment moved by my hon. Friend the Member for
 1254
 Lady Olga Maitland  (Sutton and Cheam) : I greatly appreciate the fact that my hon. Friend the Member for Hendon, South (Mr. Marshall) has introduced the Bill. I had long been an admirer of Lord Finsberg. In fact, I was part of his campaign team when he was first elected to Parliament, and I had remained in touch ever since. It is very moving that one of his last acts was to introduce the original Bill. 1310
 Lady Olga Maitland : I formally congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) on introducing this excellent and important Bill. 1277
 The Second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means (Dame Janet Fookes) : With this, it will be convenient to discuss Government amendment No. 5.
 Madam Deputy Speaker (Dame Janet Fookes) : Not moved.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : Not moved.
 Madam Deputy Speaker : Not moved.
 Mr. David Evennett  (Erith and Crayford) : I am grateful for an opportunity to say a few words on the amendment tabled by my hon. Friend the Member for Beckenham (Mr. Merchant)—who is a neighbour, and a very good neighbour, to my constituency in south-east London—for giving us some ammunition and an opportunity to rethink the issue. He and I normally agree on politics, on government and on many other matters but I must disappoint him on this occasion and say that I cannot accept his argument or his amendment. 1290
 Mr. Evennett : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend the Minister for explaining those technical amendments. They make the Bill better and more effective and I therefore have great pleasure in accepting them.
 Mr. Evennett : The Bill—I hope that it will soon be an Act—will apply not only to England and Wales, but to
 1292
 Mr. Evennett : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read the Third time.
 Mr. Maclean : I suggest that the hon. Lady does not risk her money on the Tote or anywhere else by betting on that latter point.
 Mr. Maclean : I beg to move amendment No. 2, in page 5, line 34, at end insert—
 "(2A) Any person who, immediately before the date on which a determination under subsection (1) above is made, owns the property in question, shall be entitled within one year after that date to recover possession of it as owner.".
 Mr. Maclean : Section 71(2) and part VI of the Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 entitle the rightful owner of lost or abandoned property to recover possession of it within one year of the date on which it was disposed of, if it was disposed of by the police otherwise than for value. Amendment No. 2 gives a similar entitlement to the previous owners of property to which the new part VIIA of the 1982 Act applies, in circumstances in which the police have retained the property under the new powers. That means that owners will have at least two years in which to make a claim for their property.
 Mr. Maclean : The first part of amendment No. 5 is the most substantial element in this group, so I shall address that first. I hope to be commendably brief. 1291
 The Minister of State, Home Office (Mr. David Maclean) : Perhaps it would be helpful if I speak now to indicate the view of the Government in case my hon. Friend the Member for Erith and Crayford (Mr. Evennett) is tempted to accede to the amendment. I am afraid that I hope to persuade him otherwise. 1289
 Mr. Maclean : I cannot give my hon. Friend an exact inventory of the amount of property that the police have around the country, but it can be considerable. Tracing owners of lost property and getting better property marking systems on to computer are priorities for police forces around the country. I consider it a tragedy—as do the police—that after excellent raids such as Bumblebee, the police can fill warehouses with stolen silver and property which is almost impossible to return because it is not properly marked with a post code. There are warehouses full of JCBs, crawlers and other plant which are impossible to return because plant has no unique vehicle identification numbering system. A Home Office Committee, which I started a year ago, has met plant operators and others to try to draw up security schemes for plant similar to those used by the motor industry Vauxhall led the way in this area, with better and safer locks. If we are not to have more warehouses full of unreturned property, it is absolutely vital that all those in the plant and machinery industries take their responsibilities seriously, as car manufacturers have done.
 Mr. Maclean : I beg to move amendment No. 1, in page 5, line 17, leave out "77" and insert "77(1)".
 Mr. Maclean : There may not be an official trotting race course, but my hon. Friend is welcome to come to my constituency—to Appleby and Westmorland—each spring for the Appleby trotting and harness races. I might even invite him to make a speech on his views on matters pertaining to Britain, Europe and the world.
 Mr. Maclean : I am grateful to my hon. Friend the Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) for introducing the Bill and for his excellent advocacy of it. I am also grateful to all my hon. Friends who have spoken in support of it, and I am very grateful to the hon. Member for Liverpool, Broadgreen (Mrs. Kennedy) for her contributions today. I believe that she also served on the Standing Committee. 1283 1284 1285 "the Tote is a successful, fully commercial enterprise, operating in competition against the biggest bookmaking chains in the country in a cut-throat arena. The margins in bookmaking are small, although it does not seem that way to those of us who have lost money on bets and I believe that the bookie almost always wins. I assure the House that, according to the figures, the margins in bookmaking are small. Bookmakers have also had to compete against the national lottery." 1286 "That money could have gone to racing, as all our profits do."—[ Official Report, House of Lords,
 Mr. Maclean : My hon. Friend the Member for Beaconsfield made a telling and powerful speech. He is now tempting me to agree with some of his eloquent phrases. Many have professed their conservatism this morning and then made arguments that might get them drummed out of the brownies and certain other clubs around Westminster. Some of my hon. Friends will have to make amends for the views that they have expressed about state-run monopolies as paternalistic organisations.
 Mr. Maclean : The annual Tote lunch is not an event with which I am familiar. Does my hon. Friend happen to know when the next one might be?
 The Minister of State, Home Office (Mr. David Maclean) : We have had an interesting and knowledgable debate. I do not know the sources of my colleagues' information on betting, the national lottery and the Tote, but they are clearly better informed on those matters than I was until I received my briefings on the subject.
 Mr. Maclean : My hon. Friend is right. However—although we are considering hypothetical situations—if, for example, the Tote board decided that it wished to exploit the loophole, I am sure that it would be possible to devise certain franchising arrangements in which the Tote board would technically and legally be taking the bets, but in which it was renting out the buildings, facilities and machines belonging to Tote bookmakers. That could be done, and I suspect that it would be totally legal to do so. So there could be ways around the problem. However, I do not suggest that anyone will try to find ways round it. I am absolutely certain that the board does not wish to do that. It has given an assurance, and it is an honourable organisation. Nevertheless—as we are considering a Bill, and for the avoidance of any doubt—we think that it makes sense to plug that loophole. 1269
 Mr. Maclean : My personal view is that I sincerely hope so. If the time comes when it is regarded as sensible to allow betting on the outcome of the national lottery, I shall argue strongly to my ministerial colleagues that the Tote should be in the same position as betting shops. I would not want it to be given a monopoly, but I would want it to be in the same position.
 Mr. Maclean : I do not think that there is any contradiction in what I have said. I have pointed out that this is not simply a technical matter—it closes a loophole There is a loophole in the legislation. We have every confidence that the Tote board, as an honourable organisation, will stick to its undertaking, but it is right to pass legislation that we think is as perfect as possible. We know that there is a loophole, so it would be foolish to let the Bill through without plugging it. 1270
 Mr. Rendel : It seems to me that the Minister has made two contradictory statements. He has made it clear that he regards the matter as purely technical, without any real effect, because he accepts that the Tote board will not make use of the loophole that he thinks exists even if it is allowed to remain. He has also said that he will reverse the relevant part of the legislation if others are allowed to take bets on the lottery. However, I think that I also heard him say that if the amendment were passed today, the Government would not want the Bill to pass. Will he confirm that? If the matter is purely technical, he could let the Bill through even with the amendment.
 Mr. David Rendel  (Newbury) : I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me the chance to speak comparatively early in the debate. I must apologise to the House because it seems unlikely that I shall be able to stay until the end of the debate, as I understand that it is expected to continue for at least another hour and I have another appointment. 1251
 Mr. Rendel : I am happy to tell the hon. Gentleman that I have every intention of laying an equally certain bet on the outcome of the next election in Newbury. I intend to make a certain amount of money on that, too. Unfortunately, the odds against a Liberal Democrat win there at the next election are much smaller than when I made the previous bet, so I will probably not make quite so much money this time. Never mind.
 Mr. Greenway : My hon. Friend asks the right question. The provision was inserted owing to the concern of Ministers at the Department of National Heritage that, if the Tote legislation did not make specific reference to the national lottery, it might send a signal that it was all right to have bets on the Tote. I do not accept that argument, but it is the only reason that I can suggest. It must have been known that the Act already prohibits the taking of bets on the outcome of the lottery.
 Mr. Greenway : It is slightly outside the scope of the amendment but, with your permission, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I am more than happy—
 Mr. Harry Greenway  (Ealing, North) : I am sorry that I missed my hon. Friend's first sentence. I congratulate him on his consistently good work as chairman of the Racing and Bloodstock Industries Committee, which is a powerful, important body of which I am glad to be a member. However, bearing in mind the benefits that result from the fact that the takings of the totalisator board pass directly into racing, which is crucial to the survival of that great sport—we had Desert Orchid this week at the Palace to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the founding of the British Horse Society, which brings it to mind—would a percentage of takings from other than racing bets go into racing if they were allowed? The answer to that question would be crucial in forming my view. We need that in the racing industry, as my hon. Friend well knows, for the benefit of all punters, jockeys, horses, owners and so on.
 Mr. Greenway : I hear what my hon. Friend says, but I am not sure that he is right. I am not convinced that the Sports Council—which would be the funding body—would be enamoured if commercial organisations were to start knocking on its door for funding for capital projects. But, to pick up on my hon. Friend's point, we need to ensure that the regime is fair and equitable, which is certainly what concerns the high street bookmakers, including Tote bookmakers. They are concerned that the lottery has too great an advantage and that it is time for us to come to terms with the fact that something needs to be done to redress the balance. 1249
 Mr. Greenway : I am sure that that is right. I cannot give my hon. Friend a definitive answer to his question, but I understand that when legislation was introduced allowing the totalisator board to have betting shops, it was not envisaged that there would be a market for bets on events other than horse racing, greyhound racing and possibly football matches. The market has developed substantially. 1250
 Mr. Greenway : Does my hon. Friend agree that we should adopt a real partnership approach to the betting industry and its support for racing? In that regard, do he and his constituents who work at Ladbroke's headquarters in Harrow share my joy at this week's announcement that Ladbroke's has finally done a deal with Tote credit?
 Mr. Greenway : And racing.
 Mr. Greenway : The Tote betting at greyhound tracks is different to the Horserace Totalisator Board Tote. Most greyhound tracks run their own pool for betting on greyhounds on their track on the day of the races.
 Mr. Greenway : I understand that they will all be pooled. That is what makes the odds so interesting and gives the punter the certainty of a sporting chance. That is the nature of pool betting and it is that which is makes it so valuable. 1273 1274
 Mr. Greenway : We are getting into very technical matters and, in spite of comments about my expertise, I am not entirely sure that I can give my hon. Friend an answer or that it would be entirely germane to the Bill. As the Minister would no doubt say, I shall arrange for ford Wyatt to write to my hon. Friend and explain it to him. The point is that people wish to make all kinds of bets at fixed and variable odds and that they can securely be accommodated within all the betting systems.
 Mr. Hartley Booth  (Finchley) : I commend this Bill, and I welcome the initiative of my hon. Friend the Member for Hendon, South (Mr. Marshall). The Bill is short—it is contained in one page. I wish that we had commendably short Bills such as this all the time, as it would make the work of the Chamber much easier. It harks back to the time when the Chamber frequently had short Bills. In 1876, Prime Minister Disraeli produced one of the most momentous pieces of legislation of the Victorian period, the Royal Titles Act. That, too, was only one page long. "a person lawfully in possession of the body of a deceased person to authorise the donation of the body or any specified part of the body for therapeutic or medical purposes if the deceased person had requested such a donation." 1306
 Mr. Booth : I am grateful for this opportunity to welcome the Bill, and I assure the House of my support for it, particularly because it deals with voluntary donations. I hope that the Bill's successful passage will send out a reminder to the public that to give a part of one's body can be life saving, that it is honourable and generous, and that it can be a human being's last act to help a neighbour. I hope that the Bill's passage and this debate will somehow increase such acts.
 Mr. Dykes : The hon. Lady referred to the bingo industry. She may be interested to know that one of the most attractive bingo clubs is in the middle of my constituency. It is run by the well-known chain, Gala Clubs. It is a superb facility, where many people come regularly, and not only at weekends. Modest sums of money change hands, but it is a huge sector that provides great enjoyment to a large number of people. Understandably, however, the bingo industry sometimes feels like the poor relation because it does not receive the attention that politicians should give it. Does the hon. Lady agree, and are there ways in which we could better promote the excellent bingo industry?
 Mr. Dykes : I am extremely moved by that kind suggestion from my right hon. Friend the Minister of State. It would be an even more agreeable combined double if the process of amity and connection could be completed by the extension to both of us of an invitation to the next Tote board lunch. 1280
 Mr. Dykes : That intervention emphasises my point that Lord Wyatt is a great expert on betting. I hope that his correct prognosis will be repeated, but some of his views on the future of Europe and, indeed, on the danger of mixing with foreigners too frequently are well known. 1281 "will allow the Tote to take bets on non-sporting events. The Tote's betting offices have been hit by the introduction since March of this year by all the bookmakers in their shops of betting on the Irish Lottery numbers. This now amounts to as much as 2.5 per cent. of all their off-course turnover. The fact that the Tote has not been allowed to take these bets has meant that since March of this year it is estimated that the Tote has been deprived of over £1 million and that, in a full year, it would be deprived of in excess of £1.5 million."— "This is money that has been lost to racing. After all, all the profits of the Tote go to racing." "The Tote has some 200 betting offices out of approximately 9,000 off-course betting shops in this country. The problem is that, if a punter goes into a betting shop and cannot get the bet that he wants—and in this case it is the popular amusement of betting on the numbers that are coming out in the Irish draw—he goes into another betting shop where he can get the bet that he wants."—[ Official Report, House of Lords,
 Mr. Dykes : It gives me great pleasure to follow others who have spoken and to congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) on his excellent Third Reading presentation. I hope that he will not mind my saying that I am glad that his amendment was not agreed and that the Bill reached its Third Reading without amendment: the original text is much stronger. I think that even my hon. Friend would be fair enough to see the force of that argument despite his great skill in advancing arguments in favour of the amendment. 1279
 Mr. Dykes : That moving, almost emotional, intervention from my hon. Friend gives me the opportunity to agree with him. It also gives me the chance to refer—without pomposity—to the fact that I am chairman of the Anglo-French parliamentary liaison group. The industry in France is much bigger than ours and more money is invested in it for breeding and training. I welcome any move to expand an industry that is congenial, attractive to millions of citizens and an important provider of jobs.
 Mr. Dykes : As I overcome my shock at my hon. Friend's insistence that I should refer to the amendment, I have a good deal of sympathy with his argument. That is why I am not yet persuaded what my own conclusion should be. I await guidance from the Minister.
 Mr. Dykes : I shall obey your advice immediately. Mr. Deputy Speaker. I was referring to the way in which the national lottery is protected by arrangements, which is germane to the amendment in one respect, but I shall not pursue that. I hope, therefore, that my hon. Friend the Member for Beaconsfield (Mr. Smith) will forgive me if, in response to Mr. Deputy Speaker's suggestion, I do not give way, unless he wishes to persist, with the permission of the Chair.
 Mr. Hugh Dykes  (Harrow, East) : I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me to refer to the amendment. I use the verb "refer" rather than "support" because, although I have enormous sympathy with the very reasonable arguments of my hon. Friend the Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway), I make no apology for saying, I hope with characteristic modesty, that I am waiting for my right hon. Friend the Minister to give the official response to the amendment. As often happens with these matters, the likely situation vis a vis the national lottery is not so simple as Conservative Members would like in view of the implications of the expansion of freedom of choice, to which my hon. Friend referred implicitly and explicitly in his remarks. 1252
 Mr. Dykes : As a European, I hasten to add—I hope without straying out of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker—that in some other European Parliaments Members can introduce private Member's legislation, which is so valuable in the House. We are all glad that the potential proportion of private Member's legislation has been increased under recent procedural changes. 1253
 Mr. Dykes : I am seeking information. I am not enough of a mathematician to be sure about the matter, but presumably the danger is that the odds offered by the bookmakers, and by the Tote, would be more generous than that which would be the equivalent gain from the national lottery system.
 Mr. John Greenway : No. I understand my hon. Friend's confusion. The National Lottery etc. Act 1993 prohibits all betting on the outcome of the national lottery, whether in Tote betting shops or in other high street betting shops.
 Mr. John Greenway : I suspect that my hon. Friend the Minister is about to talk about issues on which the betting industry and the Tote are grateful for the support given by the Home Office. Does he agree that, if the House decides not accept the amendment and leaves the Bill unamended, it would be sensible to ensure that any future legislative changes to the rules to allow betting on the outcome of the national lottery deal with this matter simultaneously, to avoid the Tote being disadvantaged?
 Mr. John Greenway : My right hon. Friend will not be surprised to hear that I have heard that argument before.
 1268
 Mr. John Greenway : Beaconsfield.
 Mr. John Greenway : The simple answer is that the money from the Tote supports racing in several ways, especially by redeveloping race courses by creating new stands and facilities, but also by sponsoring races. I shall discuss that subject later during the debate on amendment No. 1 or, if I catch your eye, Mr. Deputy Speaker, on Third Reading. 1248
 Mr. Greenway : My hon. Friend is a valued member of the committee and I am grateful for what he said about my chairmanship. I suspect that he knows more about horses than anyone in the House—the horse's friend indeed. We share, not only a love of horses, but a surname—not that we are related, at least in the recent past; we may have been, centuries ago. 1247
 Mr. John Greenway : Plus tax.
 Mr. John Greenway  (Ryedale) : I beg to move amendment No. 1, in page 1, line 9, leave out from 'betting' to end of line 12. "except bets on the outcome of any lottery forming part of the National Lottery for the purposes of Part I of the National Lottery etc. Act 1993", 1246
 Mr. John Greenway : My hon. Friend ought not to be too harsh on Lord Wyatt. I understand that he has accurately predicted the results of the past two general elections and has placed substantial bets, with great success, on the basis of his predictions. Of course, he could not do so on the Tote until now. It remains to be seen whether he will take that opportunity after the Bill is passed.
 Mr. John Greenway : This has been a worthwhile two-hour debate and in many respects it has shown the House at its best. That is easily said, but hon. Members have been open minded and those who have spoken are interested in racing and in the national lottery. The House has given the issue, which as the Minister said will return in future, a thoroughly good airing.
 Mr. John Greenway : Despite my disappointment at having to withdraw my amendment on Report, I am pleased that this is a landmark Bill for the Horserace Totalisator Board. This is undoubtedly a day of great rejoicing because in a few minutes the House may give the Bill its Third Reading and we can look forward to Royal Assent.
 Mr. John Greenway : On 5 March.
 Mr. Horam : Or perhaps it is the electorate in north London who bring about this admirable concern for selfless health matters, if I may put it like that. 1312
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. John Horam) : I join others in congratulating my hon. Friend the Member for Hendon,
 1311
 Mr. Horam : I shall check on that if I may. I am not saying that my hon. Friend is wrong about intensive care units, but there is contradictory evidence about what happens generally when permission has been refused. I shall look into the point raised by my hon. Friend. "Let your relatives know your wishes." 1313
 Mr. John Marshall : Very healthy air.
 Mr. John Marshall : The information was contained in one of the speeches in the debate instigated by the late Lord Finsberg.
 Mr. Marshall : If grieving next-of-kin said, "You cannot have the body. It is going straight to the crematorium", one would be unlikely to wish to intercept the body in the coffin and take it away. However, we must remember that a large number of people die not at home but in hospital. 1299
 Mr. Marshall : It is much more the latter than the former, but we have to accept that our relatives do not always want to discuss that issue. They are traumatised by death. However, I believe that death would be less of a trauma to them if they were told that their relative had signed a card which was decisive and that, in dying, their relative was giving a chance of a much better and longer life to others.
 Mr. John Marshall  (Hendon, South) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time. 1296 1297 1298
 Mr. Kevin Hughes  (Doncaster, North) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Hendon, South (Mr. Marshall) on promoting his Bill, which provides an opportunity to debate an important issue. The hon. Gentleman gave us a splendid tour of how organ donation operates around the world; I congratulate him also on his research. I doubt whether many people would argue with the proposition that there is a shortage of organ and tissue donors in Britain. The Bill is not the first attempt to address the issue of how to acquire more donors. 1307 1308
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. This Bill is entirely about the Horserace Totalisator Board and Third Reading speeches should be confined to what is in the Bill.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. This Bill is about horses, not dogs.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : To ensure that there is no misunderstanding, let me say that I am going to Newbury races tomorrow and they are for horses only.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. We are not here to discuss the national lottery and the distribution of prizes. The amendment is specific, and I should be grateful if the hon. Gentleman would return to it.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Morris) : Order. It is not for me to prejudge whether the hon. Gentleman responds to any intervention. However, I am listening attentively.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman should address the amendment, not matters external to the Chamber.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I am not sure that that comes directly under the amendment. I am waiting for elucidation on it.
 Mr. Stephen : Does my hon. Friend accept that the activities of the national lottery are for the benefit of people, in that huge sums of money generated each week are applied in large measure to good causes? Does he further accept that although the national lottery is a state-run monopoly, it is in competition with other forms of betting such as horse racing and the football pools?
 Mr. Stephen : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) on piloting this useful Bill through the House. I support the amendment, and I agree entirely with my hon. Friend the Member for Harrow, West (Mr. Hughes) about the effect of the lottery upon the horse race betting industry. I was also interested to hear that the hon. Member for Newbury (Mr. Rendel) has placed a bet on the outcome of the election in his constituency. He did not tell the House whether he was betting that he would win his seat or lose it. I suspect probably the latter. 1266
 Mr. Michael Stephen  (Shoreham) : What about the next election?
 Mr. Stephen : I am grateful for my hon. Friend's intervention. 1267
 Mr. Nigel Forman  (Carshalton and Wallington) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Hendon, South (Mr. Marshall) on raising an important subject, about which I am sure many of our constituents care deeply. Some of them will have been directly or indirectly
 1300 1301
 Mr. Forman   indicated assent.
 Mr. Piers Merchant  (Beckenham) : Can my hon. Friend explain one point that puzzles me? Perhaps he can explain the point with regard to the practice in other countries, to which he referred extensively. What happens when the body of a deceased person is under the control of relatives, as may well happen, and those relatives object to transplantation or to the organs being removed? What are the authorities able to do? What do they do in practice? Do the police call at the house to take away the body? How do they pressurise grieving next-of-kin who do not want to release the body?
 Mr. Merchant : I was going to come to that point, but I will answer it directly as my hon. Friend asks about it now. Under the 1897 Act—in fact, I believe that it is under the 1975 regulations—the police have to keep property for 12 months before they are able to auction it, although it is six months for property forfeited, so there is a different time scale. However, if they seek to acquire it for themselves rather than to auction it, there is a reason why the period should be different, which I will move on to later. 1288
 Mr. Merchant : I have listened very carefully and with great interest to my right hon. Friend the Minister and to my hon. Friend the Member for Erith and Crayford (Mr. Evennett). Having had an opportunity—which the House has not previously had—to hear why a 12-month period was originally specified in the Bill, I appreciate why those arguments are convincing. I was particularly convinced by the arguments that the police should not be custodians of warehouses, and that their very success in cracking down on crime has resulted in the problem of having to look after such large quantities of property. I also appreciate the argument that property should be disposed of as soon as reasonably proper.
 Mr. Piers Merchant  (Beckenham) : I beg to move amendment No. 6, in page 1, line 10, leave out 'a year' and insert '18 months'.
 Mr. Merchant : I am aware of that. With respect to my hon. Friend, perhaps he was not listening to my argument earlier. I said that what he has outlined was probably the case, but that I thought that there might be an ambiguity if the Bill becomes law, the amendment having been agreed to. The interpretation might be that the Tote could accept betting on the outcome of the national lottery. If that interpretation was made by the courts, we would have
 1258
 Mr. Piers Merchant  (Beckenham) : I (shall speak against the amendment, but I hasten to assure my hon. Friend the Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) that I strongly support the Bill as originally drafted.
 Mr. Merchant : I accept my hon. Friend's point. I am not saying that we must be certain that there will be no damage to the lottery; I am saying that we need to consider, on the basis of the best research available, what is likely to happen. We must ensure that any predictable damage is fairly limited. It is the degree of damage that is important. I am sure my hon. Friend accepts that, if the damage could prove fatal, we would have to consider carefully any argument for changing the law. We must consider carefully the impact of any change and achieve the right balance. That is precisely the purpose of current legislation. Before we introduce change, it is incumbent on us to be certain that there will not be unacceptable damage. 1259
 Mr. Merchant : I, too, am not an expert mathematician. My immediate instinct, however, is that my hon. Friend is correct. The result must be that many people who are now attracted by the national lottery might instead be attracted by something similar to it and linked to it which offered them a greater chance of gain. That would substitute money that currently goes on the national lottery for money that goes on pure betting but does not produce the beneficial outcome—proceeds for good causes.
 Mr. Merchant : My hon. Friend is clearly a great mathematician—a true Pythagoras. I am grateful to him for such a clear explanation and complex calculation. It reinforces my point—there is potential danger to the national lottery if we allow betting on its outcome. 1260
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes : I just wonder whether my hon. Friend is giving this good advice to Mr. Deputy Speaker, having insulted him earlier by suggesting that he was at least 150 years old.
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes : That is a very important point. My constituent, Screaming Lord Sutch, has bet on himself and on the number of votes that he might receive in the many by-elections he has stood in, and, in most cases, that is how he has paid his election expenses. It is a very good tradition.
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes  (Harrow, West) : This issue is important in my constituency as the Ladbroke Group pic is the largest employer in Harrow, West. Its telephone betting centre in Rayners lane is not a small operation—it looks more like Houston mission control, with a huge bank of monitors and many people taking bets over the telephone. The point of the amendment moved by my hon. Friend the Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) will not be lost on my constituents who work at that centre and those who work in the betting offices of Ladbroke's and other companies throughout the country.
 Mr. Hughes : My hon. Friend is very knowledgeable in such matters. People would buy their newspapers or cigarettes and spend the change from a fiver in the nearest betting shop. Such sums constituted a substantial portion of the betting industry's income. People now choose to buy a couple of scratchcards, so the money is going directly to what my hon. Friend the Member for Beaconsfield (Mr. Smith) described as a national monopoly rather than to the private industries that run betting shops. I praise the way in which the big betting organisations, such as Ladbroke's and William Hill, have lobbied for change on a purely factual basis. The levy was altered in the Budget before last in order to ameliorate their losses.
 Mr. Hughes : I agree that the national lottery has had a significant effect on the pattern of retail sales, which has
 1256
 Mr. Hughes : It is also good news for the racing industry. I have described to the House why the national lottery has substantially affected trade patterns and reduced the amount of trade in betting shops. As hon. Members have said, the industry has applied to be allowed to take bets on the lottery lucky numbers. That practice has not had any adverse effects on the success of lotteries in other countries, and such bets can be made on the lucky numbers in the Irish lottery. 1257
 Mr. Hughes : Ladbroke's advised me that that was about to happen, and it is very good news for my constituents and for the many people who work in betting shops throughout the country.
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes : I am sure that my hon. Friend is aware of a second connection, which plays an instructive role in ensuring that racing is maintained as an important industry in this country. Until the second world war, there was an important race track at Northolt park on the borders of my constituency and Ealing—part of the site is in my constituency. We do not want more race tracks to be abandoned; we want racing in this country to thrive.
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes : I start by adding my congratulations to those who brought the measure forward. My noble Friend Lord Kimball, who introduced the Bill in another place, is well known in the House for his interest in these matters and for the enormous amount that he has done over the years as a Member—first, of the House of Commons and now of the House of Lords—in advancing the interests of the horse racing industry and other country pursuits. 1278
 Mr. Robert G. Hughes  (Harrow, West) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Hendon, South (Mr. Marshall) on introducing an important Bill. As my hon. Friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington (Mr. Forman) said so eloquently, the Bill turns on an extremely tricky area. However, my hon. Friend the Member for Hendon, South produced some very good arguments in advocating why we should go down the road that is set out in the Bill. I congratulate him warmly on that. I am sure that many people throughout the country will have a great deal of sympathy with everything that he said. 1302 1303 1304
 Mr. Tim Smith : How much unclaimed property do the police have in their possession? How much room does it take up? What burden is it placing on the police at the moment? To what extent would that burden be increased if we were to accept the amendment?
 Mr. Smith : I am delighted to hear that. Newbury race course is one of the most attractive race courses in the country—I am sure that the hon. Member for Newbury (Mr. Rendel) agrees that it is an excellent course. I hope you have a fantastic day out, Mr. Deputy Speaker; I hope that you place all your bets with the Tote; and I hope that you have great success and come in on Monday morning with a big smile on your face. The Tote is convenient at race courses; it will be near the directors' box in which you have lunch, so you will not have to go very far to place your bet; and it provides an excellent service, with all sorts of combinations of bets.
 Mr. Tim Smith  (Beaconsfield) : How long do the police have to keep property under the 1897 legislation before they can auction it?
 Mr. Smith : I am very disappointed at your ruling, Mr. Deputy Speaker, because it means that I shall be unable to give you some very helpful advice about how you should bet the next time you attend dog racing.
 Mr. Smith : I think you are right, Mr. Deputy Speaker. The Bill is about horse racing, but I wonder whether it is not too late to extend it to dog racing. What I am about to say would be applicable and relevant to horse racing. 1276
 Mr. Smith : I was not aware of the date because, unfortunately, I have not been invited this year—perhaps if certain people read  Hansard,
 Mr. Smith : I am grateful for that clarification—
 Mr. Tim Smith : How will the Bill work because I understand that at the moment bets on the Tote create a pool from which prize money is paid, leaving a balance. Therefore, it is impossible for the Tote to lose money. Will that be possible under the new arrangements? Will all bets be similarly pooled?
 Mr. Tim Smith : I join my hon. Friend the Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) in paying tribute to Lord Wyatt of Weeford, the chairman of the Tote, who is due to retire on 30 April. He has been an absolutely splendid chairman. When I was the parliamentary private secretary to the Home Secretary of the day, I had the good fortune to be invited to a splendid occasion called the annual Tote lunch, which takes place at a very nice hotel in Kensington. Lord Wyatt always made a most amusing speech on such occasions, although it was largely at the expense of the other guests. It is quite right that the Tote should celebrate its achievements because it has been enormously successful.
 Mr. Tim Smith : Will my hon. Friend explain how the pool works? How can the concept of a pool be consistent with the idea that one can walk into a bookmakers and place a bet at fixed odds? I do not quite understand how that works.
 Mr. Tim Smith : I am surprised by my hon. Friend's comments. Some £5 billion is bet on the national lottery each year, and that has clearly had some significant macroeconomic effects. For example, there is a large black hole in value added tax receipts, and research suggests that that is partly because consumer spending that would have been VAT-able has switched to the national lottery. Therefore, I think that it has had significant effects on businesses and charities throughout the country.
 Mr. Tim Smith : I wanted to ask my hon. Friend about the amendment. That might be in order. I agree that huge sums have been raised for charity by the national lottery and it has been a great success. Of course it is true that the competition to run it was won by Camelot, which has done an excellent job. However, the national lottery is a state-approved monopoly. Now that it is so firmly established, I do not believe that it needs protection. It has tremendous advantages in terms of advertising and is the single event on which no bookmaker or the Tote can take a bet. That cannot be right.
 Mr. Tim Smith : If that is so, can my hon. Friend confirm that the legislation enabling bookmakers generally to take bets on any event—legislation that was introduced when the sector was liberalised in the 1960s—has been amended in the same way as the Bill has been amended?
 Mr. Tim Smith : May I suggest to my hon. Friend—
 Mr. Tim Smith  (Beaconsfield) : If the provisions of the amendment, which were inserted in another place on the recommendation of the Government, are unnecessary, what is the answer to my hon. Friend's question? Why was the provision inserted?
 Mr. Tim Smith : Would not the disadvantage of such an arrangement—which, on the face of it, is attractive—be that horse racing would suffer considerably?
 Mr. Tim Smith : I am interested that my right hon. Friend has twice talked about challenging and rivalling the national lottery. I think that he agrees with me that it is reasonable that there should be fair competition and he does not agree with my hon. Friend the Member for
 1271
 Mr. Smith : I certainly would never suggest that. I am deeply distressed that my hon. Friend should have placed that interpretation on my words because I think that I am right in saying that no one in the House can remember the events of 1826 and probably not many can remember the events of 1926, but may I revert to the point that I was making about the two different markets that are involved because it is important? There would be quite a lot of betting on the outcome of the lottery and bookmakers, being inventive, creative people, would create quite a lot of interesting bets that people cannot get at the moment.
 Mr. Smith : One large group of people bets on the national lottery and another group takes betting a little more seriously and is better informed. Not many people bet on election outcomes—bets are mostly on horse racing, dog racing and that sort of thing—but people can bet on other activities. For example, it is interesting that there is quite a lot of betting on golf now, but may I finish my point about the Liberal Democrats because this information might be of interest to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker? The bookies think that, because the Liberal Democrats have 26 Members now, that is the starting point, but we all know that they are going to lose all the
 1263
 Mr. Smith : Of course I have bought lottery tickets from time to time. I even bought one of those scratchcards, but I was so upset when I did not win that I have not bought one since. I have found the same with the weekly lottery. I gave much thought to what the numbers might be and bought one ticket. When not one of them came up, I was so deeply upset about the gross waste of money that I did not do it again for a few weeks.
 Mr. Smith : I have investigated that matter. I think that it is necessary to buy about 5 million tickets to cover
 1262
 Mr. Tim Smith  (Beaconsfield) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) on piloting the Bill through the House. I also congratulate my noble Friend Lord Kimball on introducing the Bill in another place initially. It is an excellent Bill, which supports an excellent organisation: the Tote. "The Government has no plans to introduce legislation to legalise betting on the outcome of the National Lottery." "The last Lottery to be held in this country was abandoned mainly because the focus had switched from people playing the official Lottery to betting on the outcome." "What the Heritage Department does not state is how the last lottery was conducted. According to 'An Economic and Social History of Gambling in Britain and the USA' in running the Lottery, the Treasury sold a given number of tickets to brokers who then bid above par for blocks. The brokers thus, in effect, underwrote the Lottery. In turn, brokers sold shares in the tickets at prices which exceeded the face value by a substantial margin and provided them with income and profit. Thus it was the Government itself that
 1261 "I am aware that there are significant differences between the current National Lottery and the last state lottery held in this country in 1826, particularly with regard to the cost of tickets. I am also aware that opinions vary about the exact causes of the abolition of lotteries in the nineteenth century." "The purpose of the National Lottery is to raise as much money as possible for the arts, sports, the heritage, charities and projects to mark the year 2000 and the beginning of the third millennium. If money were to be diverted away from buying Lottery tickets to betting on the outcome, the amount raised for these good causes would decline and the Lottery would fail to achieve its central purpose"
 Mr. Tim Smith : I am not sure whether my hon. Friend is saying that, if there is any damage at all, that settles the matter. It is entirely understandable that, initially, the Government wanted to provide a protected environment for the national lottery. Camelot made assessments of the likely turnover, which have been wildly exceeded. The money that is going to good causes is much greater than forecast. Surely in those circumstances the national lottery could have the confidence to be able to take on a bit of competition.
 Mrs. Jane Kennedy  (Liverpool, Broadgreen) : I shall take a few minutes to outline the Opposition's position. It is appropriate that I should follow the hon. Member for Sutton and Cheam (Lady Olga Maitland), as we spent many hours together in the Standing Committee that debated the national lottery. 1255
 Mrs. Kennedy : I am grateful for the hon. Gentleman's intervention, but I shall not go too far down that route, as it strays somewhat from the purposes of the Bill. Various points were put to me by the managers of the bingo club. In the debate on the Bill in Committee, there was some comment about the need for a wider examination of the regulations that affect gambling in the United Kingdom, rather than the current piecemeal approach. Perhaps we could return to that on another occasion.
 Mrs. Kennedy : My upbringing discouraged at an early age any interest that I may have had in horse racing or the gambling associated with it. However, to follow the comments of the hon. Member for Shoreham (Mr. Stephen), I regard the horses bred for racing as incomparably beautiful animals, and I recognise that we would not have the one without the other. 1282
 Mrs. Jane Kennedy  (Liverpool, Broadgreen) : I have been asked to respond to the measure on behalf of my right hon. and hon. Friends, and I shall be brief. The House Magazine "because it would remove the existing legal safeguards which protect the interests of innocent people whose property has been used for a criminal purpose without their knowledge or consent." "If a power for the police to make use of forfeited property were deemed desirable in principle, the necessary provision should be made by amendment to section 2(1) of the 1897 Act and regulations issued under it. That would ensure that the protection already afforded to the blameless owners of forfeited property under that Act was retained."[ Official Report. Standing Committee B. 1294
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment (Sir Paul Beresford) : I suddenly thought it was Sunday, for a moment. 1319 1320 1321 1322
 Dr. Ian Gibson  (Norwich, North) : Does my hon. Friend have any experience of the hazards to women who have to walk along such streets? They face lighting and other problems, especially at night. In Norfolk, particularly in Norwich, refuse vehicles have problems getting down unadopted roads, and people do not get their refuse bins emptied. That creates terrible problems and makes it difficult to obtain contracts. Will my hon. Friend comment on the hazards to women and the problems of refuse collection in such areas?
 The Minister for the Armed Forces (Dr. John Reid) : The primary role of the Territorial Army is to act as a general reserve for the Regular Army and to provide a framework for full mobilisation in times of national emergency. The TA also helps to maintain a link between the military and civilian communities throughout the country. The role of the TA is being fully considered, along with those of the other reserve forces, as part of the Government's strategic defence review.
 Dr. Reid : I noticed that this was one of the more constructive questions asked by the hon. Gentleman during an otherwise non-constructive speech in the House a few days ago. The answer to his first question is no and the answer to his second question is that everything possible will be done to make sure that the Territorial Army can meet its training obligations not only at local level but at regimental and battle group level.
 Dr. Reid : The strategic defence review will take into account the strength that the volunteer reserve brings to the armed forces and to our regular service men and women. The immense contribution made by the Territorial Army is recognised by the Government, particularly its contribution to our operations in Bosnia in recent times. As my hon. Friend makes clear, a vital part of ensuring that we can meet such operational capability is ensuring that training is carried out professionally and with appropriate resources. That matter will be addressed during the strategic defence review.
 Dr. Reid : The strategic defence review will take into account a range of views from a range of contributors, not least the hon. Gentleman in his published material. The examination will be carried out by Ministers presiding over a range of inputs, including those that are in the Library, and those from the regular forces. We will consult reservist representatives during that process.
 Dr. Reid : With great respect to my hon. Friend, the hon. Gentleman must defend his position. I have no intention of doing that, but I echo her remarks about the contribution that the regular forces and the Territorial Army in particular make to our defence effort, and it will not have slipped her notice that in the TA all posts are open to women.
 Dr. Reid : My right hon. Friend, the Secretary of State for Defence will attend the Cenotaph ceremony on Remembrance Sunday, as will I and my right hon. and noble Friend the Minister of State for Defence Procurement. This is the formal national occasion for remembering all those, whether in a military or a civilian capacity, who made the supreme sacrifice.
 Dr. Reid : I can assure the hon. Gentleman that the Government are committed to ensuring that Remembrance Sunday and the two-minute silence on that day are not forgotten, but observed with full dignity, respect and honour. He will realise, of course, that the observance of a period of silence either on Remembrance Sunday or on 11 November must be a personal decision. Indeed, one of the freedoms for which those who fell fought was the right of individuals to make that decision. I can assure the hon. Gentleman that Ministers, including myself, and their officials will be observing that silence on both those dates.
 Dr. Reid : I thank my hon. Friend for that. I am sure that the House will have found his description as important and moving as I did. It is absolutely essential that young people not only formally remember but recognise those who fell for this country—first because many of those who fell gave up their youth for succeeding generations, and secondly because, unless the torch of freedom and the sacrifices made are passed from generation to generation, we shall not retain the will power to stand up for democracy and freedom. That is what the people who died in the second world war died for. All of us and any future generation will forget that to the peril of the very democracies and freedoms for which previous generations fell.
 Dr. Reid : I recognise the strength of feeling that the hon. Gentleman brings to the matter not only because of Remembrance Sunday, which is coming up, but because yesterday was the 10th anniversary of the terrible massacre in Enniskillen, which was a dastardly act by any
 14
 Dr. Reid : The Government are committed to dealing openly, honestly and sympathetically with the concerns of Gulf veterans who are ill. We shall continue to give the issue the highest priority.
 Dr. Reid : I assure my hon. Friend that we are keeping in close touch with our American colleagues. In fact, I was in Washington a fortnight ago having a meeting with the joint inter-agencies which are handling the issue. We are also extending to the Americans any information that we receive—from fact finding and reports that have recently been published and from any future research discoveries that we might make. The American assistance is particularly useful with regard to chemical weapons. As in all other spheres of information, I should make it plain that we will release that information—as well as all other information—for the benefit of veterans.
 Dr. Reid : I thank the hon. and learned Gentleman and take this opportunity to make it plain that Saddam' s actions in relation to the United Nations Special Commission are completely unacceptable and he must now comply with the United Nations Security Council presidential statement of 29 October. We shall give our full support to the Secretary-General in his efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the problem and we are in close contact with our allies on that issue. Since the hon. and
 15
 Dr. Reid : The hon. Gentleman will understand if I say, with all due respect, that I have done more in six months on that matter than was done in the previous six years. I issued a detailed paper on organophosphates five days ago, and a detailed paper on the vaccines used has also been issued, warts and all, including information about decisions that hon. Members may find questionable. I have also doubled the resources allotted to the research side, put more people through the medical assessment in the past six months than were assessed in the previous four years, and established a fact-finding group to ascertain the answers to the questions that the hon. Gentleman raises.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : Will it cost or save money if the Government decide, as a result of the strategic defence review, to reduce the warheads on Trident? If, as I suspect, it will cost money to take off the existing nose cones and put on new ones with fewer warheads, is that not a terrible waste of scarce defence resources?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Dr. Kim Howells) : I beg to move amendment No. 1, in page 2, line 26, after `repayments,' insert—
 '(ia) such terms relating to the interest to be borne by the loan,'.
 Dr. Howells : This is a small technical amendment to a Bill that is already purely technical. It would require that loan agreements specify how and when inflation is measured in setting the annual interest rate payable on the loans. It involves no change in our policy towards borrowers, or towards the debt sale itself. For the borrowers, the key point remains that they will repay no more in real terms than they borrowed. Interest rates will continue to be pegged to the rate of inflation.
 Mr. Soames : Does the Secretary of State agree that the good and ambitious programme of jointery, which was started by his predecessor, is well worth continuing? Does he accept that substantial savings can be achieved by jointery, and by undertaking further joint operations and much greater joint support work? I am sure that he will be supported in those efforts by the Opposition.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Mr. Soames—that is not our custom. They may be pretty girls, but we do not hold conversations with officials in the box. You may talk to me. Mr. Soames.
 Madam Speaker : I call the hon. Member for Thurrock (Mr. Mackinlay).
 Madam Speaker : How splendid; in that case, I call the hon. Member for Chichester (Mr. Tyrie).
 Judy Mallaber  (Amber Valley) : I agree that there is a need for this issue to be taken seriously. Although my
 88
 Judy Mallaber : Is my hon. Friend aware that many of the people who have these concerns are isolated and are not from organised groups, precisely because unadopted roads are often in rural areas, are unlit and isolated and do not have many people living on them? They come to our surgeries to ask for help, but it is difficult for them to make their voices heard, and they do not get support from many other people. Is that also the position in my hon. Friend's constituency?
 Mr. Beith : Is he here?
 Mr. A. J. Beith (Berwick-upon-Tweed) : Surely the thrust of the Cullen report was that, in order to deal with the problem, weapons should not be held at home. We are now considering whether disabled people should have access to weapons held at secure centres because of the reasons that justify an exception being made for them.
 Mr. Beith : The Minister has advanced a case that many of us find worrying. We should be united on the deserving character of the disabled people to whom the amendment refers. If any exception is justified, surely we should consider this one. The Home Secretary's letter to the British Olympic Association, which was echoed by the Minister this afternoon, said:
 "It is very difficult to justify isolating one group of individuals, such as … disabled shooters".
 Mr. Beith : Indeed, attempting to break in to Bisley would be an inefficient way for a criminal to attempt to obtain a handgun. The amendment would allow the Secretary of State to set all the safety conditions to his satisfaction.
 Mr. Beith : The Minister quoted figures for thefts of handguns, which I assumed included thefts of guns that were not legally held in the first place. If I heard him correctly, he seemed to separate out incidents of guns being stolen which had been legally held in the first place. Once the legislation is passed, it will not be possible to steal a legally held gun from someone's home, because guns will not be kept there—unless, of course, that person is covered by one of the other exemptions which the Minister has defended.
 Mr. Beith : The police would come to know of guns that had been acquired illegally not because somebody reported them, but because, when they eventually caught up with someone who was holding guns illegally, they would trace where they had come from in the first place. I thought that that was why the Minister made a distinction in the figures. Laughter 35
 Mr. Beith : I thank the Government for accepting an amendment which they showed such reluctance to accept during the debate in the other place. It is right that the House should have an opportunity to consider the compensation scheme on the basis of an affirmative resolution. We are glad that, in the end, the Government conceded the amendment.
 Mr. Beith : The amendment reminds me of a whimsical Flanders and Swann song, which extolled the virtues of the English, especially their somewhat lackadaisical attitude to sport, and which said of foreigners that they practised beforehand, which ruined the fun.
 Mr. Beith : With his capacious knowledge of the subject, the hon. Gentleman further underlines the fact that we have moved on since the days of Flanders and Swann to an era where people think it right to train to proper standards for sports in which they are allowed to compete. 58
 Mr. Michael : With the leave of the House, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I should like to begin by welcoming the fact that the hon. Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) reminded us of the unity of the House in our determination to do everything we can to prevent a repeat of the massacre at Dunblane. My hon. Friend the Member for Stirling (Mrs. McGuire) reminded us of the plea of the Snowdrop campaigners, who put a passionate, rational and dignified case to the House and to the general public. That is how we should deal with these issues. I praised the hon. Gentleman for his opening remarks, but I was surprised by the rather hysterical ending to his speech. 49
 Mr. Michael : I do not follow my hon. Friend's logic, because legally held handguns will no longer exist. A large number of them are no longer in the public domain: they are not in homes, or on the streets, because large-calibre handguns and a considerable number of a lower calibre have been handed in. 50
 Mr. Michael : I beg to move, That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said amendment.
 Mr. Michael : The amendment will make the compensation arrangements for small-calibre pistols subject to the same affirmative resolution procedure as for the large-calibre scheme so that a draft of the scheme will need to be debated by both Houses before it can be formally made by the Secretary of State. The amendment was introduced on the recommendation of the Lords Select Committee on the Scrutiny of Delegated Powers and Deregulation. I ask the House to support the amendment.
 Mr. Michael : We have always said that it would be problematic to deal with the number of claims involved, and that the process would take some time. We said that we would deal with the claims as quickly as possible, but that it was impossible to set a deadline. The civil servants and police involved are making great efforts to expedite the process, and that will continue to be the case.
 Mr. Michael : With respect to my hon. Friend, it was the will of the House during the previous Parliament that the process should apply to large-calibre handguns. The House willed a difficult job to be done. In my view, it has been done well by the police and others. Of course, many claims and assessments have to be dealt with, but we spelled that out when the Bill was before the House and when the order was laid earlier this year. It is something of a diversion to come back to us about a delay, when that delay has always been predicted because of the size of the job to be done.
 Mr. Michael : I accept that, at least most of the time, my hon. Friend tries coolly and reasonably to explain his viewpoint, and I do the same. I think that I have offered him sense and logic on each of the arguments that he and I have exchanged. The simple fact is that he does not agree with me, and I do not agree with him.
 Mr. Michael : I beg to move, That this House doth disagree with the Lords in the said amendment. 56 57
 Mr. Michael : As these remarks go on the record in  Hansard,
 Mr. Michael : The right hon. Gentleman obviously misheard me. Can he explain his curious assumption that the figures I gave included handguns that were held illegally? Is he suggesting that people who held handguns illegally would wander into a police station and report their theft?
 Mr. Michael : Will the right hon. Gentleman explain his comments about not all stolen guns being legally held?
 Mr. Michael : I not sure that the hon. Gentleman is listening or has listened with care—his courtesy is not in question—to the arguments made in previous debates as well as in this one. There is a serious public danger in the private possession of handguns. That is precisely why the previous Government introduced legislation to ban larger-calibre handguns, and why this Government fulfilled an election pledge to give the House an opportunity to vote on the banning of .22 handguns. That danger is very real, as shown by the use of .22 handguns to kill people. 33
 Mr. Michael : The hon. Gentleman seems to be in some doubt about the grounds on which the Government have approached these issues. They have done so coolly and clinically, judging what is in the best interests of public safety. I can assure him on that point.
 Mr. Michael : As the right hon. Gentleman knows, that point was widely considered in the debates on the legislation introduced by the previous Government and in the earlier discussions on this Bill. We strongly took the view—as did the previous Government—that such exemptions did not undermine the general principle that a ban on handguns was necessary.
 Mr. Michael : The letter from which the hon. Gentleman quotes goes on to say:
 "We have considered the points made in support of the two Lords amendments …very carefully indeed but remain of the view that it would be inconsistent to allow individual groups of shooters an exemption from the ban. To do so would undermine the principle embodied in the Bill that there should be a complete ban on handguns."
 Mr. Michael : I am happy to give way to the hon. Gentleman, but I hope that he will do me the courtesy of listening carefully to what I am saying in order to explain policy, rather than intervening in a manner that suggests that he is not listening to the strong case that I am making.
 The Minister of State, Home Office (Mr. Alun Michael) : I beg to move, That this House doth disagree with the Lords in the said amendment.
 Mr. Michael : My hon. Friend is right to say that I did not suggest that disabled shooters pose a threat to public safety. However, exemptions that would allow handgun ownership among members of the public, whether disabled or able-bodied, would drive a coach and horses through the Bill and pose a danger to public safety. That is precisely the point that I made. The point is not about individuals but about handgun availability and possession by members of the public.
 Mr. Michael : As I told my hon. Friend the Member for Erdington, at issue is not the characteristics of the group of individuals but the possibility of creating an exemption that will leave handguns in the possession of individual members of the public. There is a danger. 32
 Mr. Michael : With the permission of the House, let me say that I thought that the hon. Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) made a rather sad speech. It is clear that he has an awful lot to learn about effective opposition. He must know in his heart of hearts that, however much he may disagree with our view, we are doing what we believe is right, and not merely what we believe is popular. We are dealing with important issues, and an important Bill.
 Mr. Michael : Once again, the hon. Gentleman was not listening. It has become rather a habit of his. I was responding to the hon. Member for Ryedale. 71
 Mr. Andrew Lansley  (South Cambridgeshire) : The terms of the Secretary of State's statement will give rise to obvious concerns about the quality and standards of breast cancer screening throughout the country.
 Mr. Mackinlay : He has dealt with the point, Madam Speaker.
 Mr. Andrew Mackinlay (Thurrock) (seated and covered) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Not all the Division bells are working. I think that it is due to people not checking whether all the plugs have been put back in following building work during the summer recess. Could that be looked into, especially in relation to the Cloister Huts block? Some hon. Members could be substantially embarrassed by not knowing of the Division because—due to meetings—they do not have their television sets switched on. It is a matter of fact that not all the Division bells are working, and it is bad form.
 Mr. Mackinlay indicated assent.
 Mr. Andrew Robathan  (Blaby) : I have here a letter from the Home Secretary to the British Paraplegic Shooting Association, in which the right hon. Gentleman also says that rifles may be used by disabled people. However, is the Minister aware that a person in a wheelchair would find it very difficult to use a target rifle, because, almost of necessity, one needs to lie on one's stomach to use such a weapon? It is possible to use a rest, but it is not so effective. For someone in a wheelchair, a pistol is easy to use, because one needs only one's hands.
 Mr. Robathan : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that, in respect of Mr. Everitt and people confined to wheelchairs, it was patronising in the extreme for the Home Secretary to write:
 "rifles and shotguns … would, in the absence of … pistols, still be available for use by disabled people for … sporting purposes?" 36
 Mr. Robathan : The hon. Member for Vauxhall (Kate Hoey) is not an evil person. She shows a great deal of logical thinking, and certainly more than some of her Front-Bench colleagues. "Dispensation could be granted to any competitors"— "to shoot in Britain at something like the Manchester Olympics, although British competitors would have to train elsewhere."
5.  Mr. Tyrie : If he will make a statement on progress towards NATO enlargement. [11738]
 Mr. Tyrie : What will the cost of NATO enlargement be? I note that, after the NATO summit, the Prime Minister said that the cost would be zero. There have been reports in the press, however, that the Pentagon and the NATO military command estimate that the cost will be between £3 billion and £6 billion. What will be the United Kingdom's share of that cost?
 Mr. Andrew Welsh  (Angus) : I hate to break into this collusion between the Conservative party and the Labour Government but, as on Second Reading, the Bill has been allowed to slip through as if it does not matter. It does matter; far from helping students, the measure will be a great burden on future generations of students. I find it disgraceful that those of us who benefited from the grant system should be the very generation to impose massive debt problems on future generations of students. "Given the tightness of our plans generally and in particular the priority we wish to give to education programmes, the Government have decided to proceed with the sale."— [Official Report,  608 79 "We recommend to the Government that the Inland Revenue should he used as the principal route for the collection of income contingent contributions from graduates in work, on behalf of the Student Loans Company." 80
 Mr. Barry Jones : Does my hon. Friend agree that previous Governments did not invest sufficiently in research and development to enhance strategic exports? What plans have our Government to invest in this vital sphere?
 Mr. Ben Bradshaw  (Exeter) : I thank my right hon. Friend for his statement, and thank Sir Kenneth Calman and his team for their excellent report. I also congratulate my right hon. Friend on the swift and firm action that he has taken today, which is in contrast to the activities of Conservative Governments over the past 18 years. Will he confirm, however, that the report has not been watered down or toned down in any way as a result of the threat of legal action by one of the consultants concerned?
 Mr. Bill O'Brien : Will my hon. Friend have regard to the fact that, if we are to sustain a reasonable, good and active Territorial Army, it must be led by professional people in cities and towns throughout the country? In my area, the King's Own Yorkshire Yeomanry, which used to be the King's Own Light Infantry, is a good and well-maintained territorial unit, but I fear that unless we retain full-time professional people to train, there will be a reduction in the efficiency and appropriateness of the Territorial Army.
 Mr. Olner : I thank my right hon. Friend not only for that reply, but for his earlier replies which show the Government's support for Eurofighter. That contrasts strongly with the views of the previous Government, who fought a general election campaign on the basis that, if the Labour party formed a Government, it would scrap this wonderful aeroplane. That was not true and what the Secretary of State has said has proved that. 12
9.  Mr. Olner : If he will make a statement on the future of the Eurofighter programme. [11742]
 Mr. Robert Marshall-Andrews  (Medway) : This is something of a phenomenon: I intend to speak against the amendment, and it is unusual in this Parliament for a Labour Member to find himself in a tiny minority in the Chamber. I now know how Opposition Members feel every day. 41
 Mr. Marshall-Andrews : As far as I am concerned, the hon. Gentleman has overstated his case.
 Mr. Marshall-Andrews : I entirely accept what my hon. Friend has said and I will say what I have, in effect, said already—we are faced with a matter of balance. I acknowledge immediately that, given the small number of handguns that would be held, the risk to public safety would be very small. That is not an issue. The importance of this measure is its cultural nature—setting one's face 100 per cent. against and saying that there are no exceptions to this law. As a sportsman, I take no pleasure in taking sport away from anyone, particularly from disabled people who have no other raft. That is why the matter has been strongly debated within the campaign of which I have been a part, and why the opposition that we are articulating is not meaningless.
 Mr. Marshall-Andrews : I would not dream of giving my hon. Friend any other response under any circumstances. I will simply tell him this. There is a significant difference between the handgun and other forms of firearm. As he well knows, the handgun is the only weapon that has only one specific designation—the taking of human life. That is why those of us who have campaigned have campaigned against handguns alone.
 42
 Mr. Marshall-Andrews rose
 Mr. Marshall-Andrews : The hon. Gentleman asserts that the interests of one deserving minority are being crushed for the benefit of another. Will he define the other deserving minority whose benefits are being safeguarded?
 Mr. Grocott : Amid the many and varied ways in which different communities commemorate Armistice Day, may I tell my hon. Friend about a very moving ceremony which takes place every year in my constituency and, no doubt, elsewhere? It is called the Ceremony of Light, when 100 names of people who have given their lives in wars this century are read out and for each name a candle is lit, usually by a young person in the constituency. Although I attend the ceremony every year, each year is deeply moving—not least because it involves people of all generations. Does my hon. Friend agree that it is vital that all generations—especially young people as they grow older—understand the awesome sacrifices that were made and the reasons why they were made to defend our freedoms?
 Mr. Christopher Gill  (Ludlow) : I join my hon. Friend the Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Winterton) in applauding the speech of the hon. Member for Stockton, North (Mr. Cook), a doughty defender of the right of the bona fide citizens of this country to use licensed firearms. The House will not have been impressed by the justification given by the Minister for refusing to accept the amendment, and we must hear from him exactly how accepting the amendment would endanger the public. 40
 Mr. Colin Pickthall  (West Lancashire) : It was someone on the Opposition side.
 Mr. Blunt : Will the Secretary of State confirm that, as Eurofighter is exempt from the strategic defence review, which is the Ministry of Defence's contribution to the Government's fundamental expenditure review, should there be any cost overruns on that £14 billion project—the most expensive procurement project ever undertaken—[ Interruption.
 Mr. Blunt : Will the Secretary of State confirm that, as Eurofighter is exempt from the review, which is the Ministry of Defence's contribution to the Government's fundamental expenditure review, any overrun on that £14 billion project—the most expensive procurement project every undertaken by the Ministry of Defence—will not be allowed to skew the rest of the defence programme, but will be charged to the reserve?
 Mr. Amess : In the light of the sincere views that the present leader of the Labour party held when he was first elected to Parliament in 1983 in opposing all nuclear weapons, and as those views are held sincerely today by many other Labour and Liberal Members of Parliament, is the strategic defence review considering in any way the abandonment of Trident?
2.  Mr. Amess : What recent representations he has received on Britain's independent nuclear capability. [11735]
7.  Mr. Borrow : If he will make a statement on the progress of the Government's strategic defence review in respect of policy on RAF procurement. [11740]
 Mr. Borrow : I thank the Government for their continued support for the Eurofighter project and its
 9
 Mr. Trimble : The Minister, like most hon. Members present, is wearing a poppy. Will he comment on the behaviour of the management of Coates Viyella Ltd. in Londonderry, which has sent home and suspended more than a dozen workers for wearing poppies and has even compelled visiting executives from England to remove poppies while on the plant? Does the Minister agree that a perverted interpretation of legislation is being used to support that outrageous action, and that the legislation should be clarified so that no person will be penalised in future for wearing a poppy?
4.  Mr. Winnick : If he will make a statement on the future of IFOR in Bosnia. [11737]
 Mr. Winnick : First, I pay tribute to the way in which the IFOR contingent, including British Army personnel, has carried out its duties. In certain circumstances, will the mandate be extended, bearing in mind the situation that existed up to the time IFOR went into the former Yugoslavia? Since my right hon. Friend's last statement to the House, has he had any further information about the two notorious criminals and mass murderers who remain free?
 Mr. Skinner : Has my hon. Friend thought through the proposition that everyone could carry a candle? Is he aware that, if the so-called hundreds of thousands turn up at the dome with lighted candles, they might set fire to it?
 Mr. Swayne : I thank the Minister for his reply. He will be aware that the decision to withdraw the series III Land Rover falls disproportionately heavily on the Territorial Army. Are replacement vehicles being delayed up by
 2
1.  Mr. Swayne : If he will make a statement on the role of the Territorial Army. [11734]
 Mr. Grieve : I hope that I always listen to the Minister with courtesy. He raises the great fear of theft of .22 pistols. Is he aware—I think he is—that, if people wish to use .22 pistols for an illegal or nefarious purpose, they can purchase them across the counter in France and readily import them into this country, a process that is likely to be much easier for those wishing to perpetrate offences than breaking into a heavily guarded shooting club, which meets the exigencies of the Secretary of State?
 Mr. Dominic Grieve  (Beaconsfield) rose
 Mr. Grieve : I recognise that. As was said earlier, it is for the House to apply objective analysis and to ensure that people who may have strong emotions are nevertheless not allowed to dominate and remove the freedoms of others for no good reason.
 Mr. Grieve : I listened carefully to the Minister of State, as he asked me to, and to the hon. and learned Member for Medway (Mr. Marshall-Andrews). The two views expressed point up neatly—we went over this when the Bill first came before the House—the fact that the Minister's position is irrational and untenable. Laughter
 Mr. Grieve : I do not think that I have. When I first came to the House, I listened carefully to Labour Members and, in particular, the Minister of State. I tried to fathom whether they were trying to act on objective or on emotional grounds—the latter is something that the House should be wary of doing. Although it may be a small step, I nevertheless consider that, when one starts to take such decisions without objective justification, it is the first step down the road to the Ayatollah Khomeini's
 43
 Mr. Grieve : I am grateful, and I know that the Minister means that, because he and the Secretary of State have said it often. On that basis, his measure is completely and totally irrational. For that reason, the amendment should be accepted.
 Mr. Grieve : In two sentences, one following the other, the Minister contradicted himself. He stressed the great need to ban handguns, and then he said that he would
 70
 Mr. Grieve : I wish to pick up just one point at this stage of the debate. I hope that the Minister will listen carefully and then reply, so that I can understand the reasons behind the approach that he has taken. 65
 Mr. Frank Cook : My hon. and learned Friend has pointed out that this is a cultural measure and that there can therefore be no exceptions. He says that that is so because of the nature of the weapon. Does it not then follow that rifles are in the same genre and that shotguns are the same? Is that to be the next cultural step? Will he give an honest response to that question?
 Mr. Frank Cook : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman will care to compare the views that were expressed during the sittings of the Select Committee with the recommendations that were published in Lord Cullen's report.
 Mr. Frank Cook rose
 Mr. Frank Cook rose
 Mr. Cook : I must correct the hon. Gentleman. The Metropolitan police said that only one of the 600-plus weapons that they had taken from criminals had been licensed in the United Kingdom—and it had not been licensed by the perpetrator. All the weapons had probably been used.
 Mr. Cook : I would rather do a body swerve to that question. Whether or not it is patronising, the hon. Gentleman has raised an important point. 37 "Which, if any, of the following groups of people do you think should be excluded from a ban on small-calibre handguns and so be allowed to have them?" "Supervised target shooting with .22 calibre pistols by disabled people in cases where it can be medically proven their disability means they cannot take part in other types of competitive sport." Interruption 38
 Mr. Frank Cook  (Stockton, North) : I want to deal first with the theft of handguns. I prefer to call them small firearms, because I do not like the term "handguns". I think that I heard the Minister say that 398 legally held weapons had been stolen. I find that figure difficult to accept, because I have seen the results of a survey done by the Metropolitan police a couple of years ago. They recovered more than 600 guns from criminals—people who were using them in the course of their trade. Only one of those 600 weapons had been licensed in the United Kingdom, and not by the individual who had used it to perpetrate his nefarious crimes. There is a great disparity between the two sets of figures. 1 believe that we should look at the matter a good deal more closely, rather than use such sloppy logic, which creates a dodgy base on which to pass any legislation.
 Mr. Cook : My hon. Friend says that it was someone on the other side, which reminds me of something that happened earlier this afternoon and which graphically illustrates the sad state we are in with this legislation. Much earlier today, one of my hon. Friends said, "Frank, I realise that we are on opposite sides in this matter, but how long are you going to take?" That person is not in the Chamber now. I thought that it was rather sad, as I am on the side of the disabled and of the sportsman.
 Mr. Cook : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I promise you that my phone is switched off. It was not me, but I am unable to declare who was responsible for the interruption.
 Mr. Frank Cook : This will be the last debate on the Bill. From here, it will go to the other place, and that will be the last that we see of it until it is placed firmly on the statute book. For that reason, I am most grateful that you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, showed leniency in allowing the Minister to tell us about the number of weapons that had been handed in — something not strictly in accordance with the amendment under discussion.
 Mr. Cook : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for that explanation. However, I feel compelled to remind him
 60
 Mr. Cook : My hon. Friend has tempted me to put him to the test. When I raised the issue of Olympic and Commonwealth games, he told me that he had had consultations with the associations and that there was no problem. I believed him. I am not suggesting for one moment that he told me an untruth; he may well have thought that he was accurately informing me. If the information was accurate then, however, the situation has changed a bit since. 61 "We are writing to ask your help… The amendment would enable our .22 Olympic pistol shooters to train and compete for international competitions in established Centres of Excellence and avoid the embarrassing situation at the Manchester Games 2002 whereby English, Scottish and Welsh competitors will be able to take part but not train for the .22 pistol events. The safeguards contained in the amendment are absolute. The Centres of Excellence would be approved by the Secretary of State as secure sites. The shooters would be vetted by the Chief Constable,"— "would then be vetted and recommended by the governing bodies of the Olympic sport and finally, would need the special approval of the Secretary of State. Furthermore, the .22 Olympic pistols would be stored and used at the Centres of Excellence, only being transferred to and used at premises at which a shooting competition is taking place during an Olympic or Commonwealth Games." 62 "Supervised target shooting with .22 calibre pistols in shooting clubs for able-bodied or disabled people" "Supervised target shooting with .22 calibre pistols by disabled people in cases where it can be medically proven their disability means they cannot take part in other types of competitive sport" "Supervised training sessions with .22 calibre pistols by the British teams (able bodied and disabled) for the Commonwealth and Olympic games, and other similar events" The Sun, [Laughter.] 63 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Cook : I simply repeat that any timetable for handing in should have taken account of the process of valuation and handing across any compensation. To my mind, those are simple considerations—but I am a simple person.
 Mr. Frank Cook : My hon. Friend made the point that legally certified weapons could be used for crime. Of course they could, if they were purloined by others. However, the police had some control over a proportion of the firearms that were held previously, whereas now they have no control at all because they are illegal. The effect of the Bill will be that that control will be removed.
 Mr. Frank Cook : The hon. Gentleman expressed interest in the 56 per cent. of the generous random sample who were supportive of the disabled still being able to
 48
 Mr. Frank Cook : Will the right hon. Gentleman call to mind the fact that the National Rifle Association was first formed and established at Wimbledon because we had sent shooters to South Africa, who had turned out to be so poor that they had to undertake tuition?
 Mr. Dobson : On the hon. Gentleman's final point, there is a basic philosophical and management division of opinion. Unless I am misreading the Calman-Hine report, it suggests that it is probably best to separate the quality assurance function from the purchasing function. However, I am prepared to look carefully at that matter to determine whether the opposite case is more convincing.
 Mr. Dobson : In answer to the right hon. Lady's final point, I have always been in favour of good managers in the national health service, who manage to the level that one might expect from the salaries that they receive. I applaud the good managers, but I do not applaud the mismanagement that went on or the Ministers who introduced a system that made it more and more difficult to manage quality assurance in breast cancer screening, as has been made obvious not by me but by Dame Deirdre Hine, the former chief medical officer for Wales.
 Mr. Dobson : We are progressing as quickly as we can with removing the internal market. In view of the failures of the lead purchaser system in relation to both cervical and breast cancer, we are reviewing the whole concept of lead purchasers in any part of the country, because, on the evidence that is available to us so far, it is not working.
 Mr. Dobson : I am sure that any extra resources that are needed to make the hospital work properly can and will be found, but the general point is that to do things clinically badly and to manage things badly is frequently more expensive and more demanding on resources than doing them properly. If it can be done properly in other areas, it should be done properly in Exeter. I pay tribute to the relatively new chief executive in Exeter, who, as soon as this was drawn to her attention, started sorting it out, in marked contrast to her predecessors, some of whom have gone on to promotion in other parts of the NHS.
 Mr. Dobson : I was very pleased to open the Jasmine centre, whose combined characteristics women would expect in these circumstances. It has state-of-the-art equipment, but it is also furnished, upholstered and generally laid out in a comfortable and homely way; much waiting and hanging about are involved in screening. It is, therefore, a place where people get the best of high-tech combined with tender loving care. That is what people want from the health service, not just for screening, but for everything else.
 Mr. Dobson : The report does not deal with that, so I cannot comment. All I can say is that what went on when the consultants were there was the problem, not what did not go on when they were not there.
 Mr. Dobson : I agree with most of what my hon. Friend has said. Our White Paper aims to have an NHS that is geared to having quality standards and a system that delivers those standards. I am confident that we will be able to carry the clinical professions with us because they are showing much enthusiasm for the proposals that we are discussing with them before they go in the White Paper. It would appear that the only people who are not up to speed on what NHS patients and staff want are the official Opposition, whoever they may be.
 Mr. Dobson : We cannot ensure that no further failures occur in the clinics. Failures will occur from time to time, because it is not a precise science. We need a system that
 28
 Mr. Dobson : I shall deal briefly with the points raised by the shadow Secretary of State that are irrelevant to breast cancer screening. To the best of my knowledge, we never said that we would produce a White Paper in September: we expect that it will be produced this month. "Lead purchasing has failed the breast screening programme" "Lack of expertise and resource in lead purchaser Health Authorities" "The result: a quality assurance service that is unable to take effective action". 24
 Mr. Dobson : At this moment, I am not promising any extra resources. I said that I want to change the system so that the present resources are deployed to greater effect and so that we produce top quality. If, in the end, people make a convincing case that they cannot do that without additional resources, I will be prepared to listen and see what I can do—but they will have to make a convincing case. As I said earlier, badly run places frequently cost more than well-run ones.
 Mr. Dobson : I am not sure whether I am supposed to say this, but I will, because I think that the House is entitled to know.
 The Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Frank Dobson) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I wish to make a statement on cancer screening. 20 21
 Mr. Dobson : There are possible shortages of radiologists and radiographers, which will take a long time to address. We cannot just snatch radiographers out of the air. We will, however, do what we can to make available any resources that are necessary. 25
 Mr. Dobson : I am sorry to disappoint my hon. Friend, who has done a great deal of sterling work in this sphere. The studies into the practicability and health gain from screening women over 65 are continuing, as are parallel studies about the merits or otherwise of screening younger women. I am not in a position to report on the state of progress on either of them.
 Mr. Fraser Kemp  (Houghton and Washington, East) : I congratulate my hon. Friend on securing this Adjournment debate. This is an important issue, and the turnout of hon. Members shows the level of support. The problem affects tens of thousands of constituents throughout the country. In my constituency, every ward faces the serious problem of unadopted roads, which should be dealt with as part of the regeneration of the area. The problem is particularly acute in former mining constituencies, where British Coal assumed some responsibility in the past, but that is no longer the position.
 Mr. Kemp : I apologise, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Gary Streeter  (South-West Devon) : Given the level of anxiety about this matter in Devon, I thank the Secretary of State for the speed and, dare I say, decisiveness with which he has acted in this case. I hope that the suffering of women in the west country will not be used as an opportunity to score political points. Can the Secretary of State reassure me that should extra resources be needed to make the breast cancer unit at the Royal Devon and Exeter hospital a viable, efficient and successful unit, he will treat it as a priority and make sure that that excellent hospital receives extra resources?
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : The Minister told the House during last week's two-day defence debate that, despite the best endeavours of his Department, he still has not been able to find out precisely what mixture of chemicals was given to how many soldiers serving in the Gulf. What further investigations has he made since then? In particular, what batches of chemicals were purchased from which chemical manufacturers, and on what day were they given to which units? Surely it is possible to arrive at a realistic conclusion.
 The Secretary of State for Defence (Mr. George Robertson) : Following the announcement of the strategic defence review, we have received many written submissions concerning our nuclear deterrent. We have placed in the Libraries of both Houses copies of those submissions where authors have agreed that we should do so.
 Mr. Robertson : It is too early to talk of post-SFOR options, but our view remains that any follow-on force can only be NATO-led, with the risks and burdens shared equally by all allies.
 Mr. Robertson : I give the hon. Gentleman my assurance that that matter is being looked at on an almost daily basis. We take it extremely seriously. What matters now is what progress is being made in Bosnia. During my visit it became obvious that substantial progress was being made in creating some new democratic institutions in that country. The existence of a renewed debate, especially in Republika Srpska, between the two elements is encouraging. There is also a growing realisation by people throughout the country that there is no military solution to the problems in Bosnia and that foreign forces cannot remain there indefinitely.
 Mr. George Robertson : The NATO-led stabilisation force, SFOR, will remain in Bosnia until the completion of its mission in June 1998.
 Mr. Robertson : Since 1994. the nuclear weapons of this country as well as of America and Russia have been de-targeted. They are not, therefore, pointed at anyone at present. The decision whether the nuclear deterrent would or should be used would not be taken by the Secretary of State for Defence, but I remind my hon. Friend that, like
 4
 Mr. Robertson : No, it is not.
 Mr. Robertson : The strategic defence review will be based on the foreign policy priorities of the Government and indeed of this country, and we will assess what changes can be made in this country's nuclear posture that are compatible with maintaining a minimum credible deterrent.
 Mr. Robertson : It is too early in the financial year to establish the precise cost of the Bosnia operation to the defence budget. [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh."] That is exactly the same answer as was given by my predecessor in the previous Conservative Government. As and when we know the precise cost to the UK of the Bosnia operation we will determine how much of that cost can be absorbed by the Ministry of Defence; anything over that sum will have to be the subject of discussions between my right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and me. I have no intention of starting that discussion at the Dispatch Box.
 Mr. Robertson : Given that there is absolutely no intention, no plan and no reason to deploy nuclear weapons on the territory of the new members, it can be taken that that was not a major factor in the discussions on NATO enlargement.
 Mr. Robertson : Those are not NATO figures. A variety of sources have produced a number of figures, few of which we consider reliable. My right hon. Friend the Prime Minister did not say that the cost would be zero; he said that it would be manageable. The cost of NATO enlargement will emerge from the detailed plans that are being produced, based on the decisions made at Madrid. It would be misleading to present figures at this stage. A good indication of where the costs are likely to fall should be ready for NATO Ministers when they meet in December.
 Mr. Robertson : Immediately after today's Question Time, I am going to Russia to meet my opposite number, General Sergeyev. The Russians' opinion is not that they have a new enemy on their borders and the NATO-Russia founding charter was a new chapter in the developing relationships between NATO and Russia. We do not believe that the new applicant countries will have to pay a price that will have to come out of their social expenditure.
 Mr. George Robertson : The Madrid NATO summit invited the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland to begin accession talks with NATO. NATO's goal is to sign the accession protocol in December. At the same time, NATO is working with the three countries concerned to facilitate their effective military and political integration into the alliance.
 Mr. Robertson : I do not know why you are so intolerant, Madam Speaker. I thought that bonding was the only thing that united the Conservative party at present.
 Mr. Robertson : I thank my hon. Friend and put on record my gratitude for his robust support for a project that is important not just in defence terms, but in terms of the degree of European co-operation that we can find in respect of the most effective combat aircraft to meet the needs of the RAF and other European air forces. As a multi-role weapons system, it offers the operational flexibility necessary to meet the uncertain challenges of the next century. That is why the previous Government backed it and the present Government will continue to support it. I hope that all hon. Members will realise its value.
 Mr. George Robertson : The strategic defence review is my Department's contribution to the comprehensive spending review. There will therefore be one coherent review of defence.
 Mr. George Robertson : The Government remain strongly committed to the Eurofighter programme. The development phase is proceeding very satisfactorily. We are ready to sign the memoranda of understanding for the production and support phases and I hope that as a result of the positive decision by the German Cabinet on 8 October final German approval will be secured in the Bundestag later this month to proceed to the next phases. The aim of the four partner nations is to sign the memoranda of understanding for these phases in December 1997 and the relevant contracts very soon thereafter.
 Mr. Robertson : My hon. Friend hits the nail on the head. They have no justification for lecturing us. Whereas we made specific promises, which we shall keep, they made promises about defence strength that contrast with their record of cutting defence expenditure by one third in real terms in the past decade.
 Mr. Robertson : We are all glad that the shadow Defence Secretary has belatedly given his full-hearted support for Eurofighter. It did not sound as if that was the case last week. I am not surprised that the right hon. Gentleman has difficulty in coming to the support of anything that starts with the word "Euro" at this time. We all wish him well in bigger fights than those across the Dispatch Box—fights to see whether he will be sitting on the Front Bench at the next Defence Question Time and whether he will be there on his own terms.
 Mr. Robertson : I can easily give the hon. Gentleman an assurance that we shall keep the Royal Air Force, the Royal Navy and the British Army. Like the previous Government, we shall want to look closely at how the three services co-operate, the better to improve the operations and procurement side of our defence. That makes absolute common sense and it is one of the key areas that we are looking at in the strategic defence review.
 11
 Mr. Robertson : In the great history of brass necks in politics, I suppose that the hon. Gentleman does not shine out, but savings in this year's defence budget will have to be made to fill the holes in capability that his hon. Friends left. In addition to that, we inherited a 3 per cent. efficiency savings target from the previous Government. The hon. Gentleman was a special adviser to the previous Administration, so he knows a little about random, ad hoc, arbitrary cutting of defence budgets. Perhaps he should apologise to the House rather than boast.
 Mr. George Stevenson  (Stoke-on-Trent, South) : They could go to the Channel islands as well.
 Mr. Gerry Sutcliffe  (Bradford, South) : I congratulate my right hon. Friend not only on the speedy and
 26
 Mr. Sutcliffe : I congratulate my hon. Friend on securing this important debate. She said that we should find inventive solutions. Some of the privatised utilities use unadopted roads, such as water companies for the drains and telecommunication companies. We should try to find alternative ways for them to work in partnership with residents and the local authority to come up with creative solutions.
 Mr. Gerry Sutcliffe  (Bradford, South) : Is it not the case that residents of unadopted roads see other roads throughout their local authority area in Doncaster and Bradford, and cannot understand why moneys cannot be spent on their streets? They do not understand the difficulties that local authorities have in how they spend their money.
 Mr. Edwards : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the Conservatives are in no position to lecture him on defence cuts, when defence expenditure was cut by one third in the past 10 years?
34.  Mr. Ian Bruce : What assessment he has made of the adequacy of the funds available for the National Audit Office. [11769]
 Mr. Bruce : I thank the right hon. Gentleman—I hope that he is indeed a right hon. Gentleman because he certainly should be by now—for that answer. Does he agree that the National Audit Office gives good value for money and that its reports often lead to further savings?
 16
6.  Mr. Ian Taylor : When he will publish the first annual report on UK strategic exports. [11739]
 Mr. Taylor : On behalf of my hon. Friend the Member for Salisbury (Mr. Key), I thank the Minister for his personal statement and clarification, which the House will welcome. We are grateful to him. Nevertheless, will he clarify for the benefit of the Defence Manufacturers Association why there is such a delay in the granting of export licences? Export orders are massively important for British business and I should be grateful if the Minister would confirm just how important the defence industry is to British export performance.
 Mr. James Gray  (North Wiltshire) : That is a cheap comment.
 Mr. Gray : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Gray : I come from Dunblane.
 Mr. Corbyn : Will the Secretary of State say what assessment his Department has made of the costs of NATO enlargement to the new member states in raised taxation or cuts in their social programmes, and what
 7
 Mr. John Burnett  (Torridge and West Devon) : We are grateful for the speed with which the report has been
 27
 Mr. Greenway : I was hoping to catch your eye, Mr. Deputy Speaker. We agree with the amendment, but I want to make a brief comment. My understanding is that the amendment was supported by the Opposition in the other place. We can agree on the amendment if on nothing else, because it clearly makes sense to have similarity of treatment.
 Mr. Greenway : No, I am about to finish.
 Mr. Greenway : I give way to the hon. Member for Medway (Mr. Marshall-Andrews).
 Mr. Greenway : Yes—I have already made that clear. The point that I am making is that that is what the people who signed the Snowdrop campaign and those who called for a complete ban—to which the Government responded when in opposition—feel. From the many letters that I have received, and from much of the media comment that my Conservative colleagues and I on the Home Affairs Committee received as a result of our report last year, one would think that somehow we were evil because we stood in the way, as far as they were concerned, of a total ban. They concluded that, for them, only a total ban will do. My point is simply that if one accepts that, one equally accepts that the interests of another deserving minority—the disabled, people in wheelchairs, the blind, who shoot for sport, in all innocence—will be set at naught.
 Mr. Greenway : I had not intended to do that. If the hon. Gentleman is suggesting, however, that there was a great deal more symmetry between what was proposed in the majority report and what Lord Cullen proposed, he is right. The previous Conservative Government and the new Labour Government have taken a much more stringent view than the one taken by Lord Cullen or the Select Committee on Home Affairs. 45 46
 Mr. Greenway : If there are any lessons to be learned about the legislative changes that took place after Hungerford—in many respects they go to the heart of what we are considering today—it is that we concentrated far too much on deciding that certain weapons posed a greater danger than others and not enough on ensuring that the people who by their own actions, by their own behaviour, posed a threat. It is not the gun that kills —it is the person who pulls the trigger. The House has lost sight of that fact in many of our recent debates on these matters.
 47
 Mr. John Greenway  (Ryedale) : Our debate today brings to an end a long process, lasting more than a year and a half, aimed at strengthening our legal controls over the ownership and possession of handguns following the appalling tragedy at Dunblane in March last year. 44
 Mr. Greenway : As I said on amendment No. 1, my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard) made it clear when the previous Government introduced the Firearms (Amendment) Bill in November last year that one of the key objectives was to protect the interests of British sportsmen who compete in pistol shooting in international championships such as the Olympics and the Commonwealth games. That was supported by the Association of Chief Police Officers. 66 "We have recognised since the introduction of the Bill, and made clear in Parliament, that the effect of the Bill will be that British competitors will no longer be able to train in this country." 67 68 "There is no doubt in my mind that if we cannot say that at an Olympic shooting event British shooters will compete on equal terms with everyone else, that will be held against us." —[ 0fficial Report, House of Lords,
 Mr. Greenway : The right hon. Member for Berwick-upon-Tweed (Mr. Beith) steals my thunder by asking whether the Minister for Sport is even here. Will he be here for the vote? We shall have to check the voting record in tomorrow's  Hansard. [Interruption.] The Sun 69
 Mr. Greenway : I am grateful, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for that reminder.
 Mr. John Hayes  (South Holland and The Deepings) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. The Minister clearly read her words verbatim without rehearsal or prior knowledge. May we be assured that the discourtesy of switching briefs at the last minute to avoid embarrassment does not occur again?
 Mr. John Maples  (Stratford-on-Avon) : I thank the Secretary of State for his statement. I know that this is a subject in which he has taken a very serious interest for a long time. In particular, he has campaigned for better cervical smear testing and breast cancer screening. I join him in expressing my sympathy for the women concerned. This is a simply dreadful disease, and the uncertainty must have been really terrible. 22 "The waiting time to see a specialist and receive a diagnosis should end. If a woman has discovered a breast problem and is concerned, she should be able to see her GP, and be seen without delay by a specialist team at a breast cancer clinic, who can carry out the essential tests on one day." 23 Health Service Journal
 Mr. Spellar : The defence industry is a substantial exporter, which is why we stressed its importance so
 8
 Mr. Spellar : The content and timing of the publication of the first annual report on the state of strategic export controls and their application is currently under discussion between the Departments concerned. An announcement will be made in due course.
 Mr. Spellar : As I told the hon. Member for Esher and Walton (Mr. Taylor), we are working with other Departments and taking up the matter with them urgently to ensure that there are no undue delays—we are seized of the potential difficulties, which I outlined, if we are not able to improve matters. We certainly take the issue seriously and are taking action on it.
 Mr. Spellar : My hon. Friend is well aware from previous answers that we are examining the interchange between the civil and defence sectors in defence manufacturing and the interchange of research that that involves. We are also considering much wider dissemination of the work undertaken by the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency. We understand that much of the benefit that we are now deriving stems from previous research and we appreciate the need for future research to sustain our industry.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Defence (Mr. John Spellar) : We hope to publish a Green Paper on defence diversification before Christmas.
 Mr. Spellar : We recognise the increasing interchange of technology between the civil and defence sectors. That is also recognised by industry. We hope that, through the defence diversification agency, we can ensure that technology is disseminated far more widely into the civil sector so that we can continue to build, indeed rebuild, Britain's industrial base.
 Mr. Spellar : The hon. Gentleman has introduced an aunt Sally that would not be recognised by industry. In fact, there is considerable interest from the defence industry in dissemination—not so much among the prime contractors mentioned by the hon. Gentleman as among many of the small and medium enterprises that are looking forward to using the technology. There is also considerable interest in faster dissemination to industry of the very good technical and scientific work in our
 5
 Mr. Spellar : The Conservatives may not have changed their policy, but they have changed their entire defence team. The hon. Gentleman's silly comments about diversification are countered by the experience of British Aerospace, which has done a great deal of work on establishing industrial parks near its sites to build up its supplier base, which includes many dual-use suppliers. That, not the strange picture painted by the hon. Gentleman, is the reality of diversification.
 Mr. Spellar : I presume that my hon. Friend was referring to the following words of the shadow Secretary of State last Monday:
 "The second flaw is mentioned again in today's edition of  The Guardian Official Report The Guardian
 Mr. Spellar : One of the aims of the strategic defence review is to ensure that the armed forces are properly equipped to undertake the tasks asked of them. The review will consider what procurement policies are necessary to obtain the best possible output from defence resources for all three services. We will be seeking to establish a mutually beneficial partnership with the defence industry to achieve this end.
 Mr. Wilkinson : Would it not be beneficial for the fund and ease the burdens on it if clergy could be encouraged to continue serving as parish priests or in other capacities beyond the normal retirement age? In many spheres of activity, clergymen even in their early 70s could perform useful functions, perhaps on more modest stipends. As few people are coming into the ministry, is that not the sort of thing that the Church Commissioners should support?
 Mr. Brazier : Is the Minister aware that no other country in the English-speaking world has less than a quarter of its total armed forces in the form of volunteer reserves? Who is carrying out the studies advising the hon. Gentleman and the Secretary of State on the future
 3
8.  Mr. Keith Simpson : If he will make a statement on his Department's contribution to Her Majesty's Government's comprehensive spending review. [11741]
 Mr. Simpson : Given that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury said that the aim of the comprehensive spending review is to identify savings in all Departments, will the Secretary of State tell the House the extent of the savings that defence will make over the next few years—3 per cent? Five per cent? What is his base line for cuts below which he will resign?
 Mr. Llew Smith : Who are these nuclear weapons aimed at? Who is the enemy? Would my right hon. Friend be willing to press the button to involve this country in a nuclear confrontation?
 Mr. Todd : I thank the Minister for that answer on behalf of constituents of mine who have raised the issue. Are we taking steps to gain access to American research on the subject?
11.  Mr. Todd : If he will make a statement on the Government's policy relating to Gulf war illnesses. [11744]
 Mr. Martin Bell : Will the Secretary of State assure us that he is studying what the possible consequences might be of a withdrawal if it is decided not to renew SFOR in June next year?
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : As the Minister has just acknowledged, exposure to chemical weapons from the regime of Saddam Hussein is a possible cause of Gulf war syndrome. Is it not therefore all the more chilling to learn that Saddam Hussein is persisting in the development of weapons of mass destruction, especially the nerve agent VX4, and is declining to allow United Nations inspectors access, in accordance with Security Council resolutions, to inspect the plants where the development is taking place? Can the Minister confirm that the Government stand four square behind the United Nations Security Council resolutions which authorise—if all else fails—the use of proportionate force?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : I must inform the House that the amendment involves privilege.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I have already dealt with that point of order in part. The way in which Ministers respond to debates is entirely a matter for them.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : It is customary for the Minister responsible for the Department to be present at the beginning of the debate and to respond at the end. I think that the Minister of State has already apologised to the House.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Order. The hon. Gentleman is making an intervention. I remind him that interventions should be reasonably brief.
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton : I am delighted to follow the hon. Member for Stockton, North (Mr. Cook). No one in the House has fought harder for good sense in the legislation. His knowledge is unequalled and the research that he has undertaken has been magnificent. I regret only that the House is not prepared to listen to him. "transferred to and used at premises at which … competition is taking place". "The exemption for disabled people, who would be able to use such centres, is also important since cartridge pistol shooting is one of the few sports in which disabled people can take part"— "on equal terms with able-bodied competitors. "are specifically presented with pistol shooting"— "as a rehabilitation means to help with balance and confidence, primarily in the use of a wheelchair and sport." 39
 Mr. Winterton : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for that clarification, which makes my comments even more valid, since the Minister and his colleagues are not prepared to give credence to that important statistic. Facts speak louder than words, and the statistics cited by the hon. Gentleman should carry weight. It is tragic that this debate is not a debate at all, because people are not listening to the argument. If they were, the case put by the hon. Gentleman would carry weight with the Minister and he would accept the Lords amendment.
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton : I give way to the hon. Gentleman most willingly.
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : I congratulate the Secretary of State on his very positive statement this afternoon. The hon. Member for Newport, West (Mr. Flynn) said that breast cancer screening was a matter of life and death. Indeed it is.
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : I should like to make a slightly different point from that made by the hon. Member for Birmingham, Erdington (Mr. Corbett). Did not the Minister just say that, in this matter, no group of people is more deserving than another? Is he not incorrect in saying that? Surely we must be concerned for the group mentioned by the hon. Member for Erdington: disabled people.
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton : Does the right hon. Gentleman accept that there is a greater chance of
 34
 Mr. St. Aubyn : Will the Minister join Conservative Members in supporting the British Legion and its proposal
 13
10.  Mr. St. Aubyn : What are his plans for commemorating armistice day. [11743]
 Mr. Nick St. Aubyn  (Guildford) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Perhaps you can help me. I am a new Member, and I should like to know whether it is in order for a Minister who was not here at the beginning of the debate, when someone from the Department involved should have been present, to reply.
 Mr. Evans : Unlike the Labour party, we have not changed our policies just because we have moved to the other side of the House. Our support for the European fighter aircraft is 100 per cent. We want an assurance from the Minister that the RAF will be able to do the tasks that we ask of it after the strategic defence review. Those who think that we can ask industries such as British Aerospace to diversify their Hawks into hoovers, their Tornados into teapots or their EFAs into fridges must realise that that cannot happen. We need to keep our skilled personnel together in factories such as those of British Aerospace.
 Mr. Paul Flynn  (Newport, West) : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the previous Government had three measures of success in the health service—the novelty of management techniques, the total amount of money that was spent and the total number of procedures that were carried out-to the almost complete neglect of the quality of service? We often find that, when more money is spent and more procedures are carried out, there is a proportional decrease in the quality of the service.
 Mr. Brooke : The Minister is perfectly capable of doing that arithmetic, as I am, but he also knows what proportion of Labour Members are present and what proportion voted in the Division. 64
 Mr. Peter Brooke  (Cities of London and Westminster) : I shall be very brief. I was not in the Chamber for the debate on the previous amendment because of Select Committee business, so I do not know how many Labour Members were present to put their boot into the disabled. However, I notice that very few are here now to explain why we do not trust those of our compatriots whose ability is such that they are capable of representing their country at their chosen sport.
 Mr. Pike : I thank my hon. Friend for that answer. Is he satisfied that the pensions scheme as it is structured is actuarially sound for present and future members and that the parishes are not being asked to bear an onerous burden that they cannot meet?
36.  Mr. Pike : What representations he has received regarding changes in funding for clergy pensions. [11771]
 Mr. Peter Viggers  (Gosport) : In examining a tragic local problem, the Secretary of State has also identified much more comprehensive difficulties. It is clear from what he said that he intends to devote considerably more resources to, and place greater emphasis on, breast cancer screening. I welcome the extra resources for that area, where the staff involved are highly skilled. It is a stressful area, as I know because my wife works in it as a doctor. What extra costs will fall on the NHS, and from which budget will they come?
 Mr. Viggers : Is it not true that the record of defence contractors—of which Vosper Thornycroft and Basys Technology are two very good examples from the constituencies of the hon. Member for Portsmouth, North (Mr. Rapson) and me—clearly shows that they have been extremely successful in using the skills that have developed in the defence area and deploying them for civilian use? Does the Minister agree that the last thing those skilled managements need are so-called experts offering to help them?
 Mr. Willis : My apologies, Mr. Deputy Speaker, to you and to the Minister. If he is prepared to say that this is best value to the taxpayers, will he be prepared to say what is the level of discount being sought by investors in order that the debt can be bought? I do not expect him to give me a precise figure, but the level of subsidy is directly relevant to the cost of selling this portfolio to the taxpayers. 82
 Mr. Phil Willis  (Harrogate and Knaresborough) : I can assure the hon. Member for Angus (Mr. Welsh)—who is not party to Liberal Democrat deliberations—that it will become clear where we stand on this Bill as I speak for the next hour and a half. 81
 Mr. Willis : I am sorry. My apologies to the Minister—
 Mr. Key : Most people agree that our excellent Bosnia operation is very good value for money, the cost being
 6
 Mr. Sheldon : I agree with the hon. Gentleman about the value for money that is obtained by the National Audit Office. It is one of the great ventures of the House, and since its introduction in 1983, it has succeeded in meeting all the aims of the National Audit Act 1983.
 Mr. Robert Sheldon (Chairman of the Public Accounts Commission) : The National Audit Office corporate plan for 1998-99 to 2002-03 showed an increase in net cash resources from £39.8 million to £41.5 million in real terms over the next five years. There will be considerable increases in work load in this period as a result of the introduction of resource accounting, greater examination of regularity and propriety issues and involvement in accounting and tendering procedures in public-private partnerships. The cost of the extra work will be partly offset by continuing efficiency savings.
 Mr. Sheldon : The private finance initiative report by the NAO is very important and will be considered by the PAC in due course. We await that examination.
 Mr. Robin Corbett  (Birmingham, Erdington) : I may have misheard what my hon. Friend the Minister said,
 31
 Mr. Corbett : I am certainly not arguing over the principle of the Bill, but will my hon. and learned Friend at least acknowledge that 999 of every 1,000 shooters who are to lose the right to hold handguns have alternatives available in the form of rifles and shotguns? The tiny proportion who are people with disabilities do not have that choice. They either take part in competition pistol shooting or they have to get out of the sport altogether. Can he persuade me, as the Minister has failed to do, that allowing that small group of disabled shooters the right to continue to take part in pistol shooting would represent any threat to public safety?
 Mr. Simon Hughes : Will the hon. Gentleman ask the commissioners to throw their weight about with regard to what the state and the Church will do at the time of the millennium? First, will he make sure that we do not spend unnecessary money on a temporary construction at Greenwich when we could invest in more beneficial activities for the longer term—perhaps for people at the bottom of the social scale? 18
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : I thank the Secretary of State for his statement. I approve of both his concern for action to be taken, and the action that has been announced. It is important that we have in the national health service a standard of care that is enforced so that it is applicable across the country, and does not become a lottery that depends on where people live.
 The Minister for School Standards (Mr. Stephen Byers) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read the Third time.
 Mr. Byers : I shall answer those points, many of which will be more appropriately debated tomorrow during the Conservative Opposition day debate on Dearing and the Government's response to it.
 Mr. Byers : For the simple reason that we are in the process of running a strong competition to get the best deal for the taxpayer. It is the competition that will ensure that we get the best deal—a fact expressed by Opposition Members. I can give a guarantee that the details of those companies that are interested and are moving to the final stage of the process will be made public, as we made public the names of the 20 companies that entered the first phase of the competition.
 Mr. Bell : I am always grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his suggestions. The Church Commissioners are in touch with the Minister without Portfolio about the dome. We are seeking to have a chapel in the dome to celebrate the millennium with an appropriate exhibition. With the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, we are also seeking to ensure that while it is a Christian anniversary it is also shared on a multi-faith basis so that there is a proper spread throughout our land of celebrations on the millennium. The other points are for other Ministers and I will ensure that they reach them.
 Mr. Stuart Bell : The commissioners have been engaged in extensive correspondence with the parishes protection group on a wide range of issues relating to its work—in particular, the proposals for the future financing of clergy pensions. The group has made a number of assertions that the commissioners do not accept, and they have made their position clear to the group. I have invited my hon. Friend to see me about those matters and I look forward to his taking me up on that offer.
 Mr. Bell : The commissioners' actuaries have confirmed that sufficient funds are available to meet the past service liability for pensions. Future service is a matter for the pensions board and its actuaries, but dioceses are aware of the extent of their liability and are confident that the necessary funds can be raised.
 Mr. Bell : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his suggestion, which I should like to pass on to others.
 Mr. Stuart Bell (Second Church Estates Commissioner) : The Church Commissioners are conscious that the millennium is both an inclusive national celebration and a significant Christian anniversary, and the Church is seeking to ensure that the religious and spiritual nature of the year can be appropriately reflected within the context of the new millennium experience.
 Mr. Bell : My hon. Friend and I share a common heritage—we both come from mining families and our fathers went to work with candles. The dome is in the hands of the Minister without Portfolio, my hon. Friend the Member for Hartlepool (Mr. Mandelson)—capable hands, but not those of the Church Commissioners.
 Mr. Bell : I am glad to see the right hon. Lady in her place and I am happy to endorse the right hon. Gentleman's statement. I should add that every church bell in the land will be rung at noon on Saturday 1 January 2000 for five minutes, followed by 10 minutes of prayer which will be open to all. In relation to the architecture to which he referred, these buildings are a testament to the Church, and as commissioners we shall work with Ministers to ensure that that remains the case.
 Mr. Rapson : I thank my hon. Friend for that reply. Does he agree that, traditionally. Great Britain has been a world leader in the development of new technology in the defence sector, that we are much less successful when it comes to exploiting those industries commercially, and that there is a need to facilitate a transfer of technology from the defence sector to the defence industry? When the new defence diversification agency is eventually set up, will both those factors be taken into account?
3.  Mr. Rapson : When he plans to publish his plans for a defence diversification agency. [11736]
 Mrs. Alice Mahon  (Halifax) : I congratulate my right hon. Friend on the speedy way in which he has reacted to a tragic and serious situation. The women who suffer from this killer disease—the real foot soldiers—realise that the situation exposes the stupidity of introducing an internal market in the national health service.
 Mrs. Browning : I shall not detain the House long, because, as was outlined on Second Reading and in Committee, the Opposition recognise that the Government are building on a measure introduced by the previous Government. Therefore, we have no objections to the measures that the Minister has outlined tonight. I noticed, however, that his opening remarks about the Dearing report were somewhat defensive. Since we first debated the matter, the Government's response to Dearing has become clear and students'
 78
 Mrs. Angela Browning  (Tiverton and Honiton) : We have no objections.
 Mrs. McGuire : I represent the people of Dunblane.
 Mrs. McGuire : No, I will not give way.
 Mrs. Anne McGuire  (Stirling) : Does the hon. Gentleman recognise that nearly 1 million people signed the Snowdrop campaign's petition, which asked the House to consider a ban on all handguns without any exceptions?
 Mrs. Anne McGuire  (Stirling) : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that, after Hungerford, an opportunity was not taken, in the interests of safeguarding minority rights, and because of that we had Dunblane?
 Mrs. McGuire : I had not intended to speak, but, having listened to what has been said, I should like to make a few comments in view of the fact that this will, we hope, be the last occasion that we discuss firearms for a long time.
 Mrs. McGuire : It is not a cheap comment. I ask the hon. Gentleman to come and say that in the small city of Dunblane in my constituency.
 Mrs. Dunwoody : Will my right hon. Friend ensure that the excellent statement on public-private finance in the annual report of the NAO is drawn to the attention of all hon. Members so that they do not forget that the taxpayer has a vested interest when looking at all alternatives to the use of taxpayers' money to find out whether better value might be provided by remaining within the state system?
 Mrs. Ewing : Will the Secretary of State advise the House how critical the issue of the NATO nuclear capability has been in those discussions?
 Mrs. Margaret Ewing  (Moray) : Why?
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley  (South-West Surrey) : I thank the Secretary of State for his statement. As I was the Secretary of State who commissioned and began the implementation of the Calman report, I obviously take a special interest. The right hon. Gentleman is right to say that, increasingly, the general public will be more demanding and discerning about quality assurance, and one of his challenges will be how he can deliver and meet that growing expectation. I urge him to visit the Jarvis centre in Guildford, a breast screening service of great excellence, and one of the early centres.
 Caroline Flint  (Don Valley) : I thank my right hon. Friend for presenting the report, especially just after the end of a month in which breast cancer awareness has been at the top of the agenda—last week, I was happy to publicise that with women Members on both sides of the House. Does he agree that, in their lifetime, one in 12 women may be affected by breast cancer? Only recently, he opened the Jasmine centre at Doncaster royal infirmary, which shows the way ahead in dealing with the problem. It offers one-day, one-stop testing and diagnosis. That is how we should treat and deal with the problem for the 21st century. The centre has got off the ground only with money from this Government after the general election.
 Caroline Flint  (Don Valley) : I begin by thanking you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for the opportunity to raise the problems relating to unadopted roads, and by thanking my hon. Friend the Minister for being here to address the subject. 87 "since without the approval of all the frontagers concerned the work cannot proceed."
 Caroline Flint : My hon. Friend is quite right. People would like their sense of inequality and injustice put right. I hope that the Minister will address that today.
 Caroline Flint : I thank my hon. Friend for that contribution.
 Caroline Flint : I thank my hon. Friend, and I thank Lily for helping us to drop such an important name into the debate.
 Caroline Flint : I thank my hon. Friend for that contribution. Yes, that is position. People come to me, as the Member of Parliament, for my help in putting their case. I am grateful to my hon. Friends who have seen fit to participate in this debate and who, having done so, will be seen by their constituents as supporting them on this important issue. 90
 Caroline Flint : I thank my hon. Friend for his further intervention. He is right. If householders, private utilities
 89
 Caroline Flint : I thank my hon. Friend for pointing that out. As a student of the university of East Anglia for three years, and having lived in one of the outlying villages, I know full well the problems in Norwich and Norfolk. I am pleased that so many of my hon. Friends are present to support me in what is clearly a national debate of major importance. This is not a parochial issue: it affects the rural parts of our constituencies.
 Fiona Mactaggart  (Slough) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Helen Jones : Does my hon. Friend commend the concern of the hon. Member for New Forest, West (Mr. Swayne) about the effectiveness of the Territorial Army? Will my hon. Friend invite him to show similar concern for the effectiveness of the Regular Army by withdrawing the disgraceful remarks he made in last week's defence debate, which constituted a slur on the professionalism of men and women in our armed forces?
 The Minister of State, Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Ms Hilary Armstrong) : I am responding to the debate in place of the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions, my hon. Friend the Member for Hampstead and Highgate (Ms Jackson), and I apologise for her absence. As a fellow Minister in the Department, I hope that hon. Members will accept that we have discussed this issue and I am responding on behalf of the Department. 91
 Ms Armstrong : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. 92 93 94
 Kate Hoey : My hon. Friend is right. 59
 Kate Hoey  (Vauxhall) : I support everything said by the right hon. Member for Berwick-upon-Tweed (Mr. Beith). The amendment is reasonable and the House should support it. I opposed a total ban on guns because I felt that we should have given the Cullen report a great deal more thought. I also felt that it would do nothing to deal with the problem in my constituency—and, indeed, other constituencies—of the constant use of large numbers of illegally held weapons.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. It does not help our proceedings if audible devices are brought into the Chamber.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. If I am on my feet, the hon. Member must resume his seat. He has now corrected himself. He has already made a number of speeches in the House, and that is a point of procedure that he should have absorbed by now.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman must not quote non-ministerial Members of the other place.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Does the hon. Member wish to hear my response to his point of order?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I am grateful to him for bringing the matter to the attention of the House. I am sure that it has been noted by the Serjeant at Arms. If there appears to be any sign of difficulty, I may be a little generous in the time that I allow for the Division. [Mr. Alun Michael.]
 The Chairman of Ways and Means (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : With this, it will be convenient to discuss Government amendments Nos. 2 to 5.
 Sir George Young : The House will have heard and welcomed the Minister's apology for his unwarranted attack on my hon. Friend the Member for Salisbury (Mr. Key)—no doubt that particular weapons system will not be deployed again from the Government Front Bench. In view of the implications for jobs and, indeed, for foreign exchange, is the Minister able to give the House a date by which the Government will have reached the previous Government's target for processing export licences?
 Sir George Young : For the record, our support for Eurofighter is total and unqualified.
 Sir Sydney Chapman : While welcoming that statement, may I urge the hon. Gentleman to ensure that
 17
35.  Sir Sydney Chapman : What plans the Church Commissioners have to mark the millennium. [11770]
6.  Mr. Gamier : What discussions he has had with the Secretary of State for Health about the use of the private finance initiative to finance new capital projects in the Scottish health service. [12043]
30.  Dr. Tony Wright : If she will make a statement on the future work in modernising the House. [12023]
 Dr. Wright : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend for that answer. I congratulate the Committee and my right hon. Friend on the excellent work that they have already done, which can be seen in the quality of the Order Paper before us today.
 Mr. Jones : We have to inform the House that the numbers voting "Aye" in Division No. 79 yesterday on the Third Reading of the Education (Student Loans) Bill were reported in error by us as 283. The number voting "Aye" was 293.
 Hon. Members : Oh!
 The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Dr. John Cunningham) : Later I will welcome the right hon. Gentleman and congratulate him on his appointment, but now I will intervene as briefly as I can. The right hon. Gentleman was a Treasury Minister in the previous Administration. Did they make any provision for continuing that support in this financial year or next year?
 Dr. John Cunningham : Whose fault is that?
 Dr. John Cunningham : Please draw to a close.
 The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Dr. John Cunningham) : I beg to move, To leave out from "House" to the end of the Question, and to add instead thereof:
 "deplores the neglect of the countryside and rural areas over the past eighteen years by the previous administration; congratulates the Government on its commitment to the countryside; welcomes the Government's intention to create the conditions necessary to let the rural economy flourish, to protect and enhance the rural environment and to enable everyone to enjoy the countryside; and further welcomes the start already made, notably on the reform of the CAP, the review of the Organic Aid Scheme, introducing Arable Stewardship, and reviewing the legislation for the protection of hedges and SSSIs." 185
 Dr. Cunningham : Nevertheless it is true, although the right hon. Gentleman refuses to acknowledge it, that the previous Government made provision for one year and one year only. They made no on-going provision for this expenditure. That is the reality. 186
 Dr. Cunningham : Not for the moment.
 Dr. Cunningham : The right hon. Gentleman made a long speech and has already made two interventions. I shall get to the substance of the matter quickly—a lot more quickly than he did.
 Dr. Cunningham : No, not for the moment.
 187 188
 Dr. Cunningham : It is a bit rich for a former Treasury Minister to call it an accounting exercise. Does he think that we do not have to keep the books? Is that what he proposes?
 Dr. Cunningham : I shall not give way again: I have given way three times already. I am not having any more of his long, boring, convoluted interventions thank you very much.
 189
 Dr. Cunningham : No, I shall not give way for the moment. We shall deal with these issues.
 Dr. Cunningham : The right hon. Gentleman flatters himself.
 Dr. Cunningham : The right hon. Member for Fylde suggested that I had failed to talk to farmers about HCLAs.
 Dr. Cunningham : HLCAs, that is right. I met Sir David Naish and his colleagues to discuss this subject just last week.
 Dr. Cunningham : Yes, and my Scottish colleagues met Scottish farmers, the Secretary of State for Wales has met farmers in Wales and the same will happen in Northern Ireland. When that round of consultation has finished, we shall discuss the outcome. The right hon. Gentleman's suggestion that we have already made up our minds about these matters is completely bogus: I have said no such thing.
 Dr. Cunningham : No money from the existing budget has been taken by the Treasury. I shall find out whether the assertion of the right hon. Member for Fylde is true, and we can then consider it. I am not convinced that it is true, but we shall see.
 190
 Dr. Cunningham : We know there are problems. I would be the first to acknowledge that there are pretty serious problems, because I represent hill farmers. The idea that we can resolve those problems within six months of taking office, or provide the resources on the scale that the right hon. Gentleman pretends is possible, is frankly absurd, and people know that.  [Interruption.]
 Dr. Cunningham : I absolutely agree with my hon. Friend. I know that in some of the dales in my constituency, where there were once five or six farms, there are now one or two. People have left the land and others have bought the farms and amalgamated them
 191
 Dr. Cunningham : I am not giving way any more. That provision for one year only was coincidentally in the year before a general election.
 Dr. Cunningham : I am not giving way any more. 192
 Dr. Cunningham : No, 1 am not giving way again. It is clearly a waste of time to do so. The right hon. Gentleman did not suggest extra taxation or transferring resources from anywhere else. As I have said, he has tried to get through the debate without putting any price on his proposals. "policies to protect small village shops and rural post offices"
 Dr. John Cunningham : That was before BSE.
 Dr. Cunningham : The right hon. Gentleman should not compare prices now with prices before the BSE crisis. That is just a cheat.
 Dr. Fox : When the Secretary of State meets his European colleagues, will he explain why the Scottish Office will have to pay for the fourth year of education for Greeks and the southern Irish but not for the English or the Northern Irish? Will he use the argument of his Minister for Education and Industry—that the English are rich and can afford it? If so, how would he categorise the Germans?
 Dr. Lynne Jones  (Birmingham, Selly Oak) : All that the right hon. Gentleman has said is quite correct. I think that Dearing was absolutely shocked to discover that, although there had been a great increase in the number of people going into higher education, the number of those from lower socio-economic groups had hardly gone up at all. Does the right hon. Gentleman therefore accept that it was a mistake for his Government to move from full maintenance grants to 50 per cent. loans?
 Dr. Lynne Jones : It would be interesting to know whether Conservative Members accept Dearing's recommendation on the move to resource accounting. In that regard, I wish my right hon. Friend good luck in his negotiations with the Treasury because, as he admitted, beyond 1998–99, unless there is a change of that nature, we shall have difficulty in giving the extra resources to universities, the £165 million that Dearing recommended—
 Dr. Jones : May I briefly ask my right hon. Friend what his projections are for 1999–2000? As he is aware, the extra £165 million was obtained by rephasing student loans.
 Dr. Lynne Jones : I understand the hon. Gentleman's point, and I have some sympathy with it. The fact is that, according to Barclays' student survey, on average, parents give £631 to their children at university in excess of the parental contribution. It is clear that students from poor families are not receiving that money, so those from affluent backgrounds are receiving far more than £631. The reality is that rich families will not allow their children to start off life in debt, but poor families have no choice.
 Dr. Lynne Jones  (Birmingham, Selly Oak) : Thanks to the previous Government, we now have mass higher education in this country—well, that is the case for some groups. Sadly, and worryingly, that does not apply to
 157
 Mr. Godman : In our criminal justice system, the definition of a vulnerable person includes both a child and a person with learning disabilities. Does my right
 96
 Mr. Ancram : Following the question of my hon. Friend the Member for Tewkesbury (Mr. Robertson), does the Secretary of State consider that the Scottish criminal justice system was well served by the shoddy Jason Campbell transfer affair? Will he explain why he has been able only to give a holding answer to the 11 simple, factual questions on the matter that I tabled for priority answer more than a week ago? Will he come clean about who took the original decision to transfer Campbell and whether at any stage he consented to that transfer? Does he realise that failure to come clean merely serves to heighten the stench of cover-up and political manipulation that permeates the incident and can only damage the integrity of the Scottish criminal justice system, which he has a duty to protect?
 Mr. Ancram : Does the Minister agree that concern about resourcing local councils is balanced by concern about the way in which some of them, including Renfrew and Glasgow, use those resources to conduct their affairs? Does he agree that allegations of sleaze against those councils are rightly matters of public concern? In that context, could he explain why the Secretary of State has not responded to my calls to set up public and independent investigations into the allegations? Does he not realise that in these days of Labour spin doctoring, internal party investigations will carry no credibility? Will he set up a public investigation, or is he frightened of what that public investigation might reveal?
 Mr. Ancram : The hon. Gentleman misheard me. I said that Edinburgh university is very worried. I have spoken to a number of senior people there recently. In the few moments that remain, will he take the opportunity to answer the question from the hon. Member for Ochil (Mr. O'Neill) about the fairness of the policy that he is introducing in Scotland?
 Mr. Michael Ancram  (Devizes) : This has been a worthwhile, interesting and revealing debate. We heard a maiden speech by the hon. Member for Blackpool, South (Mr. Marsden) on which I congratulate him. I say in a friendly way that I look forward to the days when the conventions of the House allow us to hit back at his speeches.
 Mr. Ancram : The hon. Gentleman might count the proportion of Members on the Government side compared with the proportion on our side. One of the difficulties of having a very large majority is that questions such as the
 162 "Labour has no plans to introduce tuition fees for higher education." 163 The Scotsman "would matter less, of course, if Mr. Wilson's job did not matter so much. Yet whether making a hash of statutory appraisal, a botch of national testing, a mess of nursery vouchers, being posted missing during the gap year fiasco, or making a spectacle of himself over tuition fees, Mr. Wilson has at least been consistent in his attitude to opposition: he is right until proven wrong." 164
 Mr. Ancram : The Minister may say that, but it was he who argued last week that the numbers were insignificant. He argued that all that mattered in Scottish education was that Scottish students were supported and devil take the hindmost. If he denies that, what robust calculation has been made about the overall viability of Scottish higher education institutions if students from England, Wales and Northern Ireland stop coming? How many would be threatened with closure? Where would the closures take place? Again, the Minister laughs, but there are people in the Scottish higher education system who predict that that will be the outcome of his policy.
 Mr. Ancram : The hon. Gentleman is closing his ears to what is being said by the principals of the Scottish universities. We have heard evidence from St. Andrews university that the number of students applying from England is going down as a result of the policy. If he is to be worthy of his office, he must stop blocking his ears and treating the matter with the arrogance of his talk of hyperbolic nonsense. He must start listening to those who know about higher education in Scotland: those who have to operate within it.
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (North Essex) : Hear, hear.
 Mr. Jenkin : It is not fair, is it?
 Madam Speaker : I shall want to know the full situation. The hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Bercow) said that he would write to me about the matter. I shall look into it and respond. I have no idea how many hours or days the President of the Board of Trade spent in her office, and I cannot be expected to respond until I have undertaken my research. I open my mouth in the House only when I have a proper answer to give, not to state something that I imagine.
 Madam Speaker : Thank you. I shall see that the correction is made in the  Journal
 Madam Speaker : I must inform the House that, on the two motions tabled by the Opposition, I have had to limit Back-Bench speeches to 10 minutes. I have selected the amendment standing in the name of the Prime Minister.
 Madam Speaker : The hon. Gentleman must give me details of such a situation. I cannot give him a yes-or-no answer without being fully informed of what he is talking about, which I am not at present.
 Madam Speaker : I wish there were. I shall let the hon. Gentleman into a little confidence, if I may. When the Scottish Office team were leaving, I observed that we did not make the progress on Scottish questions that I had hoped we would. That being so, I make the general point that I hope that we shall make better progress in future on Scottish questions. Perhaps I can be helped by Back Benchers as well as those on the Front Benches. Perhaps, also, those on the Treasury Bench will let the Scottish Office team know what I have said.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman has been allowed the time allocated to him under Standing Order No. 24. I have, of course, listened carefully to what he has said. As the hon. Gentleman knows, I must give my decision without giving any reason for it. I regret that I do not consider that the matter raised is appropriate for discussion under the Standing Order. I therefore cannot submit the application to the House.
 Mr. Allan Rogers  (Rhondda) : I crave the indulgence of the House, because I wish to speak on another aspect of the rural economy, which has nothing to do with farming. I speak with reasonable authority, because I was a professional geologist when I had a proper job. I emphasise at the beginning that more than 100,000 people are involved in the minerals extraction industry in this country, much of which is based in rural areas and which contributes enormously to the rural economy. 196 197
33.  Mr. Bennett : If she will introduce proposals to start sittings at 2 pm on Thursdays. [12028]
 Mr. Bennett : I thank my right hon. Friend for that reply. Does she accept that one of the great successes of the Jopling Committee—I am speaking as one of the few remaining Members of Parliament who served on it—was to convince the House to be flexible with its sitting hours? If the Opposition are so keen to scrutinise constitutional matters on the Floor of the House, will my right hon. Friend give some thought to the possibility of the House sitting on Tuesday and Thursday mornings? Does she accept that, if we sat half an hour earlier on a Thursday, we could rise half an hour earlier? It would make a tremendous difference if those who must travel back to the north of England, Scotland and Wales could leave at 6.30 rather than 7 pm and thus avoid the difficult scramble to get trains and planes.
 Mr. Andrew Lansley  (South Cambridgeshire) : Does my right hon. Friend agree that confusion was left trailing in the wake of the various U-turns, in that there were further anomalies, as with my constituent who intended to have a gap year but waited until her A-level results had confirmed her university place, and found that she was excluded arbitrarily from the Government's concession?
 Mr. Rowe : Does the Minister accept that a high proportion of the young people who need most help will enter the scheme well behind many of the other applicants? My inquiries in England show that the scheme makes no serious provision for lengthening the training for backward young people. Will he look into that problem?
 Mr. Welsh : The Labour policy of underfunding local services is increasing council taxes and massively cutting services, with more cuts to come, quite apart from the massive increases in water service charges. What sort of financial deal is that for Scottish consumers and tax payers?
 Mr. Andrew Welsh  (Angus) : The hon. Member for Barking (Ms Hodge) accused the Tories of being more shameless in opposition than in government. Her party could be accused of exactly the opposite. In carrying out Tory policies, it seems more shameless in government than it was in opposition. The main issue in this debate is quite clear: Tory hypocrisy matched by Labour hypocrisy. The losers are the students of Scotland, England, Wales and Northern Ireland. 151
 Mr. Welsh : The Scottish National party rejects tuition fees and wants to return to student grants. In an independent Scotland we would maintain the Scottish tradition from which the hon. Gentleman benefited. We are opposed to student loans and tuition fees. I am ashamed that our generation, which benefited from that grant system as part of the traditional education system Scotland, is imposing massive debt on future generations of students. It is something about which both he and I should be ashamed.
 Mr. Welsh : Far from it, I was pointing to the parts of the Dearing report which the Government and the Opposition have chosen to introduce. I was also clearly and exactly pointing out to the Minister the SNP's view. In dividing the House last night, we were against not only the privatisation of student loans but student loans on principle. I recommend that the Minister returns to the traditional view of the Scottish education system from which we both benefited and which he is withdrawing from vast swathes of the Scottish population. 152 153
 Mr. Andrew Welsh  (Angus) : Will students' supplementary allowances continue to be in the form of a grant, or will they become a loan that is repayable?
 Mr. Welsh : May I draw to the Minister's attention my great concern that supplementary allowances being in the form of a loan might act as a massive time bomb in the further education system? It would deter anybody with parental responsibilities—mature students, for example—from undertaking studies. That threatens great potential harm to the entire further education system, so I hope that the Minister will take those concerns on board.
 Mr. Kirkwood : Does the Minister accept that high-quality training opportunities should be made available also to young people in rural areas? Will he assure the House that the £300 million programme—which is welcome for a scheme that we support so far as it goes—[HON. MEMBERS: "Not 'scheme."] Not a scheme—a programme. Will he assure the House that that £300 million will not be sucked into the central industrial belt? Since there are sanctions in the programme, which worry some of us, will he give an absolute guarantee that people in rural areas will not have those sanctions applied where transport costs are the only thing that makes them turn down opportunities which otherwise would be available to them?
3. Mr. Cash : If he will make a statement on his functions within the Council of Ministers. [12040]
 Mr. Cash : At the moment, the devolution proposals in the White Paper set out a series of devolved functions and reserved functions will be proposed by the devolution Bill. We also have a Human Rights Bill before the House of Lords and the European Communities (Amendment) Bill will come before the House of Commons next week. If there is a contradiction between the policy to be
 99
34.  Mr. Bill O'Brien : If she will move to provide for an additional Sub-Committee of the Environment, Transport and Regional Affairs Committee to consider regional affairs; and if she will make a statement. [12029]
 Mr. O'Brien : I thank my right hon. Friend for that response, and I congratulate her on the way in which the Select Committees were established so soon after the general election. I raise the issue of a Sub-Committee for the regions because much importance is attached to the development of the regions. I believe that we should reach a statutory agreement on the way that we approach the regions question. We should be able to take specific evidence to a Sub-Committee regarding the Government's progress in implementing and introducing regional agencies. Against that background, I ask my colleague to consider the matter, which is important to people in the regions.
 Mr. Bill Rammell  (Harlow) : I am new to the customs of this House. Is it customary for only 12 Opposition Members to be present for the summing up in an Opposition day debate?
10.  Mr. Donohoe : What progress he has made in respect of the proposals to reduce the number of health trusts in Scotland. [12047]
 Mr. Donohoe : I am grateful for that reply. What savings have already been made in the trusts in Scotland since the Government were elected? Will my hon. Friend give an assurance that that efficiency drive will continue?
 Mr. Wilson : We are alert to the particular needs of people in rural areas. Some 400 people are eligible for the 18-to-25 aspect of the new deal in the borders and, by definition, they are spread out among a large number of communities. It is therefore entirely right that the hon. Gentleman should ask for the provision to be tailored to those individuals and to the characteristics of the area. Transport is important and should be built into the programme; one of the reasons for choosing Tayside as a pathfinder area is that it encompasses urban and rural areas.
 Mr. Wilson : I endorse my hon. Friend's comments. It is essential for the credibility of the welfare-to-work programme that everybody agrees that quality is the watchword. Young people are understandably sceptical, because they have seen various schemes come and go without much improvement in their prospects. It is essential to transcend the credibility gap if the welfare-to-work programme is to be a success. The watchword for that is co-operation and we are consulting widely with everybody who will be party to the programme, including local authorities.
 Mr. Wilson : I am grateful to my hon. Friend not only for his comments, but for the hard work that both he and my hon. Friend the Member for Dundee, East (Mr. McAllion) are putting into this programme. The pilot areas are crucial to getting things right under welfare to work. In Tayside, as in the pilot areas in the south, the genuine problems and challenges that exist can be ironed out. We must get it right. The private sector is fully involved in Tayside, as is the local enterprise company and all the partners involved in delivering welfare to work with the Employment Service. There is a real opportunity and the Government are putting more than £300 million into the programme in Scotland alone—an indication of how seriously we take it. If we all work together, we have a one-off chance to break the curse of long-term unemployment once and for all.
 Mr. Wilson : I have established a rule in Scotland—although I do not expect the hon. Gentleman to know about it—that we do not call the welfare-to-work programme a scheme. Incidentally, we also do not call people backward. An extensive programme is built into the gateway, which is crucial to getting everybody working by advising individual clients of the best possible option for them. I am sure that the hon. Gentleman wants that to succeed. For people with special difficulties in finding employment, we have a further education option to enhance their employability. Leaving aside his terminology, the hon. Gentleman is right to address the problems that such people face and we will address them through the new deal. I should be delighted to give him further information if he requires it.
 The Minister for Education and Industry, Scottish Office (Mr. Brian Wilson) : Quality will be built into all aspects of the new deal. Rigid monitoring will ensure that standards are maintained in training and in every other aspect of the welfare-to-work programme.
 Mr. Wilson : Merely on a point of clarification, I take it that, contrary to what the hon. Gentleman may have just led the House to believe, he is not endorsing Dearing on anything.
 The Minister for Education and Industry, Scottish Office (Mr. Brian Wilson) : To clarify the matter, is the hon. Gentleman endorsing the Dearing recommendations on tuition fees?
 Mr. Wilson : I did not laugh; I looked astonished because the right hon. Gentleman knows something about Scotland and cannot possibly believe that what is proposed will have a significant effect on the number of students who come from outside Scotland to Scottish universities, not least because more than half of them will not be touched by tuition fees at all.
 Mr. Wilson : Shame.
 Mr. Wilson : The hon. Gentleman says that it is not fair, but we are not talking about what is fair to me or to the Government. We are talking about the fact that it is not fair that people from less well-off backgrounds should be frightened away from higher education by the irresponsible scaremongering of people such as him.
 Mr. Wilson : I shall come to that later in my speech. I am sure I will satisfy my hon. Friend that those fears have been greatly exaggerated. 166 [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
 Mr. Wilson : The hon. Gentleman says, "Hear, hear," but the tragedy, the disgrace and ultimately the hypocrisy of tonight's debate is that the previous Government did not provide the money to follow the students. As a result, Scotland has 44 per cent. participation in higher education, but the funding per student—the money that follows the student into higher education—has dropped by 40 per cent. under the Tories. That is what created the crisis in higher education.
 The Minister for Education and Industry, Scottish Office (Mr. Brian Wilson) : This debate has been a great intellectual reinforcement of what we are doing. 165
 Mr. Wilson : If Opposition Members will stop baying and guffawing for a moment, I shall be delighted to do so, but leopards cannot change their spots and I very much doubt whether they will do so.
 Mr. Wilson : Most of them have only just woken up, so they have a lot of energy to get rid of, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Wilson : Let us be clear about gap funding. There was a statement on gap funding at the conclusion of the discussions on it. However, there was no U-turn because there was no initial statement of the opposite— [Interruption.] 167 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Wilson : The hon. Gentleman clearly wants to use up part of the three minutes that remain. I shall not give way to the silly man.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Wilson : What we are witnessing is a veneer of indignation built on a very deep trough of ignorance, and Conservative Members do not want to hear anything that threatens to expose that ignorance. "if a graduate contribution is introduced, the Secretary of State should ensure that the contribution from Scottish graduates for qualifications gained in Scotland is equitable with the contribution for comparable qualifications gained elsewhere in the UK." 168
7. Mr. Charles Kennedy : If he will make a statement on progress in reducing the Skye bridge tolls. [12044]
 Mr. Kennedy : I thank the Secretary of State for that helpful reply and, through him, wish to express my thanks for the helpful and constructive response of the Lord Advocate in dealing with some of the local implications of the matter. I underscore that there is anxiety that the contract—I appreciate that it does not have the signature of the Secretary of State on it and that the problem is not of his making but was inherited from his predecessor—gives stalling powers to the private company, which I suspect is instinctively none too happy about any toll reduction package and its consequent commercial impact. Does he agree that the matter needs to be re-examined? I hope that the Public Accounts Committee will consider it in more detail in due course. The more we see of the matter, the more it commercially and politically stinks.
 Mr. Charles Wardle  (Bexhill and Battle) : May I assure my hon. Friend that his important message will be endorsed by every sensible thinker in the county? May I link with his remarks about Polegate the importance of the Hastings eastern and the Hastings western and Bexhill bypasses and, with them, the Marsh road link over the Pevensey levels? Those matter to local development as well as to through traffic to and from the channel tunnel.
 Mr. Wardle : As my hon. Friend the Member for Eastbourne (Mr. Waterson) has already asked, how long is all this likely to take?
 Mr. Colin Pickthall  (West Lancashire) : For one and a half hours of a three-hour debate to be taken up by the three Front-Bench spokesman is unacceptable, and an abuse of those of us on the Back Benches who have been trying to get in. Having said that, I was much diverted by the right hon. Member for Fylde (Mr. Jack), who represents probably the flattest constituency in England, lecturing my right hon. Friend the Member for Copeland (Dr. Cunningham), who represents probably the most mountainous, on the problems of hill farming. 202 203
31.  Mr. Pickthall : What consideration she has given to time-limiting all contributions to debates in the Chamber. [12024]
 Mr. Pickthall : Is not one of the most infuriating experiences for any Back Bencher that of, having prepared a contribution for a debate, spending as long as several hours sitting in the Chamber waiting to deliver that contribution, only to find that the opportunity is lost because several senior colleagues, higher up the batting order, have spent 30 or 40 minutes delivering their wisdom to the House? That experience has been the lot of several hon. Members waiting to deliver their maiden speech. Does she not consider that, when many hon. Members wish to speak in a debate, a 20-minute time limit on Front Benchers and a 10-minute time limit for everyone else is reasonable, given that we would need some injury time or time added on?
 The Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. David Blunkett) : That is not true.
 The Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. David Blunkett) : I beg to move, To leave out from "House" to the end of the Question, and to add instead thereof:
 128 "welcomes the decisive response of Her Majesty's Government to the report of the National Committee of Enquiry into Higher Education and to the crisis of funding in higher education bequeathed by the previous administration; notes with approval the new arrangements for supporting students, including fair repayment arrangements and targeted help for the most disadvantaged; and welcomes the commitment to ensuring that more people will have opportunities to participate in high-quality education to their benefit and to the benefit of the country as a whole."
 Mr. Blunkett : In a moment.
 Mr. Blunkett : The hon. Gentleman may be surprised to learn that, even before the election, I gave the previous Government credit for their one commendable action in respect of higher education—to open up access, which they subsequently sealed by introducing a cap that stopped students entering university even if they had the required standard and capacity to do so. 129
 Mr. Blunkett : I have not pretended for a minute that we have found for the coming year the amount of money that Sir Ron Dearing had in his checklist. I do not duck that issue at all. We have identified resources from our own Budget, in imaginative ways that previously were not available, which fall within the Government's overall control totals, and which allows us to get the programme into being from September 1998, and immediately to trigger in from 1999 onwards the savings—and therefore the income—which otherwise would not be available. "I congratulate the Government on the statement … the Government have taken a courageous decision, which should be supported by everyone who has universities' interests at heart." "I welcome the general thrust of the Dearing report and much of what the Secretary of State said". "The Secretary of State is to be congratulated on grasping some of' "radical aspects, including the deferred contribution of students to tuition fees."—[ Official Report 133
 Mr. Blunkett : The difficulty is that further education students are currently denied the opportunity of contingent loans, never mind grants; therefore the contribution made by 2 million adult further education students across the United Kingdom is inequitable in relation to full-time undergraduates. That is one of the issues that we seek to address. We have said that higher national diploma students currently in their courses will not be disadvantaged. In addition, a proportion of the money—£1 million from the £165 million—will be allocated next year to ensure that they are not disadvantaged. "simply another vague promise that will be delivered some time or never".—[ Official Report
 Mr. Blunkett : The additional allowance that we have agreed to make in order to overcome hardship—the extra £250 a year, for which we do not appear to have gained as much credit as I had expected—will be part of the overall loan system. That loan system results in families not having to find more than they currently have to find, because the maintenance and fees elements are bolted together imaginatively to ensure that that is so. The doubling of access funds ensures that provision will be made directly available for those in greatest hardship. 130
 Mr. Blunkett : The previous Government introduced a mortgage-type loan scheme that demanded draconian repayments of up to £129 a month over five years as soon as the trigger came. We propose an income-contingent loan scheme, repayable over a lengthy period of up to 23 to 25 years, according to an individual's income. It is a progressive principle, espoused by all those—including my colleagues—who believe in the progressive principle of income tax. In that way, students will receive resources when they need them without an up-front top-up fee payment, and will pay back when they can afford it. I am happy to produce other figures and put them on the internet so that everyone can share them.
 Mr. Blunkett : This may have arisen from a misunderstanding by the shadow Secretary of State for Education and Employment. The figures do not involve a doubling. Students in London must already pay back an increased loan. That was part of the previous Government's grant reductions, which is why I find the shadow Secretary of State's eulogy in respect of grants a bit difficult to take. The previous Government eroded grants year after year: 10 per cent. followed by 10 per cent. followed by 10 per cent.—a 40 per cent. real-terms cut in the amount available in grant. It has been instructive this afternoon to see the shadow Secretary of State say that he whole-heartedly agrees with a non-means-tested £1,000 contribution to fees.
 Mr. Blunkett : I shall give way to the hon. Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough (Mr. Willis), whom I had the pleasure to hear on my local radio station demonstrating in my great city on Saturday.
 Mr. Blunkett : I shall address myself entirely to the first part of the hon. Gentleman's question. He asks whether there is fear, and there is. 1 want to confront that fear head on. Fear is generated by misunderstanding about what the Government will introduce. There is fear among those who believe that they will have to pay top-up fees, when we have explicitly ruled them out. There is fear among people who believe that they will have to find the money immediately rather than paying it back over a
 135
 Mr. Blunkett : I am intervening so that we do not start with the hares running. The balance that we have achieved between the maintenance and the fee structure is such that people are not being asked to contribute more as a result of the means testing of the family than they do at present. I would be grateful if the hon. Gentleman would concede that that is the case, and that therefore we are not imposing some additional, theoretical burden that makes it more difficult for families to contribute than it is at present.
 Mr. Blunkett : No, I am not answering questions.
 Mr. Blunkett : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for her good wishes and support in this matter. I have indicated that the immediate yield from the new proposals would have been £50 million in 1999–2000 from Dearing and £100 million under our proposals. We are discussing with colleagues in the Treasury a plan to enable us to ensure that the universities are not disadvantaged and that—as I am sure that hon. Members would want—further education is supported and enhanced as well. It is very important that, in the wider debate, we see higher education in terms of lifelong learning, which has been grossly neglected.
 Mr. Blunkett : My hon. Friend the Minister for Education and Industry, in winding up this afternoon's debate, will respond directly on issues relating to the decisions taken by the Scottish Office, but—
 Mr. Blunkett : I shall finish my sentence and then give way to the shadow Secretary of State. We are talking about the 25 per cent. of students who would have had to pay the full premium, because others would have had it ameliorated or alleviated anyway; and we are talking
 134
 Mr. Blunkett : I can now see why the right hon. Gentleman got himself into such a tangle when he went to Scotland before the general election, to talk about constitutional issues. The Scottish Office is responsible for the university sector in Scotland; that is the historic difference in terms of responsibilities for education in our country. That was before the referendum, of course; it has nothing to do with proposals for further decentralisation and devolution, welcome although they are. That is why I referred to my hon. Friend the Scottish Office Minister responding at the end of the debate.
 Mr. Curry : It does not seem a cheat to farmers. The prices affect their income, what goes into their bank balances, their collateral, what the bank manager has to judge. If the right hon. Gentleman told farmers at Craven auction mart that they should not compare prices because it is a cheat, it would not help their bank balances or their livelihoods. 194 195
 Mr. Curry : The right hon. Gentleman knows that I represent hill farmers. He represents hill farmers. I am concerned about their situation now, and appealing to him to do something about it. He understands it.
 Mr. David Curry  (Skipton and Ripon) : I should like to draw the attention of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to the real situation in agriculture as seen in my constituency, which is a fragile one of uplands and difficult farming, where there are some of the most difficult conditions in the United Kingdom. What he has said in this debate will not bring one crumb of comfort to farmers in my constituency who fear for their livelihoods. 193
 Mr. David Drew  (Stroud) : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. David Drew  (Stroud) : Because of the shortage of time allocated to me, I shall concentrate on the planning issue, following the right hon. Member for Suffolk, Coastal (Mr. Gummer), who talks a lot about planning and about brown-field development. The problem is that when he was Secretary of State for the Environment, he did not take the opportunity to question the figure of 4.4 million households that was quoted, and he made no proposals on how brown-field sites might be pressed into use. Now we are confronted with a very difficult problem, which we shall in due course debate and study to search for solutions. 207
 Mr. David Maclean  (Penrith and The Border) : Perhaps in the course of his remarks my right hon. Friend will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food not whether there was a provision but whether he even asked the Treasury for something for HLCAs.
 Mr. David Ruffley  (Bury St. Edmunds) : Does the Minister agree or disagree with the comments of the hon. Member for Sheffield, Central (Mr. Caborn), who said that the green belt is up for grabs—yes or no?
 Mr. David Taylor  (North-West Leicestershire) : Will the hon. Gentleman condemn with me the action of
 209
11.  Mr. Canavan : If he will make a statement about progress of the Government's plans for a Scottish Parliament. [12048]
 Mr. Canavan : I congratulate my hon. Friend and the Secretary of State on the leading part that they played in achieving a magnificent victory in the referendum campaign. Now that a Scottish Parliament is on its way, does my hon. Friend agree that it would be wrong for this Parliament to pre-empt decisions on matters that will be the responsibility of the Scottish Parliament? Therefore, will the Government refer the issue of student grants and student fees to the Scottish Parliament, which will take a more enlightened view than this place does?
 Mr. Skinner : Is it not a bit rich for Tory Members to complain about not having sufficient time to consider legislation and about the Government's introduction of guillotines when the House of Commons would have risen at about 7.30 pm one night last week if a succession of Labour Members had not kept the debate going until its usual 10 pm completion? Last night, that great Opposition—as they like to call themselves—allowed the House to rise at 8 o'clock. I have news for them: in the old days, we used to sit all night at least once every week—and sometimes we would have two or three all-night sittings a week. I cannot stomach the idea that Tory Members are so anxious to get away from this place that they cannot stay the course. In the old days, Members of Parliament used to be here for many more days. There is a bit of hypocrisy.
 Mr. Browne : A new prison is to be built in my constituency. Welcome as the job opportunities it brings are, I believe that it is about time we moved on from the Tory obsession with prison building and longer sentences. Is it not about time that we started looking at law and order in a much wider context? Is it not a sad reality that the consumption of alcohol is closely related to crime and criminal behaviour? Is it not important, and probably more effective, to have proper public health programmes and social programmes to tackle the causes rather than to concentrate only on prison building and sentencing?
 Mr. Swayne : The Secretary of State participates in the United Kingdom Government's EU decision making as of right. My reading of the White Paper is that the Scottish Parliament will do so by invitation. How will Scotland's voice be heard when the United Kingdom Government and the Scottish Parliament disagree? Can the Minister avoid giving me the same answer that he gave to my hon. Friend the Member for Stone (Mr. Cash)—that we shall always agree?
 Mr. Swayne : Is my right hon. Friend aware that, when the Secretary of State for Scotland was asked precisely that question not half an hour ago, he replied that he would not have to explain it to Germans or Greeks, because they understood the obligations of the European Union? Perhaps the Secretary of State for Education and Employment could explain to students from Ringwood, Lymington and New Milton why they will be charged an extra £1,000 that will not be charged to Greeks or Germans.
 Mr. Desmond Swayne  (New Forest, West) : Will my right hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Don Foster  (Bath) : I entirely agree with the shadow Secretary of State that we need a clear statement from the Secretary of State on ring fencing. He has stated that the Conservative party's policy is clear—it is to accept Dearing in its entirety, including the £1,000 non-means-tested fees, regardless of income, for all parents. For the sake, therefore, of Tory party unity, will the right hon. Gentleman condemn the Tory party candidate in the Winchester by-election, who has just produced a leaflet which says: "Gerry Malone has thrown his weight behind Winchester's students in their campaign against the introduction of tuition fees"
 Mr. Foster : The Government's plan seemed to be that they would hit the ground running, but if they want to do that, they should plan the route first.
 Mr. Foster : I concede that point to the Secretary of State, but the mechanism for the collection of the money is now quite different. There is an additional layer of bureaucracy, with the student being responsible for making that payment, in addition to the local education authority fee contribution. That increase in bureaucracy concerns me.
 Mr. Don Foster  (Bath) : There is clearly much disagreement in the Chamber about the Government's proposals for the future funding of higher education. However, it is important to place on record the fact that there is also much agreement. 136
 Mr. Foster : I have some sympathy with the hon. Lady's view. I do not think that anyone can remove all the inequalities in society. It is a great pity that the hon. Lady makes that point yet supports a Government who are not prepared to change income tax regulations. We proposed helping to remove inequality by increasing the upper rate of income tax in order to support those who are less well off. I am delighted to see that the hon. Lady supports that move, even if her colleagues do not.
 137 "'Gap year' students starting in the 1998/99 academic year whose places have been confirmed by 1 August 1997 will be treated as other students starting in the 1997/98 academic year." 138
 Mr. Foster : It is frightening how the Labour party has to operate. It asks various hon. Members to ask questions, but does not give them a proper briefing. If the hon. Lady had done her homework, she would know that 18 months ago the Liberal Democrat party changed its policy position. We did it openly and honestly, in a public debate within our party. We made it clear in the resolution that we passed at that time, which I will quote to the hon. Lady, that we would
 "provide state funding for tuition fees for all courses up to and including first degree level, including"— "part-time courses."
 Mr. Dewar : I have some sympathy with what my hon. Friend says. As the daily prison population in Scotland has risen very substantially, causing considerable problems for the Prison Service, it is important that we should examine sensibly the alternatives to custodial care. That is not a soft option, as Conservative barrackers will shout, but a matter of prevention and of dealing with matters such as alcohol abuse properly; hence the new powers on drinking in public places that we have introduced and our attempts to improve facilities for treating the alcohol problem both in and out of the prison system. We are also considering other measures, such as the tagging system. That was once controversial, but I believe that it is right to have pilot tests in Scotland.
 Mr. Dewar : On present plans, some 700 extra prisoner places will be created over the next five years.
 Mr. Dewar : We are, of course, looking carefully at the Crime and Punishment (Scotland) Act 1997 and we have implemented some of the important provisions we felt were justified and could be implemented immediately. The hon. Lady has referred particularly to parole. I am not in favour of implementation of the changes at this stage because I have respect for the Prison Service and because we need to ensure that inmates have an incentive to behave well and to obey the rules. We had very unfortunate experiences in the past—the hon. Lady is, like me, enough of a veteran to remember them—when that incentive was destroyed and I would not like to revisit that experience. We will use our judgment and consider what is right for the criminal justice system of Scotland, for the public and for those working in the system.
 
Mr. Dewar : As the hon. Gentleman recognises, we face a problem in that respect, although it is perhaps not as acute as in other parts of the United Kingdom. That is not an excuse for ignoring or not attempting to tackle it, but I am chary of setting arbitrary dates because I am aware of the increase in the prison population. While the Bowhouse project and the 700 places in the next five years to which I referred should take much of the strain, it may be that the impact on time cannot be exactly judged for the reasons that I have given. I spent some time yesterday with the Parole Board, which brought me sharply face to face with the problems that it encounters and the stress of its increasing work load. I pay tribute to its work, which is largely unsung and often unappreciated by the wider public.
 Mr. Dewar : I offer this consolation to the hon. Gentleman. Although the details have been difficult and the negotiations have taken longer than I would have liked and are not yet complete, it is fair to say that they were entered into in good faith after an agreement in principle about what we are trying to achieve. I hope that we will not have too long to wait before I can report success in the matter. The important thing is to ensure that we get the discounts, which will be a considerable advantage to regular users, in place as soon as possible. The Public Accounts Committee will consider the technicalities of the contract and the National Audit Office report, but as
 104
 Mr. Dewar : Since my announcement on 4 July, which was widely welcomed, negotiations have been in progress about the changes to the very complex agreement that we inherited. The principle of reducing tolls is accepted by the parties, but the matters of detail are taking longer to finalise than I had hoped. I am, however, confident that I shall be able to announce the introduction of discounted tolls at an early date.
 Mr. Dewar : I say with some sorrow that the hon. Gentleman is becoming more gloomy about the state of human nature almost by the year. I do not see that irreconcilability built into the system. As he well knows, there is a United Kingdom delegation. No doubt differing points of view can on occasion be discussed, but common ground is reached and everyone joins to put the United Kingdom's case. Exactly the same process will occur. The United Kingdom remains the member state of the EU and the Scottish Executive will have an input in the formulation of policy. When an agreed policy position has been reached, it will be the job of the whole delegation to ensure that it is successfully pursued. I look forward to the opportunities that this process presents.
 Mr. Dewar : My functions within the Council of Ministers are those of any other Minister of the Crown—to discuss, negotiate and conclude agreements on behalf of the UK Government.
 Mr. Dewar : I do not think that I will have to explain that point to my European colleagues because they will know that the matter is founded on the European agreements and is a responsibility that we accept as a member of the European Union. I am sure that the hon. Gentleman would want us to recognise our obligations. We are anxious to ensure that there is opportunity in Scottish higher education. That is the point of the changes that are being introduced—to finance and make possible the expansion that we all favour so that this nation can remain competitive and flourish through the depth of its talent and its innovation.
 Mr. Dewar : I accept the importance of the United Kingdom fishing industry and that of its Scottish component in particular. My noble Friend Lord Sewel was recently in Europe at a Fisheries Council meeting and will no doubt recognise and press that point. 100
 Mr. Dewar : I am anxious to reflect properly the views of the business and commercial community in Scotland. I take the view—it may be thought to be partisan, but it is well founded—that it is easier to defend our position on Europe than the negative and, I would have thought, untenable position on which the Opposition are determined to stand.
 Mr. Dewar : I am sorry that the right hon. Gentleman should take that rather indignant line. In a previous political incarnation, he had much experience of prison transfers and of the wider implications for the Northern Ireland peace process. We will answer his questions, of course, but he should recognise that everyone acted in good faith in this matter. I have made that clear continually. I take responsibility for what happened and I have made that clear also.
 Mr. Dewar : The application by Jason Campbell was made under the Criminal Justice Act 1961. Requests for transfers in the prison system are not uncommon and there is a normal route by which they are dealt with. I naturally regret the fact that, on this occasion, wider considerations meant that consideration of the details of the application was not perhaps as thorough as it might have been. We have instituted a very thorough review of the circumstances and exactly what happened. As a result of that, we are ensuring that there will be ministerial consideration of all transfers between prisons jurisdictions in the United Kingdom. That will, I hope, ensure that there are no difficulties in future.
 Mr. Dewar : I liked the judicious use of the words "persuaded my predecessor" of the value of the proposition. I do not want to be coy, but I do not want to steal anyone else's thunder. If the hon. Gentleman looks at Question 13, he will see that it is of direct relevance to the matter. He has not long to contain his curiosity.
 Mr. Dewar : I certainly have a great deal of Sympathy With What my hon. Friend says. I recognise that he has a long and proven track record of interest in such matters, especially the way in which children and young people are dealt with in the judicial system. I accept entirely that their protection is very important. They must not be put in a position where pressure can—perhaps inadvertently—be brought to bear on them. I am certainly happy to discuss with my hon. Friend how we can improve on present performance.
 The Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Donald Dewar) : Our overriding priority is to enable the people of Scotland to live in safety under the protection of the law. We are taking measures to prevent crime, detect offenders, deal with cases quickly and efficiently, assist witnesses and victims of crime and reduce the likelihood of reoffending.
 Mr. Gorrie : Does the Minister agree that the Government's insistence on keeping to Conservative spending plans will cause severe cuts in essential services in almost all councils, as they follow year after year of cuts, and that it will be even worse if the Government require some councils to help to bail out others, such as Glasgow, which have a funding deficit?
4. Mr. Gorrie : What representations he has received about the resources required by councils to provide their statutory services. [12041]
 Mr. Garnier : Until 1 May, the Labour party opposed the PFI. What has made it change its mind?
 The Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mr. Elliot Morley) rose
 Mr. Morley : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Ernie Ross : My hon. Friend will know that Tayside is a pilot area and that the local authorities, the chamber of commerce and local employers have all been involved. More important, the young people who will be part of the new deal have also been involved. The report card for Tayside shows that Bob Alexander and his Employment Service team have done a marvellous job.
 98
 Mr. Gordon Marsden  (Blackpool, South) : I am most grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate. History Today, 144 145 "CVCP accepts that the proposed funding system is realistic and necessary to secure the future of higher education in the UK: CVCP particularly welcomes the introduction of the new income-contingent loans scheme for maintenance."
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : Is it not hypocritical of the Minister to talk in those terms when Labour inherited a bill for £3.5 billion arising from the BSE disaster?
 Mr. Graham Brady  (Altrincham and Sale, West) : The Secretary of State referred to my hon. Friend the Member for Wantage (Mr. Jackson), who described the right hon. Gentleman's decision as "courageous". That called to mind the excellent comedy programme "Yes. Minister". My recollection is that when Sir Humphrey used "courageous" in relation to his Minister's decision, he meant something quite different. Perhaps the Secretary of State should take that as a warning rather than a sign of encouragement. 142 143
 Mr. McLeish : I shall set aside the cynical and pessimistic tone in respect of the future of a Scottish Parliament, and instead make it clear that the creation of a Scottish Parliament will enhance our participation in European Union activities. I made the point earlier that members of the Scottish Executive will participate in meetings of the Council of Ministers and in full discussions with the United Kingdom Parliament and Government on aspects of policy. The hon. Gentleman has simply got it wrong.
 The Minister for Home Affairs and Devolution, Scottish Office (Mr. Henry McLeish) : The Government's policy on involvement by Scottish Executive Ministers in meetings of the EU Council of Ministers is set out in the White Paper "Scotland's Parliament". That reflects full collective discussion and agreement.
 Mr. McLeish : I reflect on the comments made by my hon. Friend. We are optimistic that our position vis-a-vis Europe will be enhanced, not diminished, by the advent of devolution and a Scottish Parliament. It will provide for participation in Council of Ministers meetings and in developmental policy; it will provide much more time in the Scottish Parliament to discuss European Union affairs and for more effective scrutiny; and, of course, it will give us the possibility of a representative office in Brussels to
 106
 Mr. McLeish : It is not wise to speculate in the House. The current responsibilities of Scottish Office Ministers will be transferred to the new Parliament and to the new Executive. It is important to reinforce the Government's central message: that, in our judgment, doing that will enhance the activities of agricultural affairs in Scotland vis-a-vis Europe and in relation to the many pressing issues that we confront in our day-to-day activities in Scotland.
 Mr. McLeish : My hon. Friend will accept the notion I hope, that we must continue to govern. The Scottish Parliament will have a substantial agenda, but hard choices and decisions that have to be made now will have to be taken. This is the first time that we have been able to celebrate in the House the magnificent victory of 11 September. It is important for the Conservatives to remember that 2.44 million Scots and people living in
 108
 Mr. McLeish : Our proposals to establish a Scottish Parliament will be introduced in the House as soon as possible. We are also making progress in finding a site for the Parliament. I can today announce that three design feasibility studies have been commissioned into the possible sites at Calton hill, Leith and Haymarket, and quantity surveyors have been commissioned to prepare independent costings. We have also appointed consultants to undertake a transport and environmental impact assessment of the options.
 Mr. Bruce : I am grateful to the right hon. Gentleman for giving way again, but he appears to miss the essential point: the debt will be at least doubled under his proposal.
 Mr. Ian Bruce : I apologise to the right hon. Gentleman if the information was available. However, under his proposals, a student studying for four years in London will, at today's prices, take out a loan in excess of
 131
 Mr. Ian Bruce  (South Dorset) : Is my right hon. Friend aware that the Government did not publish their suggestions on how loans are to be paid back until the last day of the Labour party conference? To obtain that information on the day of the conference, Labour Back Benchers had to access it through the internet. The proposal was that, as soon as people earn £10,000 they will have to pay 9 per cent. of their income towards their loan. A student who has been on a four-year course will probably be paying back the loan for 30 years.
 Mr. James Arbuthnot  (North-East Hampshire) rose in his place and claimed to move
 Mr. James Wallace  (Orkney and Shetland) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. You will recall that on Question 1, I asked the Secretary of State for Scotland whether he was able to make an announcement about criminal cases and the review authority for Scotland. I was told to exercise some patience, because his hon. Friend the Minister of State would reveal all when answering Question 13. Of course, we did not reach Question 13. Is there any chance of extra time, Madam Speaker?
 Mr. Wallace : Although the Minister for Education and Industry is responsible for Scottish universities, the Secretary of State is ultimately responsible to local authorities for student awards and student payments made by students in England and Wales who attend Scottish universities. The Committee of Scottish Higher Education Principals is expressing considerable concern that the change might frighten away a number of students from England and Wales, to the extent that it says that it could threaten the survival of courses, departments and even, in the long run, whole institutions. Will the Secretary of State acknowledge that that matter should be looked at again in terms of English, Welsh and Northern Ireland students attending Scottish universities?
 Mr. James Wallace  (Orkney and Shetland) :  rose
 Mr. Wallace : The secretary of State may recall that, in the dying days of the Previous Parliament, my hon. Friends and I persuaded his predecessor to include in the Crime and Punishment(Scotland) Act 1997 Provisions which would improve the criminal justice system in Scotland by setting up a criminal cases review authority. Given that there have been much-trailed announcements of State in a Position to make an announcement to the House today?
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : It is a pleasure to add my tribute to the maiden speech of the hon. Member for Blackpool, South (Mr. Marsden). It was a witty, stimulating and intelligent contribution, of which he can be justly proud. He referred to the availability and calibre of bed-and-breakfast accommodation in Blackpool. If my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke) were here, he would be able readily to testify to the accuracy of those comments, as the accommodation that he found in Blackpool was both high quality and extremely cheap. I am sure that the House will join me in looking forward to many future contributions of comparable calibre from the hon. Gentleman. Evening Standard "Labour has no plans to introduce tuition fees for higher education." "We are quite clear that tuition costs must be met by the state."
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Is it in order for the President of the Board of Trade to refuse to answer a parliamentary question—in this instance, from my right hon. Friend the Member for Wokingham (Mr. Redwood)—even though to provide an answer would entail only 10 minutes of the right hon. Lady's diary secretary's time, and would involve neither excessive expense nor any risk to our national security?
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) rose
 Mr. Bercow : Does my right hon. Friend agree that it is curious that the hon. Members for Rochdale (Lorna Fitzsimons) and for Enfield, Southgate (Mr. Twigg)— both former prominent activists in the student movement and long-term opponents of tuition fees—have suddenly, and without explanation or apology, become supporters of the Government's policy? Does he agree that it is therefore significant that both hon. Members are absent from the Chamber?
 Mr. Bercow : I should like to test just how the Secretary of State fares on the amnesia count. Is he prepared now, on the record, to acknowledge that the expansion of higher education under the previous Conservative Government was dramatically greater than any that occurred under the Labour Administration between 1974 and 1979? Does he acknowledge that fact or does he seek to deny it?
 Mr. Bercow : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Bercow rose
 Mr. Bercow : My former hon. Friend, Mr. Malone, was an outstanding Member of Parliament, and I am certain that, after 20 November, he will be so once again. 160 161 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Gummer : I thank the right hon. Gentleman for giving way. Will he help us on the question of the £200 million underspend? Does that underspend exist? If so, could he apply it? We are not asking him to say now whether he will apply it. Has that £200 million already been taken by the Treasury? If he could help the House, we would know whether or not he has the money.
 Mr. Gummer : The right hon. Gentleman is frit.
 Mr. Gummer : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. John Gummer  (Suffolk, Coastal) : I wonder whether my right hon. Friend is being slightly unfair to the Minister. Surely the Minister is holding his meeting back until he can welcome the representatives of the farming organisations into his new offices, having spent £1 million of taxpayers' money tarting them up so that he can have a meeting. He does not want to have a meeting any earlier as there might then be suspicions that the refurbished offices are merely for his own interests and not to be shared by anyone else.
 Mr. Gummer : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Gummer : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Gummer rose
 Mr. Gummer : The hon. Gentleman knows perfectly well which right hon. Friend I am referring to. He knows as well as I do that Liberal Democrat party policy on the countryside depends entirely on the constituency— [Interruption.] 205
 Mr. Gummer : No, I really should not give way because I promised to be brief. There will be plenty of time for summing up. 206
 Mr. Gummer : I should tell the hon. Gentleman who is rushing to the Minister's aid that I was not about to say something rude. I was simply going to mention why previous Agriculture Ministers always had that figure at their fingertips. 1 knew that if I did not have it, the Treasury would have pinched it and I wanted to defend it against the Treasury. I always knew the figure because the Treasury was always out for any little "candle ends", as it would say. I am worried that, if the current Agriculture Minister does not know the amount, it has probably gone already because the Treasury will have got its sticky fingers in there very rapidly.
 Mr. Gummer : No, I have only 10 minutes.
 204
 Mr. John Gummer  (Suffolk, Coastal) : I would go along with much of what was said by the hon. Member for West Lancashire (Mr. Pickthall), especially his remarks about the need to protect the countryside from large-scale incursions of new housing. I wish that the Minister for London and Construction were here, because this is one of the few areas of environmental affairs where the present Government have departed significantly from the position that obtained before. The Minister said that we were naive to say that those 4.5 million houses could be built on brown land. Despite his attacking me for naivety, I am happy to be as naive as the Round Table on Sustainable Development and the Council for the Protection of Rural England in saying that we should be siting at least 75 per cent. of those new homes on brown land. I should like us to go further than that.
 Mr. John Gunnell  (Morley and Rothwell) rose
 Mr. Home Robertson : I suppose that my right hon. Friend has a certain advantage in the Council of Ministers in that he shares the commitment of the rest of the Government to achieving the benefits that will flow from a successful single European currency. Will he convey the views of businesses in Scotland on that subject to all the factions in the Opposition?
8. Mr. McAllion : What recent discussions he has held with the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities relating to the financing of Scottish local government. [12045]
 Mr. McAllion : My hon. Friend will know that the funding mismatch imposed on Scottish local government by Tory reorganisation, allied to the middle-class drift away from cities such as Dundee and Glasgow to adjoining areas with lower council taxes, has left city councils trying to provide what is effectively a regional level of service from a greatly reduced council tax base. Therefore, may I congratulate my hon. Friend on facing those hard realities by trying to broker with COSLA a financial settlement that is fair to all of Scotland? Will he take the opportunity to denounce the simplistic, divisive and dishonest spouting of those who claim that spendthrift councils are being bailed out by penny-wise councils?
 Mr. Swinney : Will the Minister speculate that, if the bovine spongiform encephalopathy crisis had occurred after the establishment of the Scottish Parliament, a Minister for agriculture responsible to the Scottish Parliament would have had the power to negotiate a separate deal for the agricultural community within Scotland?
 Mr. Jonathan Sayeed  (Mid-Bedfordshire) : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Sayeed rose
 Mr. Sayeed : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Robertson : I thank the right hon. Gentleman for that answer. I am sure that he will want to confirm that it is his intention that the Scottish criminal justice system should be seen to be independent and free from political manoeuvres. If so, will he explain the context of the transfer of Jason Campbell from a Scottish prison to the Maze in Northern Ireland?
1.  Mr. Laurence Robertson : What are his priorities for the Scottish criminal justice system; and if he will make a statement. [12038]
 Mr. Öpik : The hon. Lady is right to suggest that the Government should not cherry-pick from the Dearing report. Is she saying that, if she were in government, she would not cherry-pick, but would commit £350 million next year and £565 million the year after to higher education? If so, can she explain where she would find that money?
 Mr. Lembit Öpik  (Montgomeryshire) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Lembit Öpik  (Montgomeryshire) : The right hon. Gentleman mentioned the environment. Surely it is most important for the rural environment to remain inhabited. Neither the Government nor the official Opposition have expressed concern about family farms and smallholdings, which are under great threat. Geraint Jones, a farmer, wrote to me and said— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Chisholm : I thank my hon. Friend for drawing attention to the position of Dundee council. As I said in a previous answer, there will be losers and gainers from the changes to the social work formula that are in the pipeline and the phasing out of the mismatch. Without those changes, quite apart from other factors, Dundee council tax payers would face an increased band E tax of £85 next year, council tax payers in Aberdeen would face an increase of £75 and those in the Western Isles would face an increase of £200—far more than in Glasgow. We have taken action because we believe that council tax payers must be protected from the extreme changes in council tax that flow from distributional changes. We support that, as do COSLA and the vast majority of council tax payers across Scotland.
 Mr. Chisholm : The Government are committed to creating a strong and stable economy. A fundamental way of doing that is to make sure that we put public finances into good order in the early stages of the Government. That is why we said at the election that we would keep within overall public expenditure planning totals during our first two years in office. Even within that, we have managed to find £89 million more for education in Scotland, an extra £26.7 million for capital spending on schools in each of the next four years, and an additional £12.5 million this year and £43.7 million next year for housing. That demonstrates the Government's commitment to local government.
 Mr. Chisholm : Unlike the previous Government, we recognise the serious problems of Scottish housing, which were highlighted by the recent house condition survey. We have already taken action on a whole range of fronts to begin to tackle the problem. We announced the awards for the rough sleepers initiative to deal with the visible problem of people sleeping rough on the streets—an extra £16 million was provided for that purpose. We have already put £2 million into the empty homes initiative this year and there will be more next year to deal with the problem of empty homes. We have also earmarked £10 million this year for new housing partnerships and a much larger sum next year to lever in private money to complement the public resources that we are committed to putting into housing. That significant action has been warmly welcomed by the housing lobby across Scotland.
 Mr. Chisholm : Pay agreements are a matter for local authorities and their work forces. Local authorities know that we are committed to existing expenditure guidelines, apart from the extra money that I mentioned earlier. As I am sure that the hon. Gentleman knows, our general policy on a minimum wage is that the Low Pay Commission will advise on the rate for that in due course.
 Mr. Chisholm : My right hon. Friend and I have discussed the financing of Scottish local government with the convention on a number of occasions. The most recent meetings were held on 13 October and 3 November. We next meet the convention on Friday 7 November.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Malcolm Chisholm) : My right hon. Friend and I have met a number of councils to discuss their financial positions. We have also received letters on the subject from hon. Members, local councillors and members of the public.
 Mr. Chisholm : Neither the media nor the hon. Gentleman have understood the issue perfectly. Our proposals have nothing whatever to do with helping Glasgow, with the effectiveness of service delivery in any one authority, or with taking existing resources away from any authority. 101
 Mr. Chisholm : The social work changes to which my hon. Friend refers are an important component of the distributional changes. It is right to recognise that there has been controversy about that, but the consensus view is that the changes should be introduced, but further reviewed. We will continue to review and monitor the social work changes and we will continue to review distributional formulas across the board. [HON. MEMBERS: "Who loses?"] There will be some losers and some gainers in terms of distribution. That will affect not service levels, but council tax levels—and it is council tax payers whom we are determined to protect.
 Mr. Chisholm : There are no grounds for setting up a public investigation because there has been no breach of statutory duty. The Labour party, however, is taking firm and decisive action as a party on all these matters. Moreover, the Government have responded positively to the Nolan committee report on aspects of local government conduct. Following consultation, we will introduce and announce measures that flow from that. In terms of delivery of service, the best-value regime instituted by the Government will result in the continuing better use of resources in local government.
 Mr. Martin O'Neill  (Ochil) : On the question of funding, is my hon. Friend aware that some of the small to medium-sized institutions such as Stirling, 31 per cent. of whose student intake comes from outside Scotland, are extremely worried? Can he give the House an assurance that due account will be taken of that, as we could experience a drop in student numbers and places not being filled as a consequence of the fourth-year rule? Will he bear that in mind in his calculations?
 Mr. Connarty : Does my hon. Friend accept that one of the topics that he mentioned, and one that is often
 105
 Mr. Fallon : Does the settlement with COSLA for next year make any provision for a minimum wage for council workers, and what is it?
 Mr. Jack : I am glad that the hon. Gentleman anticipates a rapid change of Government that would translate me immediately to the other Dispatch Box. Would the hon. Gentleman not have afforded that degree of support to farmers as a result of the BSE difficulties? It was right and proper to support the farmers at a time of considerable stress. It is no use Labour Members mocking me. Successive Ministers of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in the former Conservative Government followed the scientific advice that they were given and acted properly in the interests of food and farming. They fought our corner in Europe until Professor Pattison's announcement. This debate is not solely about BSE, but I am happy to discuss the matter with the hon. Gentleman—perhaps on a Wednesday morning—and to defend our position robustly. [Interruption.] Grower 178 "deplores the neglect of the countryside and rural areas over the past eighteen years". "congratulates the Government on its commitment to the countryside". "the Government's intention to create the conditions necessary to let the rural economy flourish". "enhance the rural environment and to enable everyone to enjoy the countryside".
 Mr. Michael Jack  (Fylde) : I beg to move,
 That this House expresses its concern about the economic and environmental pressures currently affecting the rural economy and rural life; calls upon Her Majesty's Government to respond to this situation by protecting farmers from the effects of the appreciation of sterling, withdrawing the Government-imposed ceiling on the weight of cattle entering the BSE over thirty months scheme and undertaking without precondition discussions with farmers and their representatives about the level of payments to be made through the 1997–98 Hill Livestock Compensatory Allowances scheme; and condemns the proposals to extend access to the countryside by means of a legal right to roam rather than voluntary agreement, not to introduce policies to protect small village shops and rural post offices, to create urban-based regional development agencies, to weaken planning controls designed to protect the Green Belt and the countryside, and to threaten the pursuit of traditional country sports. 177 "To examine the contribution of HLCAs towards meeting the objectives identified and to examine any other options for achieving those objectives more cost effectively or in ways which otherwise minimise public expenditure"— "and maximise the positive impact on the economy." "The consideration of possible options should not be limited to agricultural support measures."
 Mr. Jack : I thank my hon. Friend for his intervention. I tried to find out what the Minister of State said at the Great North Meet. According to a newspaper report,
 "Mr. Rooker told the Great North Meet in North Yorkshire that `there is better news floating around the system than there was in the summer. "will not walk away from hill farmers—because we recognise the contribution they make to the upland landscape, the countryside"
 Mr. Jack : My right hon. Friend is right. That is why under the fundamental expenditure review I concentrated on the fact that the Minister had already given it away before he started on the current exercise of not listening to the hill farmers. I do not think that he bothered to ask the Treasury, and he should speak to his own accounting officer. I shall try to help him out later and find him some money, as I have done a little homework on that.
 180
 Mr. Jack : As the right hon. Gentleman is not a Treasury Minister, I suggest that he goes back to the Red Book, where he will find that there is a year-on-year increase. I will explain later how he can easily afford that within his budget, as he will also know the way in which the European public expenditure survey works. Let us have none of this nasty business of tripping me up at this stage. I suggest that the Minister does his homework and goes back and looks at the Red Book, where he will see that for the next financial year there is an increase, not a decrease, compared with this financial year.
 Mr. Jack : My right hon. Friend is right. Given that the hill farmers are struggling to keep a roof over the Minister's head, I am sure that he has taken careful note of what my right hon. Friend has said. "We in the Labour Party recognise how important this payment is to hill farmers. We recognise the important role hill farmers have, both in terms of rural employment, environmental management and tourism. In that respect we do believe that HLCAs do offer very good value for money and we will strongly oppose any move by the government to reduce them." "Let me confirm straightaway that the Government is committed to the idea that hill farmers need special help". "I know from my own constituency that incomes are under pressure". 183
 Mr. Jack : It is all very well for the Minister to ask whose fault it is. The Minister is responsible for these matters and he represents the Government's views. The Opposition are asking questions on behalf of Britain's farmers in the rural community, and he owes them an answer. If the Minister is not prepared to compensate across the board, is he prepared to focus on the hardest-hit sectors? I am thinking especially of beef, sheep and dairy. Milk prices have fallen substantially and given the appreciation of sterling there is considerable import pressure. Surely the right hon. Gentleman can bring himself to focus on the genuine needs of the sectors to which I have referred, given the circumstances that I have described. 182 "This has been a difficult year for cattle farmers in the less-favoured areas." Farmers Weekly "There can be no other way to describe the government's decision to abandon hill farming to the chill winds of market economics. It has delivered two, possibly fatal, body blows to the future of hill farming."
 Mr. Jack : The Minister asks me to draw to a close. When the truth is hurting the answer is no—I shall continue to give the Minister information.
 Mr. Jack : The hon. Gentleman should look at a map, and he should listen to the voices of disillusion, especially from the hills. He would realise that people understand the message from the Opposition. 181
 Mr. Jack : My hon. Friend makes a powerful point. I know that my hon. Friend the Member for South Suffolk will deal with that matter when he winds up. 184
 Mr. Jack : Is that the best that the right hon. Gentleman can do when it comes to dealing with those on the lowest incomes, such as the hill farmers?  [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
 Mr. Jack : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Jack : I am grateful to the Minister for giving me this opportunity. Perhaps between now and the close of the debate he will ask his officials to look at the underspend on the sheep annual premium, which possibly amounts to some £200 million. Will he also confirm that if he wishes to apply to the Treasury, he has, with its agreement, the ability within his budget to redirect the money to cover the £60 million shortfall on HLCAs?
 Mr. Jack rose
 Mr. Jack : I have already supplied an answer to the question of hill livestock compensatory allowances. With great respect, the Minister has not read our motion. We asked him how he intends to respond to the calls from farmers, particularly hill farmers, on these issues. So far, all we have had is an accounting exercise. The Minister will not answer the questions that we posed.
 Mr. Jack : For English farmers.
 Mr. Jack : HLCAs.
 Mr. Jack rose
 Mr. Jack : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Jack rose—
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Lady's time is up. I call Mr. John Bercow.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Lady's time is up.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I think that the hon. Lady is one of those who is seeking to speak later. This is not helping the debate along. Will she bring her intervention quickly to a close?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I remind the House that speeches have been limited today to 10 minutes for Back Benchers because time is very limited. That means that all interventions should be extremely brief.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I think that the hon. Gentleman is now correcting himself.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. There is far too much noise from the Opposition Front Bench.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Before I call the first speaker, I inform the House that Madam Speaker has selected the amendment in the name of the Prime Minister. I remind the House that there is a 10-minute limit on Back-Bench speeches.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. There is far too much noise in the Chamber. I expect Opposition Front-Bench Members to set a good example.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The right hon. Gentleman is not giving way.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. There is a lot of noise in the Chamber. The only voice that I should hear is that of the Minister.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Dr. Cunningham.
 Mr. Nick St. Aubyn  (Guildford) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Blackpool, South (Mr. Marsden) on his maiden speech. It was a great pleasure to listen to him. I have listened to him before today. He mentioned the towers of Blackpool and Millbank. In my memory are the towering spires of Oxford where we were together. I can tell that we shall have as many amicable differences in the future as we used to have in the past. 146
 Mr. St. Aubyn : I cannot help noticing that those Liberal Democrats who have spoken so far are passionately against the Government's proposals. It will be interesting to see whether their leader resigns from his Cabinet Committee as a result. Is this yet another example of Liberal Democrats saying one thing while they do something completely different?
 Mr. St. Aubyn : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. St. Aubyn : No, I shall not give way again for a while.
 Mr. St. Aubyn : The hon. Gentleman is completely off beam because we are talking about the growth in the loan book, not the sale of the old loan book. 148
 Mr. Nigel Waterson  (Eastbourne) : I am delighted to have the opportunity to raise an issue of massive importance to my constituency and to East Sussex. It is of no small importance to those of my colleagues who made the trek to Eastbourne recently for what the press deemed to be our bonding session. It is a great pleasure to see the Minister in her place, with her minder. "The A27 is a vital artery for Sussex." "There are significant safety gains to be made from the provision of a modern dual carriageway", 222 "Proposals to develop a Polegate bypass have been inextricably linked from the very beginning with the construction of the A22 new route from the A27 at Dittons to Seaside, Eastbourne as part of an overall strategy for the Eastbourne area." "the Orders for the A22 should be confirmed unless the Polegate Bypass was removed from the National Roads Programme." "The strategy for sustainable development in East Sussex would be fundamentally undermined if the proposed trunk road improvements in the county associated with the Weald and Downland Network DBFO package were now to be withdrawn … Such a decision would have a devastating impact on the county's prospects for economic recovery." 223 "The cancellation of a new A27 Lewes to Polegate trunk road was a major consideration in our decision to relocate … from Eastbourne to Tonbridge." "We have continued to invest in the area because of the previous Government's commitment to improving the road system. However, if this commitment is now not to be honoured, we will be forced to consider relocation of our factories which will result in an increase in unemployment for Eastbourne and Hastings."
 Mr. Waterson : My hon. Friend is absolutely right—this is a seamless robe of projects that hang together. "I think there is little doubt that until the Bypass is built our client's development, which has planning consent which would create 250-500 permanent jobs will not go ahead." "I now consider it is time for the silent majority in Polegate who are concerned about the lack of a dual carriageway By-Pass around the town to relieve the intolerable noise, vibration and air pollution problems experienced by residents, to speak up."
 Mr. Waterson : My right hon. Friend and I have received correspondence on this subject from many of the same companies. The Times, "a compensation bill of more than £6 million". 224 "Improvements in standards of routes have been forecast to bring accident savings" "Lamberhurst Bypass, Polegate Bypass and the A259 Hastings schemes would remove through traffic from settlements"— Sussex Express, "a decision on the Polegate bypass could be further delayed" "the Polegate scheme is one of eight 'case studies' to be reappraised in an attempt to find a better way of taking decisions on new roads."
 Mr. Owen Paterson  (North Shropshire) : Further to the first point of order, Madam Speaker. The question was a simple one, based on how many days the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry had spent in her office between 1 August and 5 October. May I have the exact criteria for not answering the question? I understand that national security or excessive cost must be involved. Tracking down the Beckett family caravan surely does not fall into either of those categories.
 Mr. Tyler : Will the President address the question of the possible implications of recommendations of the Modernisation Committee that she chairs—a Committee on which I have the pleasure to serve—for the way in which our staff are employed in the House? They give very loyal and very efficient service to the House, but in recent months there have been notable failures in consultation, especially with the doorkeepers and, I understand, with the postal staff. Can the President give us an absolute assurance that no changes to the ways in which the House proceeds will be implemented without proper consultation with the appropriate staff?
 Mr. Tyler : I agree very much with my hon. Friend and I hope that the Under-Secretary will examine that point when she replies. "RSPB believes that maintaining wildlife is entirely compatible with better living standards for rural communities: a healthy countryside and strong local communities go hand in hand.
 201
 Mr. Tyler : Which one?
 Mr. Tyler : That is the case in many less-favoured areas. We look to the Minister to live up to the impression that his predecessors gave when in opposition, that they would be the hill farmers' champions. 199
 Mr. Paul Tyler  (North Cornwall) : As you know, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I am a last minute stand-in for my hon. Friend the Member for Ross, Skye and Inverness, West (Mr. Kennedy) who is undertaking duties in the Standards and Privileges Committee. Any shafts of wisdom in the next few minutes come from me, while anything of a more prosaic nature comes from my hon. Friend's script. 198
 Mr. Peter Atkinson  (Hexham) : My right hon. Friend will realise that hill farm incomes have fallen by 20 per cent. Recently, farmers in Northumberland tackled the Minister of State, the hon. Member for Birmingham, Perry Barr (Mr. Rooker), to ask what he intended to do about hill livestock compensatory allowance payments. The Minister replied:
 179 "I thought there was some better news around—but I have forgotten what it is."
 Mr. Peter Bradley  (The Wrekin) : The right hon. Gentleman commended to the House his Government's stewardship of the countryside over the past 18 years. How would he account for the fact that the landslide on 1 May was almost as impressive in the countryside as it was in the towns? Some 50 seats there fell to the Labour party on 1 May and several more fell to the Liberal Democrats. Can he account for that phenomenon?
 Mr. Peter L. Pike  (Burnley) : Like me, my right hon. Friend has hill farmers in his constituency. The previous Government's failure is shown by the amount of land that has gone out of production and by the number of farmers who have ceased to farm.
 Mr. Willis rose
 Mr. Phil Willis  (Harrogate and Knaresborough) : Is the shadow Secretary of State also proud of the Tory Government's record of a 40 per cent. reduction in spending per student in higher education?
 Mr. Willis : The hon. Gentleman alludes to an important issue which goes back to yesterday's debate. The sale of the student loan portfolio for this year of £1.6 billion and for next year of £1.5 billion, to which the hon. Gentleman correctly referred, was the Conservative
 147
 Mr. Willis : Is not it equal brass neck that a shadow spokesman spells out from the Front Bench the Tories' policy on tuition fees while their candidate in the Winchester by-election says exactly the opposite to students? is not that hypocrisy?
 Mr. Willis : I apologise, Mr. Deputy Speaker. 132
 Mr. Willis : I am sorry. The Secretary of State made the point about—
 Mr. Willis : It was a pleasure to entertain you, Secretary of State. One of the real issues, to which you started to allude, is that of getting resources into our universities. You made the point about—
 Mr. Willis rose
 Mr. Richard Allan  (Sheffield, Hallam) : Does the hon. Lady accept that many parents who are expected to pay parental contributions currently do not do so? There is a qualitative difference between paying for tuition fees and paying for maintenance, because maintenance is controllable, but if those parents who have been assessed as affluent enough to pay for tuition fees do not do so, that is a bar to entering university in the first place.
 Mr. Richard Spring  (West Suffolk) : I beg to move,
 That leave be given bring in a Bill to prohibit the fitting of bull bars to motor vehicles. 117
 Mr. Richard Spring  (West Suffolk) : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Robert Key  (Salisbury) : Does my right hon. Friend agree that some of the principal beneficiaries of the work of the Rural Development Commission are hill farmers, who will need all the help that they can get? The RDC has a fuddy-duddy image: that it is only about thatching, shoeing horses and saddlery. It is not; it is about high-tech help for rural communities and assistance for all rural hill farm communities as well as the wider rural community. Is he aware that the RDC is due for the chop under this Government? What a mean-minded trick.
 Mr. Russell Brown : Will my hon. Friend give the House an update on the current discussions with the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities on the recent study of social work allocations? Will he recognise the need for stability for local authorities? Will he bear that principle in mind when looking to future years?
 Mr. Galbraith : The hon. and learned Gentleman's memory is vague; he is mistaken. The Labour party originated the PFI, and we are developing it. We consider it a useful way to increase capital in parts of the health service. In the health service in Scotland, we have three substantial projects nearing financial completion.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Sam Galbraith) : I meet my hon. Friend the Minister of State, Department of Health regularly. We have on occasion discussed the use of the private finance initiative for financing capital projects in the NHS in Scotland.
 Mr. Galbraith : I am very aware about, and sympathetic to, what the hon. Lady has said. We must avoid what happened last time, when there was a blueprint for the health service in the UK. There are different areas, geographies, social structures and cultures, and we shall have different solutions for those. We shall lay down the principles; it is up to local areas to determine how to implement them.
 Mr. Galbraith : As my hon. Friend will know, at the start of the Government's term of office, we were able to announce £10 million to go towards waiting lists from efficiency savings within the structure of the NHS in
 107
 Mr. Galbraith : I have made clear my intention to reduce the number of trusts in Scotland. There is, however, no pre-determined blueprint regarding the configuration of trusts in Scotland. Any major reconfiguration will need to await the publication of the White Paper on the NHS in Scotland and the outcome of Sir David Carter's review of acute services.
 Mr. Simon Hughes : Will the right hon. Lady look seriously at the way in which we can hold regional offices of Government to account? The Government have a proposal for regional government in London, to take place from 2000, which is very welcome, but not as yet in any other regions of England. Civil servants have no direct accountability to anybody, although across all Departments they wield great power. Will the right hon. Lady allow time for thinking through the implications of the question asked by the hon. Member for Normanton (Mr. O'Brien), as that would be widely welcomed by English Members?
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : 1 share the right hon. Gentleman's criticism of the new Government's change of position and the misleading nature of their comments before the election. Just for the record, can it be made clear whether it is Conservative party policy that students should make a contribution to their fees?
 Mr. Dorrell : I have already said—I was slightly surprised by the quiet in the House as I said it—that it was not a subject of dispute between the Government and Opposition Front-Bench teams that, if we are to see the continued growth of higher education, students need to participate in the financing of that growth. The question is how. The Dearing review examined the central options, which the Government have examined, and recommended against the conclusions that the Government reached. Let us examine why the Dearing review reached the conclusion that it did.
 Mr. Dorrell : The issue is not a great inquiry about what happened over the past 18 years, but what the Government are going to do now. From the point of view of the hon. Lady's question, what the Government are going to do is take the record they inherited and make it
 122
 Mr. Dorrell : The most important thing is to focus on the number of people who have had the opportunities afforded by high-quality higher education. One of the findings of the Dearing review was that the expansion of higher education allowed a dramatically increased number of people to take part, and, furthermore, that they had done so without undermining the quality of the system. That is a Dearing finding with which I agree. "In going through that process"— "we"— "all changed and developed our views: we did not end up where we started." 121
 Mr. Dorrell : My hon. Friend is right about the timing of the publication of the details of that proposal. He is a trifle grudging in his representation of the Secretary of State's political skills. I am certain that the right hon. Gentleman was right to conceal that information from his party conference if he wanted to get the motion passed on the floor. It was a straightforward exercise in political management. 120
 Mr. Dorrell : I thought that I had made it clear that I do not support the Government's proposals, which are the subject of our debate today. It is an old tactic for Government Back Benchers—and the hon. Lady is a skilled exponent of it—whenever the Government are in difficulty, to ask the Opposition what they would do. This Parliament has four and a half years to run, and the hon. Lady should inquire of the Secretary of State how he will deliver the combined objectives of improved access to higher education and equitable access for students from a low-income background.
 Mr. Dorrell : I must move on, but I will give way later. "We believe that" "will enable students to be more demanding of institutions". 123
 Mr. Dorrell : My hon. Friend is an old sparring partner of both hon. Members. It is significant that they have chosen not to attend today's debate to support their U-turn in person. They are too frightened of the authorities in Millbank tower to raise the voices that they have traditionally raised against the policy being advanced by the Secretary of State. "We fear that if public subsidies for maintenance are reduced, the funding released would not be redirected to higher education institutions." The Times Educational Supplement "The issue is sensitive— "because the £165 million package for 1998-99 does not allow universities to keep all the funds raised by the new £1,000 fees as extra income". "they retain £125 million out of an estimated £150 million."
 Mr. Dorrell : My hon. Friend puts his point vigorously, and he is entirely right. It is the same question. if it is good enough for the constituents of some Member of Parliament from southern Portugal, why is it not good enough for the constituents of my hon. Friend in Ringwood? "faced with the prospect of paying 33 per cent. more in fees in Scotland, English and other UK students will simply stay away." "We have been getting a steady flow of cancellations in the last few weeks and the number is growing. Since the start of the week, we have been getting calls from English students to tell us that they aren't even going to bother coming to see us."
 Mr. Dorrell : I have a third question for the Secretary of State, after which I will give way to my hon. Friend. 127
 Mr. Dorrell : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. We might expect a fourth concession, although I would not hold out much hope for his constituent. That is an example of what happens when a Government introduce a policy within hours of a report's publication, without having thought through the details. Financial Times "with the entire sector facing a squeeze, it's becoming increasingly difficult to defend a system which gives extra money to the rich". Financial Times Financial Times 126 Financial Times
 Mr. Dorrell : The Secretary of State says that that is not true. Is he saying that a memorandum circulating
 124
 Mr. Dorrell : I am absolutely delighted to endorse Gerry Malone as the Conservative candidate for Winchester, and I look forward to welcoming him back to the House of Commons as the next Member of Parliament for that constituency. He is right to insist that the Government should explain to the electorate of Winchester how they will deliver the objectives set out by the policy that they have introduced. "This sort of irresponsible scaremongering helps no-one—neither the students, the universities, nor the admissions service." 125 The Times "It's a one-off and not for those who have decided to go off back-packing. It should not be presented as a U-turn."
 Mr. Stephen Dorrell  (Charnwood) : I beg to move,
 That this House welcomes the expansion of higher education which has taken place in recent years; shares the view of the Dearing Committee that a further period of expansion is desirable; believes that part of the cost of this expansion should be met by students themselves, but agrees with the Dearing Committee that means-tested maintenance grants make an important contribution to improving access to higher education for students from low-income backgrounds and deeply regrets the Government's hurried decision to reject this advice; and finds incomprehensible the Government's proposal that students from other EU countries should be able to attend four-year courses at Scottish universities on terms more favourable than those available to home students living in England, Wales or Northern Ireland. 119 [Interruption.] "I made it clear throughout"— "that we should abide by the recommendations of the Dearing committee".—[ Official Report "Labour has no plans to introduce tuition fees for higher education." "We are quite clear that tuition costs must be met by the state."
 Mr. Dorrell rose
 Mr. Dorrell : First, can the Secretary of State confirm that the number of students going from England to Scottish universities and claiming exemption from the first year of a four-year course on the ground of their A-levels is 10 per cent. of all the English students entering Scottish universities? Secondly, does he accept that it is not good enough to say that his hon. Friend the Scottish Office Minister will deal with the matter when he winds up? The Secretary of State is the United Kingdom Education and Employment Minister. We are talking about students who live in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and it is for the Secretary of State to explain why, on behalf of his right hon. and hon. Friends, he supports a policy that discriminates against his constituents.
 Mr. Dorrell : Is the hon. Gentleman aware that last time one of his ministerial colleagues with responsibility for education spoke about irresponsible scaremongering, Baroness Blackstone was obliged to make a total retreat from her position a week later? Is he about to make a similar announcement? While he is answering that question, will he also explain to the House whether he is describing the view of the Scottish higher education principals as irresponsible scaremongering?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : Will my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State, before he ends his speech, or my hon. Friend the Minister for Education and Industry, Scottish Office, give us the latest position on the financing of the four-year Scottish honours course, which greatly bothers Stuart Sutherland, the vice-chancellor of Edinburgh university, and many others in Scottish education?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : Madam Speaker, you gave me permission to raise under Standing Order No. 24 the dangerous situation in Iraq. This is not a kite-flying statement, but a genuine request to you to consider whether or not the House of Commons should have its say before any blood is spilt, rather than react to horror. I acknowledge the presence of the Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office, my hon. Friend the Member for Leeds, Central (Mr. Fatchett), who has responsibility for the middle east.
 Mr. Dalyell : Will chapter 5, paragraph 6 therefore be modified?
9.  Mr. Dalyell : What consultations he has had with (a) the Home Office, (b) the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and (c) the Department of Health on representation of the United Kingdom in the European Council by a Minister responsible to a Scottish Parliament. [12046]
 Mr. Boswell : Is the President satisfied that this summer's consideration of the Finance Bill took place over a total of 12 days compared with the 77 days of consideration of the last Finance Bill, under the previous Government? If she is not satisfied, will she take steps with her colleagues to ensure that such a compressed timetable never happens again?
 Mr. Yeo : I am sorry that I gave way. I understand that the family concerned has a distinguished record of conservation and far from being an absentee landlord is resident in the constituency of one of my hon. Friends. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Tim Yeo  (South Suffolk) : This has been a very significant debate that has raised many issues of enormous importance to the rural community. However, it has also been a desperately sad debate as it has exposed with brutal clarity the truth about Labour's attitude to the countryside. That attitude is founded on ignorance, riddled with prejudice, expressed without sympathy and is bordering on outright hostility. Labour's total lack of understanding of the needs and aspirations of the men, women and children who live in the countryside is nothing less than frightening. "The green belt is up for grabs". 208
 Mr. Tom Brake  (Carshalton and Wallington) : Does my hon. Friend agree that it was unfortunate that Ministers said that rural land was up for grabs? Does he agree that the matter of 4.4 million homes needs to be
 200
 Mrs. Taylor : The majority of people in the House are satisfied with the scrutiny of the Finance Bill, and it certainly has not been discussed by the Modernisation Committee.
 Mrs. Taylor : I thank my hon. Friend for his comments about the Order Paper. The changes that we have introduced have been widely welcomed throughout the House. On his main point about the importance of scrutiny of legislation, I agree that we have had insufficient scrutiny on many occasions in the past. I hope that, when we as a Government stick by our commitment to publish seven Bills in draft this year, some Committees will be able to look at those Bills in draft and enhance the quality of the legislation that follows.
 Mrs. Taylor : The recommendations made by the Modernisation Committee were made after discussion of papers submitted by many people in the House—for the most part, people with considerable experience on the Back Benches. I think that the recommendations that we have made do reflect the desire of Back Benchers for change in the way that we propose.
 Mrs. Taylor : Such a question would be more appropriately put to the House of Commons Commission than to myself, but I shall ensure that the hon. Gentleman's points are raised.
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : Following its report on the legislative process and the Order Paper in July, the Committee will consider further voting procedures, the parliamentary calendar, the conduct of debate and the scrutiny of European documents.
 Mrs. Taylor : I am glad that the hon. Gentleman welcomes the new and easier-to-read daily agenda. I reject his basic presumption that we have not introduced useful changes. Hon. Members worked extremely hard between the election and the summer recess to pass a record number of pieces of legislation. I think that we are finding ways for hon. Members to make extremely important and useful contributions both to debates and in Select Committees.
 Mrs. Taylor : I understand the hon. Gentleman's point, and I would not close my mind to considering alternative ways of making people accountable. However, I emphasise again that the Select Committee in question could examine that as a topic and could make recommendations if it considered that appropriate.
 Mrs. Taylor : My hon. Friend is aware that the Committee has two Sub-Committees, because it was formed by the merger of two previous Select Committees. I do not deny what he says about the importance of the regions, and there will be legislation on the topic later in this Session. However, I remind him—he is a member of the Transport Sub-Committee—that either of the Sub-Committees or the Committee itself could have an inquiry into any aspect of regional development that was relevant to the policy of that Department, so the Committee is not excluded from the kind of investigation that he thinks may be necessary.
 Mrs. Taylor : My hon. Friend is not showing his characteristic generosity to Opposition Members. He should understand that they have had other things on their minds in recent weeks.
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : I have no plans to do so at present, but the Modernisation Committee will consider the matter with other suggestions when it examines the parliamentary calendar. My hon. Friend has written to the Committee about the proposal and we shall look at it.
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : The Select Committee has already been given the power to appoint two Sub-Committees. It is up to the Committee to decide how to choose inquiries within its terms of reference.
 Mrs. Taylor : My hon. Friend makes a legitimate point, although I am not sure that starting earlier on Thursday would guarantee an earlier finish. That point can be examined by the Modernisation Committee, as can my hon. Friend's very interesting idea that the House could sit in Committee on Tuesday and Thursday mornings. Those ideas are worth further investigation.
 Mrs. Taylor : When a 10-minute limit is imposed, it applies to all Members, be they Privy Councillors or the newest Back Benchers. I think there is concern that, on occasion, certain Members tend to speak for excessively long periods when others want to make contributions. The Modernisation Committee will consider the whole subject of the conduct of debate, and it will be for the Committee
 110
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : The Standing Order gives the Chair wide discretion to impose the 10-minute limit when the number wishing to speak justifies it. I am not convinced that there is a need to limit all contributions in that way.
 Mrs. Taylor : I completely agree with the hon. Gentleman. Interventions and spontaneity are important because they are the only thing that ever makes anyone change their mind. If that happens rarely, so be it, but at least an opportunity exists. I believe that the point that my hon. Friend the Member for West Lancashire (Mr. Pickthall) made about the possibility of injury time should be considered carefully, although we do not want to do anything that would allow abuses of the overall purpose of a 10-minute limit. The Committee can usefully look into that.
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : The Committee reported on 23 July, and a debate on its conclusions is to be held in the near future.
 Mrs. Winterton : Bearing in mind the Government's pledge to be tough on crime and the recent statement by the right hon. Member for Hamilton, South (Mr. Robertson) that sentences should mean what they say, will the Secretary of State confirm whether it is the Government's policy to follow their predecessors' policy
 102
5. Mrs. Ann Winterton : What estimate he has made of the number of extra prison places he expects to create in the next five years. [12042]
 Miss Anne McIntosh  (Vale of York) : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mrs. Dunwoody : It is precisely because the previous Government played ducks and drakes with our rights in the House that it is very important that these changes should be only to the advantage of the taxpayer and the voter. Will my right hon. Friend therefore give a simple
 109
 Mrs. Ewing : Does the Secretary of State agree that one of the most critical industries dealt with by the Council of Ministers is the fisheries industry, which is important to the whole of the Scottish economy as well as to coastal communities?
 Ms Margaret Hodge  (Barking) : The right hon. Gentleman has been on his feet for more than 15 minutes, and we have no idea what policy he would follow if he were Secretary of State for Education and Employment. Does he support the introduction of tuition fees, and does he believe that they should be means-tested?
 Ms Margaret Hodge  (Barking) : Is the hon. Gentleman contradicting what he said in 1995 in a Liberal
 139 Liberal Democrat News "Leaving aside the extra resources that we want to spend on other areas of education… such an approach"—
 Ms Margaret Hodge  (Barking) : The speech that we have just heard from the hon. Member for Guildford (Mr. St. Aubyn) shows the depths to which the Conservative party has sunk since the election. The Conservative Government set up the Dearing inquiry because they had created a funding crisis in higher education. Conservative Members now want to wash their hands and walk away. It seems that they are even more shameless in opposition than they were in government, or, as with Europe, that they have abandoned pragmatic good sense for the wilder extremes of knee-jerk opposition.
 Ms Hodge : No, I will not, because of the shortage of time. 149 150
 Ms Hodge : I have been told to ask the hon. Gentleman: is he not a hypocrite?
 Mrs. Ray Michie : While the Minister is conducting that exercise, will he bear it in mind that Argyll and Bute NHS trust delivers a unique and localised service to remote rural and island areas? Does he recall that, under the last Government, efforts were made to manage the service from the central belt but, when jobs were moved from Lochgilphead to Paisley, it did not work and they were all moved back? I hope that he can give an assurance that that sort of nonsense will never happen again.
 Mrs. Ray Michie  (Argyll and Bute) : Does my hon. Friend welcome the Minister's assurance that no decision has been made yet about HLCAs? I represent an area that is not only less favoured but severely disadvantaged and if our hill farmers do not receive positive help in the near future, many will go out of business.
2. Mrs. McKenna : What arrangements are in place to ensure high-quality training for young people in the welfare-to-work scheme. [12039]
 Mrs. McKenna : I welcome my hon. Friend's comments. I cannot emphasise enough the importance of quality training for young people in the welfare-to-work programme. It is vital that young people feel comfortable with what is on offer and that they can acquire skills for the future. Does my hon. Friend agree that it is important to discuss with employers the best approach? I had a meeting with the major employers in my constituency, who were positive about the proposals. They wanted to be involved and supported what was on offer. They were happy that they were being consulted and that their expertise was being used to address any problems. Does my hon. Friend agree that it is important to carry out proper pilots and to involve all the young people and the employers, including local authorities, which are major employers in Scotland?
 Mrs. Theresa May  (Maidenhead) : I am grateful for the opportunity to speak in this important debate. The Dearing report made a number of recommendations that cover various issues. Two key issues were the need to widen participation in and access to higher education, and funding in higher education. The Dearing report was not some fly-by-night, hastily put together report. It was the result of many months of careful research and analysis of the issues.
 155
 Mrs. May : The issue we are debating this evening is whether the people who are in government today are cherry-picking from the Dearing report. "Labour has no plans to introduce tuition fees for higher education"— 156 "The CVCP considers it essential that contributions from students towards tuition are ploughed back into universities and lead to a direct improvement in funding for teaching."
 Angela Eagle : No.
 Angela Eagle : No. Is that clear enough?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Angela Eagle) : It is always a pleasure to listen to the rants of the right hon. Member for Fylde (Mr. Jack), and we had a vintage performance tonight. I shall get round to answering some of his questions in due course. Initially, I shall deal with the rather virtual reality view of politics that Conservative Members seem to be propounding. It is a myth, and it is perpetuated with increasing desperation by the Conservative party, that Labour does not represent the interests of the countryside. The right hon. Member for Skipton and Ripon (Mr. Curry) was at it in  Farmers Weekly 211 [Interruption.]
 Angela Eagle : No, I shall not give way. The right hon. Gentleman has had his chance to make his views known. It is interesting that he now talks about a 75 per cent. brown-field site target when his Government were considering 50 per cent. and seeing whether they could
 212
 Angela Eagle : That is not what he said. I will read exactly what he said. I have a transcript. He was asked by an interviewer:
 "So the green belt is up for grabs then?" "The green belt is up for grabs as much as it ever was."
 Angela Eagle : No.
 Angela Eagle : The right hon. Gentleman's speech was particularly disingenuous in the light of his previous responsibilities in government. In misrepresenting our policy on green-belt and brown-field sites, the right hon. Gentleman is simply scaremongering.
 Angela Eagle : No, I will not give way.
 Angela Eagle : In my usual polite way, Mr. Deputy Speaker—
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Ms Glenda Jackson) : Before I respond to the hon. Member for Eastbourne (Mr. Waterson), may I offer my apologies to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, to the whole House and particularly to my hon. Friend the Member for Don Valley (Caroline Flint) for my failure to be present in the House for last night's Adjournment debate. I can offer neither excuse nor reason, simply my most humble apologies.
 225 226
 Ms Jackson : We have given a clear commitment that the White Paper, which will be fundamental to our policy for integrated transport, will be published early next year. 227 228
 Dr. Jones : That is absolutely right. When I was a young girl living on a council estate, very few of my
 158
 Dr. Jones : I would not want to say that the parents who do not contribute to their children's education would necessarily make that distinction. I suspect that those who do not contribute are people from lower middle-class backgrounds who find it a struggle to supply that assistance, or people from working-class backgrounds who do not value education—we must do something about that—but the majority of parents give what they can afford.
 159
 Helen Jones  (Warrington, North) : I am pleased that the Opposition have given us the opportunity to debate such a vital issue. It is sad that more Opposition Members could not be with us. 141
 Ms Sally Keeble  (Northampton, North) : I am grateful for the chance to speak in this debate, which is of great importance to my constituency. I wish to draw in particular from the circumstances of students in Northampton. My constituency contains both a higher education and a further education college. To both, issues of access and opportunity in education are especially dear. 154
 Rev. Martin Smyth  (Belfast, South) : Does the hon. Lady agree, on the issue of class, that the attraction of higher education for young people who saw their own pals going out and earning money, while they were piling up debt, would be minimal? We must be realistic about that.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Lady must make clear her intentions.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The right hon. Gentleman knows that the hon. Lady is not giving way. Let the debate be completed in the good order in which it has been conducted so far.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order.
 Sir Geoffrey Johnson Smith  (Wealden) : I should add that those in the industrial estates to the north of Eastbourne have told me in strong terms that they regard it as a bad decision to postpone these improvements, seemingly indefinitely.
 Sir Patrick Cormack : I am glad that the right hon. Lady made her last point. Does she agree that spontaneity is terribly important in debate and that, if Members cannot intervene, the lifeblood of debate drains away? Surely we do not want a series of Members delivering pre-prepared speeches, never giving way and not replying spontaneously to other speeches?
 Sir Robert Smith  (West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine) : The hon. Gentleman seems to have missed the past 20 years—the cuts in the 1980s when the Conservative Government declared that there were too many students in universities, and the expansion that was declared to be market driven, only for the Government to discover that students were not studying what they wanted them to study; so they introduced quotas, then targets, then capping, then expansion again. They destroyed the whole structure of our higher education. We would have been in a far better state if they had not been so manic in their change of policies every year.
 Sir Robert Smith : On the expansion of prison places, does the Secretary of State yet have an estimate of the date by which he will have tackled the problem of overcrowding in Scottish prisons?

 Sir Sydney Chapman : Given that the Government are committed, as a result of the Labour party manifesto, to making Parliament more relevant and more effective—that was the reason for establishing the Modernisation Committee—does the right hon. Lady not think, on reflection, that the Government's actions since 1 May have had the opposite effect, and indeed diminished Parliament? She must recall that her Government introduced a guillotine before the Second Reading debate on a Bill, changed the format of Prime Minister's Question Time without any consultation with the House, and spin-doctored important statements to the media ahead, and instead, of giving them in the Chamber. On reflection, does the right hon. Lady not think that those issues are more important than the very welcome introduction of a new and easier-to-read daily agenda?
32.  Sir Sydney Chapman : To ask the President of the Council what plans she has to implement the recommendations contained in the first report of the Select Committee on Modernisation of the House of Commons (HC190, Session 1997–98). [12027]
 Mr. Alan Williams : I thank my hon. Friend for his comments about the additional money for higher education in Wales. Is it new money, or is it money from elsewhere in the education budget? If it is from elsewhere in the budget, where is it coming from?
 Mr. Gareth Thomas : Is my hon. Friend aware that many farmers in Wales deplore the Opposition's negative attitude to Europe? Many farmers know that agricultural policy is inextricably linked with European policy. Does he agree that it is high time that the Opposition took a more realistic approach to Europe?
 Several hon. Members rose
 Mr. Edward Gamier  (Harborough) : In another place, the entire proceedings of the Bill took 52 minutes—Second Reading lasted 40 minutes, Committee stage took seven minutes, and Third Reading five minutes. During the brief Second Reading debate, Lord Mishcon said:
 "short Bills, however meritorious, deserve short speeches."—[ Official Report, House of Lords, "a sad fact that in the magistrates' courts nowadays it often takes almost as long to bring a guilty plea to court as it does to bring a not guilty plea to court."—[ Official Report, House of Lords, 340 786 Hansard
 Mr. Vernon Cooker  (Gedling) : The Minister's speech was most welcome and he is to be congratulated on it. He has offered hope to many of the miners who live in and around my constituency and in Nottinghamshire, and to miners' families and communities throughout the country. It is all very well for the hon. Member for Sevenoaks (Mr. Fallon) to cast aspersions, but the Minister has had to deal in the past few months with the appalling situation that he inherited. In meetings with miners and others in the industry, the Minister has tried to deal with the practical problems that he inherited. 362
 Dr. Tonge : Thank you very much, Madam Speaker; I misunderstood the purpose of the statement.
 Dr. Jenny Tonge  (Richmond Park) : Like the rest of the House, I welcome the White Paper, which is being produced after 20 years. I welcome also the emphasis that the White Paper—after much consultation, on which I congratulate the Government—places on my chief concerns: primary education, health and welfare of women, and women's access to health and family planning services. I suspect, however, that the White Paper is strong on words and weak on action. I am very worried by the number of times that the word "encouraged" is used and by how little commitment there is to establishing processes to put proposals into practice.
 Mr. Ancram : Does the Secretary of State recall that, on the morning after the vote, the Prime Minister scrubbed his celebration visit to Cardiff—which, incidentally, had voted no—and in Downing street told journalists that he would now listen to the people of Wales? Does the Secretary of State accept that, whatever else they might do, the votes revealed the real and legitimate fears of people in certain parts of Wales that a Welsh Assembly would permanently ride roughshod over their interests? What listening has been done since 18 September, and what fundamental changes are proposed to the plans—or was it just one more bit of prime ministerial hollow rhetoric that he will ignore by riding roughshod over the voice of the people of Wales?
 Mr. Ancram : Here it comes.
Q5. [12359]  Miss Widdecombe : In view of the tremendous improvement in inward investment that the previous Government secured for this country through maintaining a flexible labour market—I welcome the cheer on the Labour Benches for it—will the Prime Minister now please answer a question that he has had a great many chances to answer? This is a simple question and he has had lots of time to go through his notes. Given that much of that flexibility will be removed under the social chapter, to which he has signed up, how will he guarantee to small businesses that they will not suffer from those inflexibilities?
 Madam Speaker : Order. I must call the hon. Lady to order. She is not required now to make all the comments that she is making. Back Benchers, too, are not required now to make comments. The exchange between Front Benchers took 30 minutes. As many hon. Members would like to ask a question, I will have to have brisk questions to the Minister if they are to be called. I know that the
 323
 Madam Speaker : Order. The House does not have to listen, but hon. Members must be heard. Let us hear what the Prime Minister has to say.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Mr. Leslie, this is not a football match.
 Madam Speaker : Order. We must now move on.
 Madam Speaker : The hon. Gentleman knows that I can deal only with procedural matters, not with matters of Government policy. I cannot bring a Minister to the Dispatch Box to give the reasons that the hon. Gentleman requires, but he is wise enough to know that there are other methods—Adjournment debates, parliamentary questions, and so on—by which to raise the matter and to try to elicit some further information.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Let me remind hon. Members that they can ask only questions for which the Government are responsible. The Government have no responsibility for what the Opposition do.
 Madam Speaker : I did not count the number of questions, but I think that the hon. Gentleman is referring to the Opposition Front-Bench spokesman. I have noticed in recent times that questions on a statement, not only from Opposition Front-Bench Members but from Back Benchers, are very long indeed. I sit here and listen to hon. Members making great comments about statements without coming to any point of view or asking a question. The House seems to be moving away from asking questions; hon. Members are too concerned with commenting on the statement that has already been made.
 Mr. Alan Hurst  (Braintree) : Before there is any doubt, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I refer you and right hon. and hon. Members to my entry in the register of interests as a partner in the solicitor's firm of Law, Hurst and Taylor. 341
 The Minister of State, Department of Health (Mr. Alan Milburn) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne, Central (Mr. Cousins) on securing the debate. He has raised some extremely important issues about freedom of speech within the national health service in the context of particular and serious concerns in the area that he represents. I shall address these issues immediately and state unequivocally the Government's support for freedom of speech within the NHS. I hope that the House will understand that I cannot discuss confidential clinical decisions relating to individual patients or detailed individual decisions affecting the employment of NHS staff. It would not be right or proper for me to do so. 374 375 376
 Sir Alastair Goodlad  (Eddisbury) : I thank the Secretary of State for making her statement to the House, and for giving us good prior notice of it. I assure her, as I did earlier in the year, that international development is an issue in which both sides of the House take the deepest possible interest. Does she share my belief that an informed debate on this subject before too very long would be helpful, and that the Select Committee on International Development should examine her document thoroughly before we have a full debate? 318 319
 Mr. Rogers : Does the Secretary of State agree that it would be far better if Opposition Members ceased to refight the battles of this summer, accepted that the people of Wales have asked for a Welsh Assembly and contributed constructively to the establishment of a democratic institution which we all want to work? Does he agree that there is no point in fighting old battles and that we have to look forward?
 Mr. Dismore : I specialised as a personal injury lawyer for 19 years. There have been conditional fees for the past two years and the system has been working extremely well, but I accept my hon. Friend's argument that they may not be suitable for every type of case. He may not be aware, however, that John Monks of the TUC, while speaking to representatives of the insurance industry on 3 November, made an interesting proposal that will be advanced to the Lord Chancellor, and that is to extend the trade union legal aid scheme to all people who are injured at work. Trade union schemes are a success story and they are not dependent on legal aid. Perhaps my hon. Friend will care to reflect on these points.
 Mr. Andrew Dismore  (Hendon) : Will my hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Lansley : My hon. Friend rightly mentions concerns about the extent of the levy and its impact on electricity consumers. Is he aware of Eastern Electricity's proposal to invite electricity consumers voluntarily to pay a tariff to go towards the support of renewable technologies? Is not that a preferable way in which to move?
 Mr. Andrew Lansley  (South Cambridgeshire) : The Minister referred to clean-coal technology. Is it his intention to extend the levy to embrace research and development into that technology? He referred to supporting the technology, but he did not say how that would happen.
 Mr. Andrew Mackinlay  (Thurrock) : I beg to move,
 That leave be given to bring in a Bill to end the differential treatment of war widows and war disablement pensioners by local authorities; and for connected purposes. Saga Magazine "It is a cop-out on the Government's part. It should legislate to say that war pensions are either counted or ignored, and not give councils the discretion. Obviously, we would like war pensions to be ignored." 335 "The Labour party recognises the unfairness of the current situation, although you will understand that many decisions about what improvements might be made to the current social security system may have to wait until we are in government." 336
 Mr. Andrew Rowe  (Faversham and Mid-Kent) : I wish to make two small points. First, does the right hon. Lady agree that in all the talk about Government-to-Government conversation, development is increasingly seen as responding to the needs expressed by the poor themselves? That is fundamental.
 Mr. Andrew Stunell  (Hazel Grove) : The Liberal Democrats have no objection to the Bill, so we will not divide the House either. I thank the Minister for his positive and helpful presentation of the case, but I want to register some concerns and I hope that he will feel able to respond when winding up the debate. Utility Week, 361
 Mr. Stunell : Will the Minister outline the criteria that he will use? When it comes to putting a levy on renewables, the crucial point is whether they can stand it and whether it affects their competitiveness and ability to expand.
Q9. [12364]  Mr. Mitchell : I am sure that my right hon. Friend will join me in welcoming today's White Paper on
 314
 Mr. Mitchell : I would rather not give way because I have a difficult argument to advance and with the need for speed my argument must be somewhat compressed. 289
 Mr. Mitchell : Is it true?
 Mr. Mitchell : I encourage the extension of the trade union legal aid scheme: it is obviously important. However, neither that scheme nor conditional fees can replace the substantial sums in legal aid that will be taken away. People who do not belong to a trade union and who are not able to get access to conditional fees will be particularly vulnerable. 290
 Mr. Austin Mitchell  (Great Grimsby) : I am grateful to have the opportunity to discuss the Government's legal aid proposals because I regard legal aid as embodying an important principle that we should support and empower. Individuals, especially those who do not have the financial means to employ legal services themselves, sometimes find themselves against big organisations, big corporations and power. Legal aid is an important means of addressing imbalances in our society. The people need the law, and now more than ever in view of the complexity and size of the powerful business organisations that they often have to oppose. They need its support and it should be available to them. If we are to have an equal legal system in which individuals have the ability to take on big power they must be backed in some way by public provision. 288
 Mr. Barry Jones : Does my right hon. Friend expect the Assembly to meet in north Wales—for example, in the county of Flintshire? Does he expect the Assembly to have plans to improve road and rail communications between the north and the south, bearing in mind that many people in the north think of Cardiff as a faraway place?
 Mr. Barry Sheerman  (Huddersfield) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Stafford (Mr. Kidney) on introducing this debate. I also congratulate the Minister for Transport in London on her new post. I have not had a chance to do so since she took over, and I hope that we can all work carefully and well together on the important issue of road safety. 239 240
 Mr. Sheerman : I welcome the kill your speed initiative, but, at the same time, there is a great accent on speed in the advertising, especially on television, of new cars. We must do everything that we can, including approaching the Advertising Standards Authority, to reduce the impact of such advertising. We constantly read or hear of cars accelerating from standstill to 100 mph in a few seconds and being great performers at 120 mph. It is essential that we tackle the advertisers.
 Mr. Cash : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. The Minister is referring to the Bill and its long title. As it is a Government Bill, it would have been perfectly possible for the Government to have adjusted the long title in the light of the difficulties experienced in the House of Lords. I do not know whether there would have been merit in doing so, but I find the hon. Gentleman's argument difficult to follow.
 Mr. William Cash  (Stone) : I am much encouraged by some of the Minister's remarks, but are the Government prepared to amend and investigate the treaty that regulates imported electricity? That serious question goes back to a previous Labour Government. I do not want to make just a party political point, but that question requires some analysis.
 Mr. Bill O'Brien  (Normanton) : We appreciate the way in which my hon. Friend is collecting knowledge on the coal mining industry and we welcome some of his suggestions to address some of the imbalances in it. May I take up one of the six examples that he raised—generating electricity from gas? We are given to understand that, apart from perhaps the Drax power station, the majority of base load electricity is generated from gas even though in many instances its unit cost is higher than electricity generated from coal. Will he consider that customers of electricity-generating industries are not receiving the best possible value? In addition to making representations on that issue, will he check that matter and whether customers are getting the best value from the way in which the generating industry operates?
 Mr. Bill O'Brien : I am sure that my hon. Friend will include the Grimethorpe scheme, which made extensive research into clean-coal technology. If the Conservative Government had not withdrawn funding, we would have had clean-coal technology by now. What is my hon. Friend's view on that?
 Mr. Bill O'Brien  (Normanton) : I support the comments of the hon. Member for Runnymede and Weybridge (Mr. Hammond) about some of the issues that he raised. We should use the fossil fuel levy to introduce a comprehensive energy policy, which I hope would include clean-coal technology. It is important that we have a comprehensive energy policy that includes coal, gas, nuclear power and the renewables that have been referred to in the debate. 359
 Mr. Bowen Wells  (Hertford and Stortford) : That is because GDP went down under Labour.
 Mr. Wells : The Select Committee on International Development looks forward to welcoming the right hon. Lady next Thursday for a long discussion on such matters. As she knows, I object strongly to the ATP and have
 326
 Mr. Charles Clarke : Following my right hon. Friend's meeting on sustainable development this morning, will he take this opportunity to reinforce the Government's commitment to a fully sustainable, integrated transport strategy? Is he aware that many parts of the country, including East Anglia, have suffered from severe
 311
 Mr. Chris Mullin  (Sunderland, South) : I welcome my right hon. Friend's statement, especially her reference to the link between human rights and aid and debt relief. An early test of our commitment to that link will be our attitude towards Jamaica, Belize, Trinidad and the other
 331
 Mr. Chris Pond (Gravesham) : I am grateful for the opportunity to raise a matter that will be of concern to the House and especially to those hon. Members whose constituencies, like mine, border the Thames. Lloyd's List "In this case no lives were lost, and the Thames Barrier has demonstrated that it is a good deal stronger than the forepart of a ship. The accident did not coincide with the 100 year North Sea storm surge and a spring tide working against flooding in the Thames Valley. London has survived again. It could have been a good deal worse."
 Mr. Pond : I have no way of knowing whether the vessel that my hon. Friend mentioned had a pilot on board when that incident occurred. Nor do we have any way of knowing whether the other incidents I mentioned would have occurred had the vessels had pilots on board. We can be certain of one thing, however: the likelihood of such an incident would not have been greater with a pilot than without.
 Mr. Pond : I share that concern. I have had a meeting with the PLA at its headquarters in Gravesend in my constituency, but I am concerned about the extent of the consultation process. I am especially concerned about the importance that the PLA has placed on the views of its pilots and of users of the Thames. Although the PLA has had meetings with pilots, there is no evidence that real consultation has taken place, and that should be of concern to the House. "would affect the safety and environment of the Thames Estuary and River". 273 "Pilots do not consider 'modest changes' to be a realistic description of the proposals for changing the limits above Sea Reach No. I"— "It should be considered that raising the limit by 60 per cent. from 50 to 80 metres results in the deadweight of ships affected increasing … from approximately 700 tonnes to 2,500 tonnes, perhaps more". "The non-piloted ships being unaware of the constraints of the larger vessels could either hog the deep water, force the tanker to take evasive action, resulting in grounding or a collision, or just generally impede the safe passage … Having spoken to many large ship masters recently about this review, they express alarm and concern with regards to the considerably increased risks." 274 "it is not uncommon to find excessive fatigue in evidence amongst ships crews". 275 "the safety performance of the Port of London has been and continues to be excellent." "although the authority has the power in law to implement any changes in its directions, it would be very unlikely to go ahead if the Secretary of State strongly opposed them".
 Mr. Chris Ruane  (Vale of Clwyd) : Does the hon. Gentleman recognise the damage that the previous Conservative Government did to the rural economy? They presided over it for 18 years, during which there was Alar in the apple industry, anthrax in the pig industry, botulism in the food processing industry, listeria in the dairy industry, salmonella in the poultry industry, E. coli in the meat industry and BSE in the beef industry. Does he believe that that strengthened or weakened the rural economy in Wales?
 Mr. Christopher Chope  (Christchurch) : I join other hon. Members in congratulating the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Kidney) on introducing the debate. He made some pertinent points. If I were to make any adverse comment about his speech, it would be that he stopped short of developing his argument about the growing concern about those who drive while under the influence of drugs. There must be scope for making a breakthrough in that area similar to that made previously in relation to those who drive under the influence of alcohol. I hope that the Government will respond to the increasing pleas from all quarters for action on that front.
 Mr. Chope : I take the hon. Gentleman's point, but we must increase public awareness of the dangers associated with driving while under the influence of drugs. Many people do not seem to be too worried about it. 243
 Mr. Gill : During her deliberations on these very difficult questions, will the Minister bear in mind the fact that Shrewsbury was effectively cut off from the capital of the country with the withdrawal of the inter-city service from Shrewsbury to Euston some years ago? One of the greatest boons to the encouragement of public transport in our county would be the restoration of the inter-city route from Euston to Shrewsbury. Many Salopians travel to Crewe, Birmingham International and other stations to catch their trains to London. That, I believe, would not happen if there were an adequate inter-city service from the county town.
 Mr. Christopher Gill  (Ludlow) : As the House may know, my hon. Friend the Member for North Shropshire (Mr. Paterson) was born and bred in the county of Shropshire and knows the county and its problems well. Is it his impression that over the past few years, since the completion of the Shrewsbury bypass, and the making of the road north of Wrexham into a dual carriageway, the weight of traffic on that section of the A5 through Shropshire has increased exponentially? Does he recognise that some of the so-called improvements that have been carried out on that road have created accident
 281
 Mr. Gill : I am most grateful to the Minister for giving way. On that point, does she recognise that there is great resentment in Shropshire where we have very inadequate roads? When we cross the border, we generally find that Welsh roads are in much better condition than those in Shropshire. Much more money has apparently been spent on roads in Wales even though the density of traffic and road usage is comparably less than in Shropshire. That causes an enormous amount of resentment, quite apart from the practical problems so ably outlined by my hon. Friend.
 Mr. Soley : We recognise the importance of the family to social structure and to individual welfare, and I know that my right hon. Friend is aware of the concern about the lack of integrated policies on the family under the previous Government. Can he tell us what this Government have done to bring about an integrated policy towards the family, bearing in mind the importance of that issue for Britain?
 Mr. Dafis : I like what the Minister is saying. I, too, would like to emphasise that adding value to Welsh food and the production of high-quality products are important issues of economic development. That must be borne in mind when deciding the spending priorities of the new development agency. Together with inward investment, such issues will be key, important considerations in the creation of a vibrant economy in rural areas and in Wales generally.
 Mr. Cynog Dafis  (Ceredigion) : In seeking the debate, my colleagues and I were fulfilling an undertaking that we made during the summer recess when, of course, we were all on holiday, as the Minister knows. At meetings with farmers, we promised them that we would raise in Parliament, as soon as it reconvened, the grievous crisis that is besetting the farming community in Wales and, by extension, the grievous crisis that is affecting the entire rural community. That was our undertaking and I am glad to be able to fulfil it. 250
 Mr. Dafis : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend the Member for Caernarfon (Mr. Wigley) for making that point. Income levels this year are certainly significantly lower than £10,000. On top of the problems that I have already described, there has been a sharp reduction—about 20 per cent.—in the price of milk, partly due to the strong pound. Worst of all, that reduction has coincided with Milk Marque's new collection charge system. We understand why Milk Marque introduced it, although its detail is questionable. 251 252
 Mr. Dafis : Absolutely. I dare say that there are conflicts of interest about that even within Wales at times; it is never a simple issue. We need the kind of CAP reform that will deliver good, sustainable, healthy agriculture everywhere. Specific hill-farming issues need to be considered, however, and CAP reform is relevant to those issue.
 Mr. Dafis : The only thing with which I might disagree is the adjective "austere". I never noticed much austerity at Aberystwyth, at least among the students.
 Mr. Dafis : Absolutely—and lifting the export ban is crucial to that.
 Mr. Dafis : Does the Minister agree that education will be one of the main priorities—if not the main priority—for the Welsh Assembly? Is there not an opportunity to design an education system, educational policies and patterns of provision in Wales that are distinctive and that correspond to Welsh needs? I think in particular of curricula as well as organisation. Will the hon. Gentleman confirm that the Welsh Assembly will be seriously empowered in influencing the pattern of education provision in Wales from 1999 onwards?
 Mr. Wigley : I congratulate the Secretary of State on the historic result of the referendum and the establishment of a Welsh national assembly. Does he agree that one of the main reasons why people voted yes was the Assembly's potential for developing the economy of Wales, not least in the context of reorganisation of the Welsh Development Agency and other agencies dealing with industry?
 Mr. Dafydd Wigley  (Caernarfon) : Does my hon. Friend accept that in 1995–96, as many as 40 per cent. of Welsh cattle and sheep farmers in less-favoured areas—where 80 per cent. of Welsh farmland is located—had incomes of less than £10,000? That was with the higher prices to which he referred, so the prospects for this year are devastating.
 Mr. Dale Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : May I positively welcome my right hon. Friend's White Paper? As she will know, over the years, the British Government have sponsored many projects which are not good. They have not been properly evaluated by outside contractors or, indeed, by departmental people when they have been required to do so. Will she re-examine project evaluation arrangements within her Department?
 Mr. Dale Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Will you draw attention to the need for Members to be a little briefer in questioning Ministers during statements and perhaps even private notice questions? What we saw today was almost an abuse of the House. My hon. Friend the Member for Linlithgow (Mr. Dalyell) tells me that 48 questions were asked.
 Mr. Hanson : Does my hon. Friend agree that the release of capital receipts by the Government will provide a great boost to the building of local authority homes, if local authorities wish to build? Will he welcome that release of capital receipts for authorities such as Flintshire, which is ploughing money into new house building and refurbishments this year?
 Mr. Kidney : In fairness to me, I think that I am correct in saying that the Department is funding a three-year study into the effects of the consumption of illegal drugs on road deaths. That study has been under way for only one year. What I said about the consumption of drugs was based on the first year's figures. As my hon. Friend the
 242
 Mr. David Kidney  (Stafford) : It is 10 years since the committee chaired by Dr. Peter North prepared its report on our road traffic laws. Since then, most of the changes in the laws affecting road traffic have been based on its recommendations. Ten years on, I believe that it is time to take a fresh look at road safety, for two reasons. 230 231 232
 Mr. David Lock  (Wyre Forest) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend the Member for Great Grimsby (Mr. Mitchell) for allowing me to speak in the debate. I want to bring a number of points to the Minister's attention, and to seek his assurance that they will be considered when his Department discusses publicly funded litigation. 291
 Sir David Madel  (South-West Bedfordshire) : Is the right hon. Lady aware that the former Prime Minister of Israel, Shimon Peres, is constantly warning that a poor middle east is a very dangerous middle east? With that statement in mind, when the Government assume the presidency of the European Union, will they step up efforts with our partners to get clean proper water supplies to Gaza and the west bank? Without the lifting of living standards from the bare minimum in those two areas, the agreements between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organisation simply will not stick.
5.  Mr. Prior : What representations he has received concerning the building of extra houses in Wales. [12379]
 Mr. Prior : Does the Minister agree with the Minister for the Regions, Regeneration and Planning that the green belt is up for grabs?
 Mr. Trimble : Last Thursday it was four, by Monday it was 12, and by yesterday 20 workers were suspended without pay by Coats Viyella for wearing poppies. One of the 20 workers suspended is a veteran of the Falklands war. Does the Prime Minister agree that, when the House enacted the fair employment legislation it never intended it be used to produce this sort of result? Will he assure the House that the review of that legislation will ensure that this sort of thing never happens again and that British workers will never again be penalised for wearing poppies at work?
 Mr. Denis MacShane  (Rotherham) : I join in the chorus of welcome for the White Paper, but is my right hon. Friend aware that it will also be welcomed by many people around the world? She referred to third-world Governments, but she might care to make a distinction between what authoritarian Governments say about some of the linkages she has mentioned and what the people in their countries—the workers, the Churches and the organisations—have to say about them. 332
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the cancellation of debt that was supposed to aid third-world countries in the course of the past 18 years under the three Chancellors of the Exchequer who have already been mentioned was not all that it was cracked up to be? It is significant that, during that period, about £5 billion was written off as irrecoverable debts that benefited the four top clearing banks—Barclays, Lloyds, Midland and National Westminster, all of which now have Tory Members of Parliament or ex-Members of Parliament on the board. Will she give an assurance that, under the new regime, if any money is to be written off, it should be the debt of poor third-world countries?
 Mr. Denzil Davies : Does my right hon. Friend agree that, surprisingly, one of the main impediments to the attraction of large inward investment to south-west Wales has been the shortage of large flat and suitable sites? Will he ensure co-ordination between the WDA, the Welsh Office and local authorities so that that impediment is removed?
 Mr. Davies : The targets of which the hon. Gentleman is so scornful were set by my predecessor as Secretary of State for Wales, who is now leader of the Conservative party. I am quite happy to tell the hon. Gentleman the Government's position. It was clearly set out in the White Paper, which was endorsed in September. There will be an agreed relationship between the Department of Trade and Industry, the Welsh Office and the Scottish Office—a concordat will be established. That will be the basis on which the relationship between the DTI, the Welsh Assembly and the Scottish Parliament will operate.
 Mr. Derek Wyatt  (Sittingbourne and Sheppey) : Is my hon. Friend aware that although the PLA has requested changes to regulations on pilotage, Members of Parliament whose constituencies bank on the Thames have not been made part of the process?
 Mr. Touhig : I believe that my hon. Friend is aware of a letter from the Department for Education and
 305
 Mr. Donald Anderson : Is it not good that we have an example of yet another manifesto commitment being delivered and endorsed by the people? Is there not now a new obligation on the Conservative party to recognise that the people of Wales have endorsed the proposal and an obligation on the other place to recognise that it is not elected and should have no place in seeking fundamentally to alter what was proposed by the Government and endorsed in the election and the referendum?
 Mr. Elfyn Llwyd  (Meirionnydd Nant Conwy) : I speak as a slightly overweight rather than a fat-cat lawyer, who has had some experience in personal injury litigation. I also speak as one of the vice chairs of the all-party head injury group that meets regularly in the House. One of the valid concerns of that group is that firms of solicitors will not be able to carry the huge disbursements that are necessary to pursue medical negligence or personal injury cases. Typically, lawyers are reliant on medical reports and specialist reports, such as engineers' reports. They will also refer matters back and forth to counsel, all of which costs money.
 Mr. Llwyd : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Elfyn Llwyd  (Meirionnydd Nant Conwy) : I congratulate my hon. Friend on securing time for the debate. Is he aware of recent research carried out by Aberystwyth university, that austere body which I know was also attended by some Conservative Members? According to that research, for every 10 full-time jobs in upland agriculture there are some 25 in the supply industry. The crisis affects not just agriculture, but life in rural Wales as we know it. Does my hon. Friend agree with that?
 Mr. Gareth Thomas  (Clwyd, West) : I welcome the initiative of the hon. Member for Ceredigion (Mr. Dafis) in securing this debate on an issue of great importance to
 261 262
 Mr. Gary Streeter  (South-West Devon) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. It relates directly to my constituency and is of enormous concern to the people of Devon and Cornwall.
 The Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department (Mr. Geoffrey Hoon) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend the Member for Great Grimsby (Mr. Mitchell) for raising such an important issue—even if he did appear to be playing a new role as the lawyer's friend. 292 293
 Mr. Hoon : I shall go on to deal with that. 294
 Mr. Hoon : It is for the lawyers to consider whether they should absorb those costs up front as a cost of doing business. If we receive persuasive evidence that that is totally impossible, we may take other considerations into account; in the first place, however, I want lawyers to consider their businesses, and this is a business that they are in. 295 296
 The Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department (Mr. Geoffrey Hoon) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time. 338 339
 Mr. Hoon : With the leave of the House, I shall respond briefly to the points made. I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Braintree (Mr. Hurst) on his considerable expertise in this area. In future, I shall know where to look for advice and assistance when the Department introduces technical measures dealing with the intricate details of administration in magistrates courts. He has shown by his remarks that he has considerable expertise, and I thank him for his support. He probably answered his own questions about section 9 statements and the use of the print-out. These provisions were tested in a number of pilot projects which I can assure him showed that the rights of defendants will be preserved and that the approach of the police is thoroughly satisfactory.
 Mr. Stringer : I am sure that my right hon. Friend is aware that in 2002 the Commonwealth games will take place in Manchester. The games will bring jobs and prosperity to my constituency of Manchester, Blackley and to Manchester and the north-west generally. Has he considered to ways in which the games could be used to improve the image of our country internationally?
 Mr. Hilton Dawson  (Lancaster and Wyre) : I want to echo the views expressed by my hon. Friend the Member for Stafford (Mr. Kidney), and to concentrate on one aspect of road safety—safe routes to schools—with illustrations from my constituency. 236
 Mr. Ieuan Wyn Jones  (Ynys Môn) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Ceredigion (Mr. Dafis) on securing time for this important debate. I welcome the contributions of the hon. Members for Preseli Pembrokeshire (Ms Lawrence) and for Brecon and Radnorshire (Mr. Livsey). Many of the points of real concern to the agriculture industry have already been aired. The hon. Member for Brecon and Radnorshire referred to the crisis surrounding entrants into the industry. 258 259 260
 6. Mr. Ieuan Wyn Jones : When he last met representatives of the farming unions to discuss the beef crisis in Wales. [12380]
 Mr. Jones : I thank the Minister for that reply. I also thank him for his contribution to this morning's debate. I particularly welcome the Government's initiative on attempting to lift the beef ban, which was made more difficult by the actions of the previous Conservative Government. Does he recognise that there are immediate
 304
 Mr. Jim Cousins  (Newcastle upon Tyne, Central) : This is an extremely important subject. When I saw the statement by the Minister of State, Department of Health, my hon. Friend the Member for Darlington (Mr. Milburn) on 25 September, committing himself and the new Labour Government to protecting the freedom of speech in the national health service, I felt that an important step had been taken. My hon. Friend made it clear that the issue could not be disconnected from an overall concern for openness and accountability in the conduct of public services, or from considerations about how NHS staff carried out their work, and the circumstances and constraints of their work. "On many occasions I was told by those making the referral"— "of their reluctance to report problems because they thought that nothing could or would be done, or because of the tendency in such cases for early involvement of defence societies and their lawyers. Moreover, whereas doctors' colleagues were often willing to report concerns confidentially and informally they were extremely reluctant to go on the record. Some considered that this would amount to disloyalty; others feared giving evidence in a hearing or believed that defamation actions would be launched against them." 367 "I must instruct you that you must not under any circumstances discuss issues regarding the GMC and"— "with any patient." 368 "My own feeling is that there is not a prime facie case against Mr. Monaghan although he clearly chose to ignore accepted practice in the management of Mrs. A and Mrs. B." "I cannot find any evidence in the notes that Mrs. B had a preliminary biopsy although your letter"— "implies that she had." 369 "Accepted practice is hard to define precisely and I suspect that if the complaint was argued out in the disciplinary hearing, experts would be found who would think that Mr. Monaghan was justified in acting as he did." "He"— "does not routinely use a speculum"— "as he finds that many of his patients being lower socio economic group object." "if the complaint were argued out in the disciplinary hearing, experts would be found who would think that Mr. Monaghan was justified". 370 "I have today checked on a number of standard texts which deal with the subject and the titles of which are listed below. All clearly state that vulval cancer should be confirmed by biopsy prior to surgical treatment. Whilst the College Council have not discussed this topic, on a personal basis I would not do a radical vulvectomy and groin node dissection operation without histological confirmation of the cancer." 371 372 373
 Mr. Battle : That is the whole point. The purpose is to support and encourage renewables, which is why we are supporting the structure and have put forward the NFFO proposals. We intend simply to say that, at some time in the future, instead of coming back here to legislate, we may be able to do even more to support fledgling renewable technologies, some of which the hon. Gentleman mentioned in his speech.
 Mr. Battle : I thank all hon. Members who have joined in the debate. Although it is only a small, two-clause Bill, it concerns highly technical matters and our debate has been wide ranging. 1 do not use that term disparagingly; these are indeed complex matters. As someone told me recently, the energy questions that we face today will bring together the key questions of the 21st century. Hon. Members have tried to discuss them in all seriousness; over the short, the medium and the long term, we shall have to face these questions together. 363 364
 The Minister for Science, Energy and Industry (Mr. John Battle) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time. 344
 Mr. Battle : I thank my hon. Friend for her questions. I am aware of her representations and those of many of my hon. Friends. We are concerned, not least because the main company is—how should I put it?—negotiating contracts, I hope, with the generators to ensure that there is a market for that coal. I understand that those conversations are going on—I should have hoped that they had gone on earlier—and I hope that they can be brought to a successful conclusion to ensure a future for Britain's coal industry.
 Mr. Battle : On the European rules, the Bill is well within the guidelines, as it were, and practice. We see no problems. The lines have been cleared so that we can ensure that the levy is applied and removes any inconsistencies. It is accepted in the energy market as a whole that the distortion is there; we are removing it. The aim is not to penalise French electricity, but it is unfair that it receives an extra that sources here do not. 346
 Mr. Battle : We have seriously considered that matter. Indeed, when the Bill was in the other place Lord Ezra tried to move a related amendment, but it was ruled out of order by the Clerks and the lawyers who advise us on our proceedings. Lord Ezra's proposal did not fit into the scope of the Bill because it dealt with raising the levy, not with spending it.
 Mr. Battle : The hon. Gentleman is a little confused. The amount of the levy now and in future is entirely dependent on the cost of support for renewables that come in on a bidding round each year. It is not a tax-raising measure in the way that he suggests. That has always been the case and will remain so. He cannot make such an analogy and say, "This is a tax, tell us how much will be spent." We wait for people to bid for different projects. His Government set that up; I thought that it was heading in the direction of being helpful, and we want to continue that. He cannot have it both ways.
 Mr. Battle : It may seem that our intention is to deal with the fact that the nuclear industry does not have to pay the levy. The Bill was conceived, and the long title written out, very early on in this Parliament. It has been discussed in the other place and it is only since then that, in the light of the questions being asked in the coal
 348 Hansard 349
 Mr. Battle : The hon. Gentleman said that it is a tax-raising Bill, but it is a tax-reducing Bill. Its net effect will be to reduce the levy by 0.5 per cent.—which is not a major reduction but is heading in the right direction.
 Mr. Battle : I appreciate that hon. Members want to raise the wider issues and I will respond in that spirit within your guidance, Mr. Deputy Speaker. 347
 Mr. Battle : When the hon. Gentleman was previously a Member of Parliament representing, I think, Darlington, he was the parliamentary private secretary to the Secretary of State for Energy. Later, in 1993, he appeared on a programme called "The Power Game" on Tyne Tees Television and said:
 "With hindsight, we privatised things in the wrong order. Perhaps we ought to have privatised the coal industry first. It should be run like a business and I wish we had handed it over to the great mining companies in this country. like RTZ. It is all about going out and finding the cheapest source of power, not about employing people in mines."
 Mr. John Burnett  (Torridge and West Devon) : I must also declare an interest as a partner in a firm of solicitors. I am surprised that there are not more hon. Members present as some of them will have an interest in the Bill, especially the provisions that deal with motoring offences. 342
 Mr. John Burnett  (Torridge and West Devon) : If conditional fees are introduced, will the insurance premiums of those who currently qualify for legal aid be paid by the legal aid fund, and will the fund pay the costs of investigating a case and its merits?
Q8.  [12360] Mr. Gunnell : Does the Prime Minister agree that, when schools develop excellence in some specialism, such as technology or languages, it is important that the wider community of local schools benefits also? How will the Government's policy ensure that help goes to the many and not just the few?
 Mr. John Smith  (Vale of Glamorgan) : Will the hon. Gentleman bear in mind the fact that there are also lowland farmers in Wales, particularly in my constituency? When the Minister of Agriculture takes the needs of farming in Wales into consideration, he should take account of all farming, not just hill farming.
7.  Mr. Keith Simpson : What meetings he has had with students to discuss higher education in Wales. [12381]
 Mr. Simpson : I am sure that, in addition to many hon. Members, many students in Wales will be interested by the Minister's answer to Question 2, in which he admitted that a large portion of the money that was to be allocated to universities in Wales would come from raising tuition fees for students. Is that not absolute hypocrisy, given that, during the general election campaign, the Prime Minister said categorically that student fees in higher education would not be raised?
 Mr. Kenneth Clarke  (Rushcliffe) : Will the Secretary of State accept my congratulations to the Government on their attempts so far to maintain the lead in international forums such as the G7 and others on third-world debt relief, a lead which was first established by Lord Lawson and my right hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Mr. Major), the previous Prime Minister?
 Mr. Öpik : Will the Minister give us all an assurance that, as the WDA examines reconfiguring itself in relation to regional development agencies and so forth, all Members representing parts of Wales will be able to make an active contribution to that debate?
 Mr. Lembit Öpik  (Montgomeryshire) : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that the issue is no longer the safety of British beef—which is the safest in the world—but
 253
 Mr. Lembit Öpik  (Montgomeryshire) : I, too, thank the hon. Member for Ceredigion (Mr. Dafis) for securing this debate and enabling me to make a few brief comments about family farms and smallholdings. I shall not rehearse all the arguments again, but I wish to emphasise the great importance of protecting family farms and smallholdings, not just for the present but for the foreseeable future. 263
 Mr. Lembit Öpik  (Montgomeryshire) : Will the Minister assure the House that the strategic implications for economic development, in this case for north, mid and west Wales, will be included in such a review when assessing, for example, the A5 trunk road?
Q3. [12357]  Mr. Savidge : On law and order, does my right hon. Friend recognise the need not only to allay continuing and legitimate public fears but to discourage illegitimate vigilantism of the sort that my constituency suffered earlier this year, by introducing measures to protect the community from sex offenders who pose a continuing risk? Will the Prime Minister outline his plans to deal with that problem?
 2. Mr. Caton : If he will make a statement on the progress of legislation affecting education in Wales. [12376]
 Mr. Caton : I thank my hon. Friend for his answer. He will know of the tremendous economic significance for south-west Wales of Swansea university and Swansea institute. Is he aware of the great concern among academics and other employees in those centres of learning about the current financial position? That was reflected in a letter that all Welsh Members of Parliament received from the heads of the higher education institutions in Wales. They warn of dire consequences if the current shortfall in finance continues. I do not think that they are crying wolf—what does my hon. Friend think?
Q4. [12358]  Mr. Fallon : May we now have a straight answer to my right hon. Friend the Leader of the Opposition's question? If the Prime Minister genuinely believes that the Commission's proposals for new regulations and penalties for the information and consultation of employees should not apply to British small businesses that employ as few as 50 employees, how can he guarantee that under the social chapter the proposals will not be applied to them?
 Mr. Fallon : Let me make it clear to the Minister that I do not withdraw one of those remarks. Had we introduced private finance into the coal industry earlier, the industry would certainly be in better health than it is now. I remind the Minister what happened the last time British Coal came to a Government with a list of proposed closures. The Conservative Government did not wash their hands of the industry. On the contrary, they imposed a moratorium on pit closures, as those in the House at the time will remember. They encouraged negotiations with the generators on new coal contracts. We did not simply say, as the Minister is now saying, that we hoped that the contracts would be concluded; we encouraged the generators to reach a successful conclusion of those contracts. Indeed, that was the purpose of the moratorium that we imposed on pit closures. We also introduced private finance into the coal industry, something which I wish we had done earlier, to give pits a better chance of being saved.
 Mr. Fallon : The hon. Gentleman will recall that the levy was originally introduced at the time of electricity privatisation. Indeed, it was introduced in the statute that gave effect to the original White Paper on electricity. It was felt that it was worth continuing to support non-fossil fuel sources of energy, including the nuclear and renewables options. That was the purpose of the levy, and successive orders have slowly developed and encouraged different forms of renewable energy in particular and have ensured that they play their part in providing the electricity available to generators. That is why we are a little surprised that the Minister is taking a power—he is being fair to the House and is not, I presume, proposing to exercise it immediately—to tax the very renewables that we have encouraged through the levy. We are hoping for an explanation of that. 2 352
 Mr. Fallon : The Minister knows very well that a levy is a tax. His somewhat excitable June press release claiming that the Bill would somehow save £70 million cannot be justified. Everyone knows that the nuclear industry would have been brought within the levy's scope and that the savings that he suggested are purely hypothetical. If he believes that what he has just said is accurate, perhaps he will tell the House—given that so much hydro-electric power is produced in Scotland—what the likely price increase will be for Scottish electricity consumers because of the Bill. 351
 Mr. Michael Fallon  (Sevenoaks) : I reassure the Minister, and the nervous Government Whip, that the Opposition will not seek to divide the House on the Bill. I can only say, however, that it is an orphan of a Bill. In the other place, Lord Haskel attacked the Bill's title, saying he believed that it was inadequate. Now the Minister for Science, Energy and Industry, who is in charge of the Bill in the House, has admitted to us that the Bill is inadequate and out of time and that it does not cover half the issues that he wished it could cover. In this debate and in Committee, we shall certainly be probing those points and ways in which the Bill can be improved. 350
 Mr. Fallon : No, I do not accept that. In fact, it was the President of the Board of Trade who imposed the original moratorium on the list of pit closures presented to the House. The Times "There is widespread disillusionment–95 per cent. of miners voted for a Labour Government. I doubt if they will again."
 Mr. Fallon : I am happy to accept that challenge. I hope that the miners whom the hon. Gentleman represents are happy with the Minister's intervention and with what is allegedly being done, or not done, to save the collieries now at risk. It is getting very late in the day to save some of those collieries, and I should like the Minister to be a little more active in that respect. Indeed, if the Minister has a fossil fuel policy, let us not have it in dribs and drabs—a few words in last Wednesday's Adjournment debate and some words of comfort tucked away in his speech today. Instead, let him publish his policy and then organise a debate on it so that the hon. Member for Selby (Mr. Grogan) and other Labour Members who have a genuine and long-standing interest in the coal industry can consider what can be done to help the coalfields. I accept that those hon. Members might want to criticise our performance in government—that is fair enough—but the Labour party is in government now.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order.
 Mr. Michael Clapham  (Barnsley, West and Penistone) : The fossil fuel levy should have been called the nuclear subsidy, because it is clearly a subsidy to the
 354 "The President told us that it is 'a charge on the consumer in order to enable the nuclear industry both to clean up and to provide for cleaning up the old nuclear plants."' "The purpose of the Levy is really two-fold: to comply with the Secretary of State's 9 November 1989 statement that Nuclear Electric should be cash positive and, secondly, to help fund pre-existing liabilities." "the Levy was never attached to any particular cash flow that Nuclear Electric has to pay. It was specifically described to ensure that Nuclear Electric remained cash-positive." "Our recommendation would make it possible either to reduce the Levy or to use an average of £380 million a year during the remaining five years of the Levy for other purposes".
 Mr. Clapham : I thank my hon. Friend for that prompting. The endeavour at Grimethorpe colliery was
 355 2 2 2 2 356
 Mr. Michael Clapham  (Barnsley, West and Penistone) : The hon. Gentleman is using various arguments to request justification of the fossil fuel levy. Can he tell the House what justification was given when the levy was first introduced, in 1990? If he can, he is certainly a better man than the previous President of the Board of Trade, the right hon. Member for Henley (Mr. Heseltine).
 Mr. Clapham : The hon. Gentleman refers to colliery closures. Is he aware that in 1993, the Select Committee
 353
Q11. [12366]  Mr. Nicholas Winterton : Does the Prime Minister agree that the United Kingdom is trading in an international—not just a European—arena? Is he further aware that we are highly regarded because of our relatively low-cost economy, which is growing, and that our unemployment is coming down, unlike most countries within Europe'? Why does he seek to reverse that by signing up to European social chapter and other regulations? That may be popular in the Confederation of British Industry, but the CBI does not represent British industry. We do; and it does not want them.
Q1. Mr. Evans : If he will list his official engagements for Wednesday 5 November. [12355]
 Mr. Evans : Will the Prime Minister confirm that his decision to give away the essential British veto over European research matters now means that he will not be able to block plans by other European Union countries to increase the budget by 24 per cent., which means a £2 billion increase in that budget? Will not the British taxpayer now have to pay higher taxes because of his betrayal of the British national interest?
 Mr. Evans : No, I said that I would finish at 12.10 and I aim to do that.
 Mr. Evans : If the Government had sat back and done nothing to support the farming industry, with those problems, it would have been a complete disaster. I have already mentioned the enormous £1.4 billion support on BSE. The Government's reactions in the next three or four years will be interesting. There have been incidences of E. coli in Scotland since this Government came to power. We shall not scaremonger in the appalling way that certain Labour spokesmen did when we were in government. Some of the comments made when the BSE crisis began did not help hill farmers in Wales. I am sure that the hon. Gentleman will recall the right hon. Member for Camberwell and Peckham (Ms Harman) asking:
 "Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that public confidence on this issue is hanging by a thread?"—[ Official Report 265 "HLCAs were originally brought in to compensate farmers for the natural handicaps to farming in LFAs. Now more than ever, this policy is justified and higher rates are needed for LFA farmers to survive." 266
 Mr. Evans : We all agree that lifting the ban would boost Welsh farmers. Can the Minister give us any idea of when he believes that it will be lifted?
 Mr. Evans : How many farms in less-favoured areas does the Minister think will be able to survive two years? In the last minute, what good news can he give to farmers farming in less-favoured areas?
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : I am grateful for the opportunity to contribute to the debate. I congratulate the hon. Member for Ceredigion (Mr. Dafis) on securing it. I am delighted to be able to contribute because, as a Conservative Member for a rural English constituency, I have spoken to farmers in my constituency and in Wales many times. The Conservative party is still the second party in Wales, with 100,000 more votes than the Liberal Democrats and almost twice as many votes as Plaid Cymru at the general election.
 Mr. Evans : The £60 million would not have been in the Government's spending plans, because nobody could have predicted the huge scale of the BSE crisis. Some £1.4 billion was spent to support the agriculture industry after the rise of BSE. We are asking the Government to consider the needs of farmers in HLCA areas carefully, to ensure that they get the support that they desperately need. The Government seem to have pre-empted the review, even though, as we know, they love reviews.
 Mr. Evans : I shall give way in a moment, but I want to build up a little head of steam first. I have only 10 minutes, because I know that the Minister will want to answer many of the points that have been raised.
 264
 Mr. Evans : It is all very well for the Secretary of State to talk about WDA targets for attracting inward investment away from the A55 and M4 corridors, but an article in one of today's newspapers mentions a damaging row between himself and the President of the Board of Trade about who should have the final say on aid packages to attract inward investment. Therefore, will the Secretary of State for Wales clear up this issue: who does have the final say over inward investment issues? Is it himself or the President of the Board of Trade, or will it be the Assembly?
 Mr. Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : Will the right hon. Lady tell us something about the dog that did not bark in her statement—the question of tariff barriers and non-tariff barriers? Does she agree that one of the major contributors to improving the lot of poor people in poor countries is to remove those tariff barriers and non-tariff barriers? Can she explain why she did not mention that?
 Mr. Owen Paterson  (North Shropshire) : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing the deplorable state of the road north of Shrewsbury to be brought to the attention of Parliament. 280
 Mr. Paterson : I thank my hon. Friend for that helpful intervention: I concur entirely with his views. As I said, traffic at Moreton Hall increased by 44 per cent. from 1991 to 1996 and has grown by 5.9 per cent. this year. My hon. Friend is absolutely correct when he says that some minor improvements have made the situation worse. Queen's Head junction was built in 1986 and is a relatively new road, but it is the second most dangerous junction after Thomas Telford's road at Shottaton. Shropshire Star 282 "Recently my son was involved in a major accident on this road and is lucky to have escaped with his life. I know that you are leading a cross party campaign for the A5 to be upgraded to a dual carriageway. This, in my opinion, cannot be done any too soon. Be assured you have the fullest possible backing from your constituents of whatever political persuasion for anything that can be done to improve the situation. This is a matter of pressing importance and needs instant action on the Ministry of Transport's part."
 Mr. Paterson : I had a meeting last week with Railtrack and Virgin Rail and am pleased to say that they are planning to bring forward by a year, to next summer, the planned date for restoring daily services from Shrewsbury to London. However, in Shropshire we want both. We want better rail services, but we also want, indeed need—this is the point of my speech—a better road, because certain traffic will not go by rail.
 Mr. Ashdown : Will the Prime Minister confirm that one of the Government's key commitments is to equal opportunities throughout the United Kingdom?
 Mr. Ashdown : I am grateful for that confirmation. Will the right hon. Gentleman then tell me how that commitment is consistent with the fact that the Government are to require English, Welsh and Northern Irish students at Scottish universities to pay for their fourth year, whereas Scottish students and students from every other European country will not have to pay?
 309
4.  Mr. Nicholls : What role his special advisers played during the referendum campaign in Wales. [12378]
 Mr. Nicholls : Would not the right hon. Gentleman's account of the work of political advisers in the campaign be fuller if he drew attention to the fact that one of his special advisers telephoned Blaenau Gwent council, asking it to put pressure on the hon. Member for Blaenau Gwent (Mr. Smith), saying that if he did not co-operate, access would be denied—or possibly even granted—to the right hon. Gentleman? Is not that attitude to constitutional propriety more reminiscent of the late Mr. Fawkes, whose happy demise we shall be celebrating today? Does the right hon. Gentleman have confidence in a verdict that gave him such a very small majority, obtained only through a massive expenditure of public money and by strong arming his hon. Friends?
 Mr. Peter Bottomley : I know that these issues go beyond the Minister's Department, but will the
 246
 Mr. Peter Bottomley  (Worthing, West) : The House will be grateful to the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Kidney) for raising this subject and for the way in which he introduced the debate. I suspect that there will be both all-party agreement and Government action on the two specific points that he made, which I shall rehearse and emphasise. 233 234 235
 Mr. Peter Bradley  (The Wrekin) : On the road safety point, does my hon. Friend accept that priority should be afforded to people who live alongside major trunk roads, such as the A5? My constituents in the Wrekin, through which the A5 passes, must cross that road occasionally—although they may not use it—at extremely dangerous junctions. I also press the point about the pressure on local roads that is caused when through traffic seeks to circumvent traffic jams and pinch points by rat running through country lanes. I hope that those specific pressures in my constituency and in those of other hon. Members will be considered in the integrated review that my hon. Friend has outlined.
 Mr. Hain : The Prime Minister did not say that. It is a bit rich for Conservatives to complain about the situation in higher education. They reduced many of our universities in Wales to near bankruptcy. Under the previous financial regime, they saddled students with huge debts. We are introducing a new system that is fair to students, to parents, to universities and to our country. It will establish higher education on a sound basis and give our students the opportunities that they deserve.
 Mr. Hain : I am due to meet the president of the National Union of Students, Wales at the beginning of December. I recently met a deputation of students in my constituency.
 Mr. Hain : I am aware of the allegations. My officials are keeping me informed about the progress of the investigation.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Peter Hain) : The Government have already brought in legislation to fulfil their election pledge to phase out the assisted places scheme. In addition, we shall shortly present to Parliament legislation containing measures on higher and further education and on raising standards of education for every pupil in schools in Wales.
 Mr. Hain : I visited Swansea university last Friday. It is a fine university. Under the Conservative Government, universities in Wales faced a growing financial crisis. That is why I am pleased—
 Mr. Hain : Just wait for it. I am pleased to announce for next year an additional £10 million for higher education in Wales. That new investment will match proportionately
 299
 Mr. Hain : Yes, I can confirm that. The new Government have made an auspicious start by publishing the first-ever education White Paper for Wales covering schools. Next year, we shall publish the first-ever education White Paper covering lifelong learning. That is a sign of our intention to establish a distinctive educational agenda for Wales that meets the interests and values of Wales.
 Mr. Hain : It is not money from elsewhere in the education budget—it is additional money, which has come in part from the up-front funding from the introduction of student fees for tuition.
 Mr. Pike : Will my right hon. Friend recognise that it is hypocritical of some Conservative Members to decry the fact that we are not able to take into account the wind chill factor in cold weather payments when, within the past 12 months, they have blocked a Bill that would have done exactly that? Is it not true that, as a result of our changes to value added tax on fuel, we have given a far better benefit to every pensioner in the country than the wind chill measure would have given them?
 Mr. Philip Hammond  (Runnymede and Weybridge) : The Bill's stated intention to remove a potential anomaly in the market when the nuclear contracts change next year is in itself uncontroversial, but it is wrapped in a permissive form that endows the Minister with additional powers. To introduce it when reviews are still under way and before we know their conclusions raises broader issues.
 Mr. Hammond : I understood the Minister perfectly. I think that I was heading in the right direction. I am seeking to establish whether the Minister's review, and the other Government reviews, could lead to a broadening of the scope of the NFFO obligation, which would be
 357
 Mr. Hammond : My hon. Friend anticipates my next point. The non-fossil fuel obligation has undoubtedly been a success, but we must ask ourselves where we should go in future. There is evidence that many consumers are willing to pay a premium for renewable, or green, energy. Studies in the United States, Australia and New Zealand, and even limited market experience, have already shown that there is a potential market for green electricity. That offers us the prospect of less need for taxation through the levy and the subsidy of renewable energy, and a greater choice for consumers, who can make the decision for themselves to pay for green power. 358
 Mr. Morgan : I thank my hon. Friend for that reply. How will he get round the problem that will be caused in the Cardiff area by the likely proposal to merge the two big hospital trusts, University Hospital of Wales and Llandough, given that their expected deficit at the end of this financial year will be more than £7.5 million? That is equivalent to 35 per cent. of the total expected deficit of all the trusts in Wales. Does my hon. Friend agree that in the Cardiff area it is not so much a question of NHS trusts as NHS bust?
9.  Mr. Rhodri Morgan : What progress has been made by his Department in reducing the number of NHS trusts in Wales. [12383]
 Mr. Livsey : Will the Minister consider removing the cap on local government expenditure in Wales to enable local communities to benefit from not having their services under the extreme pressure that they face at present?
8.  Mr. Livsey : What steps he will take to assist local authorities facing reductions in local services. [12382]
 Mr. Richard Livsey  (Brecon and Radnorshire) : It is good to follow the hon. Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire (Ms Lawrence). She has been doing her homework in visiting farms in her constituency, which is the best way to find out precisely what is going on. I thank the hon. Member for Ceredigion (Mr. Dafis) for raising this topic, which is vital in my constituency, a mainly farming area, with up to 25 per cent. of the population dependent on farming in one way or another. 256 257
 Mr. Page : The Prime Minister will remember that just before the summer recess, in response to a question from
 310
 Mr. Robin Corbett  (Birmingham, Erdington) : May I warmly congratulate my right hon. Friend and our Government on the publication of the White Paper and the setting of measurable targets on which an annual report will be given to the House? May I especially welcome the moves to ensure that all pupils learn more about development issues so that they will be better able than many of their parents to understand the importance of such issues in a shrinking world?
 Mr. Davies : Not at all. The hon. Gentleman raises a number of issues, and I shall try to deal with them. In the referendum of 18 September 1997, 25 per cent. of the people of Wales voted against the proposals. He has no basis on which to claim that those who did not vote in the referendum were expressing opposition. I cannot give him the guarantee that he requests on introducing the Bill into one or another House, because that is a matter for the Government's business managers. I can tell him, however, that I am anxious that there should be proper scrutiny of the legislation as it passes through the House. I have always made it clear that I expect the Bill to be published by the end of this month. I made that statement at the start of the legislative process, and I am happy to repeat it today. I expect the Bill to be published before the end of this month.
 Mr. Davies : I am afraid that the allegations to which the hon. Gentleman is referring are ancient history. Let me remind him that both my special advisers were properly
 303
 Mr. Ron Davies : My special advisers played an active role supporting my ministerial colleagues and me throughout the referendum campaign. Their wide-ranging duties included analysing policy, advising on presentational matters and liaising with Members of Parliament from my party and those in other parties and campaigning groups in Wales that supported the Government's policy. They were both pleased to be on the winning side.
 Mr. Davies : I am delighted to be able to agree with my hon. Friend. I refer him to an article in the  Western Mail "A wave of optimism is sweeping across Wales as consumers indulge themselves in a pro-devolution spending boom celebration". "The pro-devolution votes have unleashed an unprecedented wave of optimism in both Wales and Scotland".
 Mr. Davies : I am afraid that the right hon. Gentleman is stuck in a time warp. Politics has changed, and the vast majority of people in Wales now understand that there will be a new democracy. No prime ministerial visit was arranged for Wales for 19 September. What I remember from 19 September was my announcing the Government's determination to proceed with the devolution plans on the basis that it was a very good morning for Wales. 302
 Mr. Davies : I agree with the right hon. Gentleman—I congratulate him on achieving that new status—that the
 301 "Financial assistance to industry will remain subject to common UK guidelines and consultation arrangements to be set out in a published concordat."
 Mr. Davies : I welcome my hon. Friend's comments. He has for many years made known his views known on Welsh devolution. I am delighted that he, like many other people in Wales who had reservations about the proposals, now accepts the outcome. I agree that it is a great pity that the Conservative party in England does not talk to the Conservative party in Wales. The Conservative party in Wales, what little there is, has now accepted that there is no turning back the clock. It wants to play a constructive part in building the new democracy, and it is a pity that Conservative Front Benchers do not learn some lessons from it.
 Mr. Davies : Those are interesting questions, but they deal with matters that the Assembly itself will have to decide. The purpose of devolution is to empower the Assembly to deal with those matters relating to Wales that are best dealt with in Wales. The Under-Secretary, my hon. Friend the Member for Neath (Mr. Hain), is examining ways in which we can improve road and rail links between north and south Wales—an important matter. As for the Assembly meeting in north Wales, it will have the right to choose where to meet. I certainly expect the Assembly to have its headquarters in Cardiff, but there will be a north Wales committee. The Assembly may well decide to meet in various parts of Wales when it wishes to examine matters of current concern.
 Mr. Ron Davies : The Government put their proposals to the people of Wales in a vote on 18 September. I am delighted to remind the hon. Gentleman that the people of Wales recorded a yes vote. There was a massive 30 per cent. increase in the yes vote compared with 1979. The swings in the south and south-east were truly remarkable, from barely 12 per cent. in favour in West and Mid Glamorgan in 1979 to more than 55 per cent. in favour now. In Gwent and South Glamorgan, the yes vote rose from well under 10 per cent. to more than 40 per cent. We now have a unique opportunity to improve the governance of Wales and I look forward to introducing legislation at the earliest opportunity. We have a mandate, but it is important that we continue to broaden and deepen our support.
 Mr. Davies : I most certainly will. I am conscious of the fact that unemployment in my hon. Friend's constituency is 50 per cent. higher than the Welsh average. It is important that we use the resources that are available to us as effectively as we can. I have made it clear that the Welsh Office, the WDA, training and enterprise councils and local authorities should work together in partnership. That team approach is the only way to extend economic prosperity not only to Pembrokeshire but to the whole of Wales.
 Mr. Davies : I have had discussions with the WDA and it is already discussing with the Land Authority for Wales and the Development Board for Rural Wales the configuration of the new economic powerhouse. As the hon. Gentleman already knows, I am more than prepared at any time to listen to any representations that he, or any other parliamentary colleague, wishes to make to me.
 Mr. Davies : I most certainly will. My right hon. Friend knows that the Velindre site, in which he has taken a
 298
 The Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Ron Davies) : One of the WDA's strategic targets for 1997–98 is to create or to safeguard 12,500 jobs within Wales, of which not less than 50 per cent. should be outside the eastern M4 and A55 corridors. The agency recorded 7,870 jobs created or safeguarded up to the end of September, of which 4,018—or 51 per cent.—were outside the eastern corridors. Recently, I met the agency's board and told it of my particular concern about the Pembrokeshire economy.
Q2. [12356]  Mr. Day : Can the Prime Minister explain why, if someone commits murder and terrorist offences against the people of Bosnia British troops are dispatched to arrest him and bring him to trial, whereas if someone commits murder against the people of the United Kingdom and terrorises them for 25 years, all he will feel is the warmth and glow of a prime ministerial handshake?
 Mr. Stuart Bell  (Middlesbrough) : The House will welcome the Secretary of State's noble imperative of attacking world trade—[HON. MEMBERS: "World poverty."] I am sorry—I am confusing my concepts. I have not read the White Paper, but will she confirm that on the back of trade we can expect a rise in living and labour standards in third-world countries? While the International Labour Organisation is an appropriate forum
 324
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : My right hon. Friend said rightly in her statement that conflict was a catastrophe for the planet. In those circumstances, is there in her Department a paper on the effects of sanctions, which have devastating results for the poorest people and
 328
 Mr. Tom Brake  (Carshalton and Wallington) : I thank the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Kidney) for initiating this morning's debate. Britain's road safety record is good, but there is no doubt that it can be improved on. We often hear the past 18 years mentioned in derogatory terms; in this case, we can congratulate the previous Administration on what they achieved in that time. 237 238
 Mr. Baldry : Does the Secretary of State accept that—although he tried so hard in that answer—almost three quarters of people in Wales did not support the proposals, which can hardly be described as the settled will of the people of Wales? In those circumstances, it must be right for the legislation to be scrutinised carefully. Will he give an undertaking that any Bill dealing with the proposals
 300
3.  Mr. Baldry : If he will make a statement on the outcome of the vote on a Welsh Assembly. [12377]
 The Prime Minister : I would describe them in this way: we have allocated an extra £300 million this year—
 313
 The Prime Minister : It is difficult enough to achieve a settlement in Northern Ireland without that type of utter perversion of the truth. The plain fact is that we shall seek to bring terrorists to justice wherever they may be, but it is important that we try to seek a long-term settlement in Northern Ireland. I supported the Conservative Government through every difficult decision that they had to take on this issue because in the end that was manifestly in the interests of the country. I very much hope that the Conservative party can put aside party differences on this and do the same.
 The Prime Minister : I shall not comment on the application to which the hon. Gentleman has drawn attention. I recall the question that I was asked. I drew attention to the fact that the proposals about which I was being asked had been drawn up by the previous Government. Of course we support the green belt and it is important that any planning applications are considered in conjunction with our support.
 The Prime Minister : I have made our position absolutely clear. Moreover, in the end the choice is whether we want to be part of the social chapter or not. This side of the House says, unhesitatingly, yes and I believe that the vast majority of British business wants a better, more constructive fresh start in Europe.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is right to draw attention to the range of powerful new measures we have already taken to improve the criminal justice system. He is also right to point out the public's concern about the risks posed by sex offenders who are not already subject to the Sex Offenders Act 1997. We shall therefore announce today new powers to protect the public from such sex offenders. Community protection orders will be applied to sex offenders whose conduct poses a serious threat to children and the public. I hope that those measures will go some way towards allaying the public's justifiable fear about these matters.
 The Prime Minister : As I said at conference, we have set up a ministerial group that is looking at every aspect of family policy. Part of the reason we have laid such emphasis on getting the long-term unemployed back to work and on trying to deal with the problems of education in our education system is that those are two of the ways in which we can best strengthen family life. As we have made clear throughout, whether in the tax and benefit system or in any other area of policy, the family is an essential part of British society and we should do everything that we can to support it.
 The Prime Minister : I thank my hon. Friend. I cannot give a commitment on any particular planning application, but we shall obviously consider her representations carefully. As for the civilians who died during the war, everyone in this House—especially the generations of us who grew up after the war—realises the debt that we owe not just to the troops who died but to the civilians who gave their lives, often in difficult circumstances requiring the greatest courage.
 The Prime Minister : I know that it is tough on that side, but we will just have to disagree about the social chapter. I believe that many small businesses welcome our proposals, not least the cut in corporation tax to the lowest it has been, with particular reference to small businesses. I repeat—although I do not think that we will greatly advance the argument between us—that what business fears is a business community trying to do business with the rest of Europe and a Government who end up being isolated and separated from the rest of Europe. That is why, if the hon. Lady had the interests of business at heart, she should join us—as I thought for a moment she would—rather than continue to support the views of her party leadership, which are contrary to the best interests of business.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is absolutely right to draw attention to the importance of transport policy as part of our policy of sustainable development. That is precisely why we have committed ourselves to our own proposals and targets and why we have been part of the European Union's commitment to proper binding targets for the long term. The Kyoto conference, which is coming up shortly, will provide a further opportunity for us to take international action. In the meantime, at the conclusion of our consultation on transport policy, I hope that we can offer for the first time the genuine prospect of a proper national integrated transport strategy, which has been overdue for a long, long time.
 The Prime Minister : There are no proposals under the social chapter to stop flexibility. That is the simple answer. We have a simple choice: we can be part of discussions in Europe or be shut out from them. That is precisely why British business would prefer us to be engaged in discussions that might affect it, rather than excluded from them. If the right hon. Lady wants to know what British business really fears about Europe, it fears the policy of her party, which she and the person sitting next to her—the right hon. and learned Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke)—do not agree with.
 The Prime Minister : I should congratulate the hon. Gentleman on, for the first time in my memory, being on his party's message. It was very well delivered, too. We are just going to have to disagree on the social chapter. The fact is that there are no measures in the social chapter that will cause problems for British business. That idea is absolute nonsense. We were told before the election, I seem to recall, that if Britain signed the social chapter half a million jobs would flood out of the country. It has all been nonsense. What is important is that we are part of the debate in Europe. The Government of this country—and this is in the interests of business—stand up for British interests best when they play a positive, constructive and forward-looking role. If the Conservative party does not learn that soon, it will spend a long time in opposition learning it.
 The Prime Minister : The purpose of the announcement that has been made today by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Education and Employment is to ensure that the benefits of specialist schools reach beyond those schools. The number of such schools will increase from 260 to about 330 by next September, when we will want to increase the number further. We hope to devote about –9 million in private sponsorship to developing those schools. It is precisely because we are insisting that those schools share their resources with the schools around them that we can say that the policy will benefit the many and not the few.
 The Prime Minister : Yes, we certainly have considered that. It is tremendous for Manchester and for Britain that we will host the Commonwealth games in 2002. We are confident that they will be highly successful. The Government and the UK Sports Council are working closely with the Manchester team. There is an interdepartmental group to assist Manchester in the delivery of a successful event. We are delighted that Manchester is hosting the games. We know that they will be a great success and the Government will give them every support.
 The Prime Minister : Of course I agree that people should not be penalised for wearing poppies. I am sure that the hon. Gentleman will agree that both traditions and both sides of the community in Northern Ireland want to support what happened in the second world war and realise that people of whatever religion made tremendous contributions in fighting and in winning that war.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. He knows that there will be a statement shortly on the Government's White Paper. I agree entirely with my hon. Friend that we must focus aid on the poorest countries while ensuring that it is not wasted on projects such as the Pergau dam—which was a scandal under the previous Government—but is spent in a way that contributes to countries' overall development.
 The Prime Minister : We have already made it clear that this is a Commission proposal and that we do not believe that it should be extended. The right hon. Gentleman is making a pretty transparent attempt to hide the fact that his party is hopelessly divided on the issue. Indeed, just a few weeks ago, the Leader of the Opposition said:
 "The days of disunity, factions and wings, groups within groups … is over"— [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : I thought that they would enjoy hearing the words of the Leader of the Opposition. He said:
 "The days of disunity … is over. It's finished. It's out. And as long as I am leader it will never come back."
 The Prime Minister : For 18 years the Conservatives failed to get a deal on border controls. It is this party that
 308
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. The Conservative party broke the link with earnings for pensioners, it would end the tax relief on pension contributions, and it was responsible for the greatest pensions scandal—the mis-selling of pensions—the country has ever seen. The Conservatives promised that they would never raise VAT and then doubled it. My party promised to cut VAT and kept the promise.
 The Prime Minister : Yes.
 The Prime Minister : No, that is not entirely accurate. Students from inside the European Union but outside the United Kingdom last year numbered some 350; they will not be eligible for maintenance loans so they will be in a worse position than British students, whether English or from other parts of the United Kingdom.
 The Prime Minister : After the past couple of weeks, I think that business prefers our position on Europe to that of the Conservatives. I simply say to the right hon. Gentleman that we not only got a good deal for this country in Europe; we managed to set the country on a different path in our relations with Europe that allows us to play a part in leading in Europe, not to be perpetually isolated in Europe. Whatever he may say, I think that a large number of people who support the Conservative party want this country to behave sensibly in Europe—and we will.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is absolutely right to raise that concern. I understand that the Home Secretary is considering a number of representations on the subject and will announce a decision shortly.
 The Prime Minister (Mr. Tony Blair) : This morning, with my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for International Development, I launched a White Paper setting out the Government's commitment to sustainable development and the elimination of international poverty. I shall have meetings with ministerial colleagues and others later in the day.
 The Prime Minister : No. I do not think that I have ever heard such nonsense. I am rather surprised that the hon. Gentleman did not make a case for a referendum on the Amsterdam treaty, but perhaps that is because, a couple of days ago, Lord Howe said:
 "Fortunately, the public has reacted to this proposal with complete indifference."
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is absolutely right that it is an important White Paper. It will allow us to put our aid and development programmes on a sound footing. In particular, it means that any money that is spent abroad by this country is spent on the basis of long-term programmes that work not just to the benefit of those individual countries but for the long-term benefit of the developing and developed world.
 The Prime Minister : No. We have already made our position clear; we do not believe that such extensions are sensible. It is simply a Commission proposal at present. Let me tell the right hon. Gentleman that the biggest extension of qualified majority voting was agreed by the Government of which he was a member.
 The Prime Minister : As I have already made clear to the right hon. Gentleman— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Tony Colman  (Putney) : May I add to that list the Thames bubbler, a larger vessel owned by Thames Water
 272
 Mr. Vernon Coaker  (Gedling) : I challenge the hon. Gentleman to come to the coalfield areas in and around Nottingham that I represent and to those represented by other Labour Members and to ask people there whom they choose to run the coal industry—the Tories or a Labour Government who are trying to deal with the mess left by the previous Government.
 Mr. Hague : Now that we have had the old propaganda, let us have an answer. Can the Prime Minister give a guarantee that he will prevent the regulations to which he is opposed and to which British small businesses are opposed—yes or no?
 Mr. Hague : I am asking the Prime Minister about the social chapter. Given that he is opposed to these regulations, does he now regret signing away our veto? Can he give small businesses a guarantee that he will prevent those regulations coming into force—yes or no?
 Mr. Hague : Has the Prime Minister seen reports that the European Commission wants to extend to tens of thousands of smaller British firms regulations that now apply only to large multinationals? Can he confirm that British businesses are opposed to that? Can he confirm that the Government are opposed to that? Now that he has
 307
 Mr. Hague rose [Interruption.]
 Mr. Hague : We have got used to the Prime Minister dodging questions at these sessions, but we have not been used to its becoming more pathetic as the questions go on. The fact is that he went to Amsterdam, signed away this country's legal rights by accident and came back with a letter saying, "Don't worry about it." That is not very good for a lawyer, is it? After all this, is it not obvious that the assurances that he offered businesses about European regulation before the election are like the assurances he gave to students and to people with pension funds—absolutely worthless?
 Mr. Hague : It is no good the Prime Minister giving the answers he prepared last week to the questions he is being asked this week. If he has such faith in his negotiating power, will he make a better fist of negotiating in the social chapter than he made of the border control agreement? Does he not regret boasting to the House in June that if we wanted to opt into the border control agreement no other country could block it? Now that the Foreign Secretary has said that that was a misunderstanding and other countries could block it, is it not clear that what the Prime Minister said in the House was wrong?
 Mr. Griffiths : I have every confidence that the management of both trusts will be able to bring the
 306
 Mr. Griffiths : We in the Welsh Office have had a constructive debate with the Welsh Local Government Association and, in particular, with the Welsh Consultative Council on Local Government Finance. A package of proposals has been put forward to which Councillor Shaw from Powys county council made an invaluable contribution. We are considering those proposals. On the basis of our last meeting, we believe that there will be a way forward in this difficult year and that, while it will not lead to the removal of capping, there will be sufficient room in the system to keep everybody happy at least for the coming year.
 Mr. Win Griffiths : The Welsh Office is currently consulting on proposals to create a single ambulance trust for Wales, and hon. Members for Welsh constituencies will have received a copy of the consultation document. In addition, a finalised plan for reviewing the number and shape of the other NHS trusts in Wales is due to be completed by April 1999. The document was distributed on 30 September. A copy of the project plan has also been placed in the Library of the House.
 Mr. Griffiths : The hon. Gentleman will know that we face the problem of working within the budget that the Conservative Government considered to be sufficient to deal with those issues. All I can say is that we are looking for ways to provide some short-term help, but there is no question of my being able to trumpet any major figures now, because difficult discussions are still going on. We accept that there is a need to do something in the short term, but it is difficult. I would not wish to raise anyone's hopes, but the point—
 Mr. Griffiths : I would love to be able to, but 1 can say only that we are giving the matter top priority. The sooner it happens, the better, but I cannot set a deadline because that would look as if I were holding our European colleagues to ransom. I assure the House that it is a top Government priority.
 267 268 269
 Mr. Griffiths : The Secretary of State for Wales, my fellow Under-Secretary, my hon. Friend the Member for Neath (Mr. Hain) and I will use our respective briefs to consider that issue. We want to ensure that our economic powerhouse, to which reference has already been made, adds value to the work of the Rural Development Agency, to strengthen the rural economy in Wales. 270
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Win Griffiths) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Ceredigion (Mr. Dafis) on his success in the ballot and on taking the opportunity to raise matters of great importance to the rural communities of Wales. I also thank my hon. Friends the Members for Preseli Pembrokeshire (Ms Lawrence) and for Clwyd, West (Mr. Thomas) and the hon. Members for Brecon and Radnorshire (Mr. Livsey), for Ynys Môn (Mr. Jones) and for Montgomeryshire (Mr. Öpik), all of whom made thoughtful contributions.
 Mr. Griffiths : There is no such thing as the green belt being up for grabs in Wales. Under current planning guidance in Wales, there is no green belt. However, earlier this summer, I wrote to all Welsh planning authorities asking them to consider those places where it would be appropriate to have green belts because of the danger of one settlement running into another.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Win Griffiths) : I have received the Welsh Local Government Association's housing manifesto for Wales, which urges an increase in social housing provision.
 Mr. Win Griffiths : We are well aware of the financial pressures on local government in Wales and will do what we can in the forthcoming revenue settlement to recognise them, although the room for manoeuvre in 1998–99 is relatively small.
 Mr. Griffiths : I can give no categorical, cast-iron assurances of significant action in the short term, but I assure the hon. Gentleman that, although we are not yet convinced that there is a proven case for tackling any aspect of the green pound revaluation, we have given an undertaking to continue reviewing that. We have until next January to make final decisions on most aspects of the green pound revaluation. I assure the hon. Gentleman that we shall continue to keep that under review.
 Mr. Griffiths : That is certainly the case. It is a pity that the previous Government were so anti-European—virtually at war with Europe. This Government have much improved relationships with Europe. They will be further improved next week, when my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Wales will visit Brussels for discussions with, among others, the Agriculture Commissioner.
 Mr. Win Griffiths : My right hon. Friend and I met both farming unions in Wales on Friday 30 May and again just over a week ago. Welsh Office Ministers and officials have had discussions with both unions on numerous occasions.
 Mr. Griffiths : Under the capital receipts initiative, more than £9 million will be available this year and more than £33 million in the next financial year. Local authorities will be able to put forward proposals on how that money might be spent. They will be able to provide more new houses if they act together with housing associations, bringing in private capital. One way or another, the capital receipts initiative is good news for housing and people in Wales.
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : I beg to move,
 That, in pursuance of the Parliament Act 1911, this House directs that the provisions of section 1(1) of that Act shall not apply to the Ministerial and Other Salaries Bill. "the Bill shall, unless the House of Commons direct to the contrary, be presented to Her Majesty and become an Act of Parliament on the Royal Assent being signified, notwithstanding that the House of Lords have not consented to the Bill."
Q6. [12361]  Mrs. Gillan : The small and medium businesses in this country have— [Interruption.] 312
 Mrs. Gillian Shephard  (South-West Norfolk) : The Conservative party supports the measure and the House has already approved it. It has reappeared today because of a technicality in the House of Lords' handling of the matter, so it would be perverse in the extreme not to support today a measure which we supported in July.
Q7. [12363]  Mrs. Ballard : I am not going to ask the Prime Minister about small businesses. Exactly one year ago today, the then Leader of the Opposition described the national health service as being in a state of crisis and the Tories' spending plans as a sticking plaster to get them through the election. As hospital waiting lists are now increasing, and as the Department of Health confirmed today that expenditure this year will be less in real terms than it was under the Conservatives, how would the Prime Minister describe this Government's spending plans?
 Ms Lawrence : Will my right hon. Friend continue to keep it in mind that, in recent years, parts of Wales have suffered a battering, particularly my constituency of Preseli Pembrokeshire? Defence establishments and a Gulf oil refinery there have closed and the power station in neighbouring Pembroke has also been shut down. Will he do all that he can to bring inward investment to west Wales to tackle the local economic crisis?
1.  Ms Lawrence : What progress has been made by the Welsh Development Agency in meeting its target in respect of jobs created being based outside the eastern M4 corridor and the A55 corridor. [12375]
 Ms Jackie Lawrence  (Preseli Pembrokeshire) : I speak as a Member who has inherited part of the former constituency of the hon. Member for Ceredigion (Mr. Dafis), so I am aware of many of the difficulties that he has mentioned. 254 255 "with safe land in sight—the ship does not sink before it gains the shore".
 Ms Lawrence : Will the hon. Gentleman confirm whether that £60 million was put in the spending plans that this Government took over?
 Ms Lawrence : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mrs. Maria Fyfe  (Glasgow, Maryhill) : I am glad to be the first Labour Member to welcome warmly my right hon. Friend's White Paper. Does it not paint a significant contrast between this Government and the previous Government? Whereas we did not see such a White Paper in the 18 years of the previous Administration, it has taken this Government only six months to produce one. Will she comment further on her plans for women? I know that she is particularly interested in that aspect of the issue. Women in impoverished countries often suffer doubly, because they are oppressed by political and cultural outlooks that make a poor life even worse for them. I look forward to hearing her plans.
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley  (South-West Surrey) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Kidney) on securing the opportunity for a debate of such importance. "first, to make better use of existing infrastructure; secondly, to manage demand; and thirdly, to provide new infrastructure."—[ Official Report 241
 Ann Clwyd  (Cynon Valley) : I warmly congratulate my right hon. Friend on establishing so quickly the principles according to which she will work in her new Department. I congratulate her especially on the focus on poverty and on women—we all know that investment in women is very good investment.
 Ms Ward : Will my right hon. Friend confirm that it remains the Government's intention to prohibit the introduction of the rapid draw lottery known as Pronto, based on the American system Keno? Does he agree that if it were introduced it would damage the national lottery and give rise to great concern about an increase in gambling?
 Clare Short : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for her remarks. She is absolutely right. The fact is that 70 per cent. of the world's poor are women and children, and that we cannot make progress without strengthening women's position. It is now absolutely proven that educating girls is transformatory. In the poorest countries, however, girls are excluded from education. We will not succeed in development unless we achieve as a priority the objective of universal primary education. Strengthening the position and confidence of women who care for children, and increasing their access to credit, so that they can increase family income will also be absolutely key to making progress.
 The Secretary of State for International Development (Clare Short) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I wish to make a statement about international development. I am today publishing a White Paper, entitled "Eliminating World Poverty: A Challenge for the 21st Century". It will be available in the Vote Office when I have finished speaking. "We support high quality growth. This means growth that results in a permanent reduction in poverty and greater equality of economic opportunity." 316 317
 Clare Short : I am grateful to the right hon. Gentleman for his support for the White Paper. I agree that the Select Committee's announcement that it intends to scrutinise it is welcome to everyone, because we want the broadest possible agreement about how to take this matter forward. 320 321 [Interruption.] 322
 Clare Short : I am grateful to my hon. Friend, and I pay my respects to her work on exposing the Pergau scandal. Of course there will be no repeat of Pergau, because what happened was illegal. The previous Government were hauled through the courts for breaching their own laws. There will be no link between aid and arms sales under this Administration. It was illegal under the previous Administration.
 Clare Short : I am grateful to the right hon. and learned Gentleman. In fact, Britain's lead on debt relief started under a previous Labour Government, but I have paid full tribute to the right hon. and learned Gentleman's contribution and to that of his Government. However, he will know that some countries say that Britain keeps taking the high ground but not producing too much money. I am sure that he is familiar with the idea that many countries thought that his initiatives were of that kind—good on analysis but short on resources. I pay genuine tribute to the leadership that Britain has given under the previous Government, under the previous Labour Government and now under this Government, with the Chancellor's efforts on debt relief. However, we must do more. 325
 Clare Short : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. He will know that the projections of increased wealth in the world from globalisation are very large indeed, but if the process is not well managed, there is a risk that it will marginalise some countries and cause growing inequality within countries. That is why we need support for core labour standards and a strengthening of the ILO.
 Clare Short : The hon. Lady is a new hon. Member, and we will therefore have to be a little patient. I know, however, that her intentions are good. I forgot to reply to the right hon. Member for Eddisbury (Sir A. Goodlad) on family planning, but she has also raised the issue. Almost half the people in the world do not have access to family planning, which is a grave breach of their rights and ability to raise healthy and educated children. Our commitment to universal basic health care includes a commitment to reproductive health care and to an expansion in provision for everyone in the world, so that people can make their own decisions about their own family size.
 Clare Short : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. The beauty of the targets is that they are internationally agreed. If we could get the international system to work
 327
 Clare Short : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman. The point about Government-to-Government conversation, where we can get it and where we are dealing with good Governments committed to poverty eradication, is that we can work with a country that wants to introduce universal primary education by giving support for teacher training, books and administrative systems. We could perhaps help finance departments to get rid of wasteful spending and redirect money and so create sustainable, long-term universal services. That is the best way to work, but it works only if the people of the country involved know the plans, own them and are able to participate and push their Government forward. We get success in countries that are committed, and where public opinion understands the commitment and pushes the Government to make greater progress.
 Clare Short : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman. I very much welcome the Select Committee inquiry. I want our commitments to be deeply shared across the country to strengthen any Government's endeavours. The work of the Select Committee will help us with that and I look forward to giving evidence.
 Clare Short : No, it did not. Sadly, the figure came down to 0.27 per cent. under the previous Administration. We shall reverse that and reinstate our proud record.
 Clare Short : I know that the hon. Gentleman receives many letters; I receive letters from him enclosing some of those letters. I agree that these matters inspire deep feelings across the country, and I admire our people for having those concerns.
 Clare Short : I defer to my hon. Friend's knowledge of the banking sector, which surprises many people. I would not dream of challenging his detailed grasp of these matters. The big debt write-off that is needed now is debt to the International Monetary Fund and the World bank, which would ease public sector and government debt around the world. I assure my hon. Friend that there will be no rip off of the aid programme in any way whatsoever; it will be used to promote development for the poorest and nothing else.
 Clare Short : I am grateful to my hon. Friend, and I agree that trade is very important. We want to back good Governments who are struggling to make progress much more, so that they succeed and so that people who live under bad Governments are given hope and are offered examples of good Governments elsewhere. We need to establish solidarity with the people who live under bad Governments by, for instance, working with NGOs.
 Clare Short : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. It is important to spell out the fact that human rights include political rights, the right to education, and social and economic rights. A commitment to human rights unites the north and the south of the world. I would add that we are also talking about the right to free expression, the right to a job and the right to a decent life—we want to reinforce them all.
 Clare Short : My hon. Friend is right. The world history of conflicts since the end of the cold war reveals that they have been concentrated in poor countries. They are caused by poverty, and those conflicts, in turn, create poverty and instability, which affect civilians and create refugees. As a key to development, we must prevent that and build people's life possibilities instead of their descending into war.
 Clare Short : I share the hon. Gentleman's concern. We are all desperately worried about the middle east peace process which is not going forward as rapidly as we would wish. He will be aware that we have considerable programmes in Gaza and on the west bank, but the constant closure of the borders and people's inability to work are reducing income levels and creating yet more poverty and desperation there. I can give the hon. Gentleman our commitment to continue to work on the west bank and in Gaza and, as a Government, to do everything we can, particularly during our EU presidency, to bolster the peace process.
 Clare Short : I invite the hon. Gentleman to read the White Paper. I would have loved to stand here and read the whole thing to him, but I do not think that you would have permitted that, Madam Speaker.
 Clare Short : I am grateful to my hon. Friend who has so noisily defended ATP—there may have been a little movement on it which I welcome greatly. 329
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Ms Glenda Jackson) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Stafford (Mr. Kidney) on securing this Adjournment debate and affording the House the opportunity to discuss the important issue of road safety. 244 245
 Ms Jackson : I hear what the hon. Gentleman says. I can assure him that one of the benchmarks of this Government is the drive that Departments should communicate with each other. I shall certainly raise the point that he has made. The hon. Gentleman will be aware that someone who has been charged with an offence is not a convicted person. I understand, of course, the hon. Gentleman's concern that a driver who has been charged may continue to drive until his or her case is heard. The answer is to ensure that cases come before the courts speedily. The Government are working on proposals to reduce delays throughout the criminal justice system.
 Ms Jackson : My hon. Friend makes a valid point and it is one which I have had occasion to raise with car manufacturers in the past. Their consideration of the points that I was making was quite marked. I can make no promises, but the manufacturers are listening. 247 248
 The Minister for Transport in London (Ms Glenda Jackson) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Gravesham (Mr. Pond) on obtaining this timely debate and thank him for his generosity in allowing interventions by my hon. Friends the Members for Putney (Mr. Colman) and for Sittingbourne and Sheppey (Mr. Wyatt). I shall write to my hon. Friend the Member for Putney on the issue that he raised. If, by any chance, I do not manage to touch on all the points that my hon. Friends have made, I shall forward complete copies of my speech. 276 277 278
 Ms Jackson : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for that intervention, which highlights difficulties, real dangers and concerns that are not limited to his constituents or his constituency. They can be replicated across the whole country, which is why the issues on which my hon. Friend has touched will be central to our White Paper. 284
 Ms Jackson : I shall certainly consider the concerns that the hon. Gentleman has expressed. I knew that part of the road on the Welsh side of the border well as a child, and resentment was clearly felt then on the Welsh side about what was perceived to be unfair expenditure in Wales. 283
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Ms Glenda Jackson) : I congratulate the hon. Member for North Shropshire (Mr. Paterson) on obtaining the debate and on delivering such an informed and passionate speech on behalf of his constituents without the benefit of a single note. I also congratulate him on his generosity in taking an intervention from the hon. Member for Ludlow (Mr. Gill) and in referring to my hon. Friend the Member for Shrewsbury and Atcham (Mr. Marsden). Both the hon. Gentleman and my hon. Friend have devoted a great deal of time and effort to drawing the attention of my noble Friend the Minister for Roads to the problems on the A5 between Shrewsbury and the Welsh border. The hon. Member for North Shropshire has detailed those difficulties to the House today.
 Ms Jackson : I am delighted to hear that Railtrack and Virgin Rail are producing the desired results for Shrewsbury. The hon. Gentleman referred to the needs of the people of Shrewsbury. Those needs could be replicated anywhere in the country. The Government are concerned to create a properly integrated transport strategy in which the carriage of passengers and freight can genuinely be shared.
 285
 Ms Jackson : It would be churlish for me to remind the hon. Gentleman why our integrated railways became less than integrated. It may have had something to do with his Government's policy of rail privatisation, but we, as the new Government, have to deal with the situation with which we have been left. He will be aware that we are concerned to ensure that the £1.8 billion of taxpayers' money that goes into our railways every year produces a high-quality railway service for the people of this country. We are continuing to urge Railtrack to ensure that it really does invest the amounts that it claims it is prepared to invest into our railway system, so that more passengers and freight can be moved on our rail network.
 Ms Jackson : As I have already pointed out, the whole purpose behind our consultation process and the publication of a White Paper next year is that there should be a strategy to create an integrated transport system not only for the short and medium term but well into the future. I refer the hon. Gentleman to the point that I made earlier: in Wales a similar review is taking place, based on exactly the same principle. We have to have a strategic overview. 286
 Helen Jones : Does my right hon. Friend agree that there will be widespread welcome for the first White Paper on international development to be published for 20 years? Will he tell the House whether it will deal with the needs of children, millions of whom die under the age of five because of poverty?
 Ms Oona King : Is the Prime Minister aware that on this day in the Chamber in 1940 the then Prime Minister commended civilians on their courage during the first years of the second world war? Subsequently, 60,000 British civilians died in that war, 30,000 of them Londoners. Does the Prime Minister agree that we should provide an adequate memorial for the civilians who died? Will he therefore call in the planning application for the Hermitage site so that a fitting memorial can go up? If the poppies that we are all wearing today are to have any meaning, we must give those people a suitable memorial.
 Yvette Cooper  (Pontefract and Castleford) : Is my hon. Friend aware of the pressure that the coal industry is under and of the anxieties of miners, whom I represent, in Kellingley and Prince of Wales collieries for their future?
 345
 Rev. Martin Smyth  (Belfast, South) : Not only will the House welcome the statement, but many outside the House will welcome it. The Secretary of State referred to education and, as the recipient of many letters from children pressing these issues, I understand the role that that plays in Northern Ireland. 330
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The long title of the Bill is a matter for the Government. It was established at the point of the Bill's inception. I am allowing a wide debate on the subject. If the hon. Gentleman and others have points that are germane to the Bill and its effects, I am sure that they will have the opportunity to put them.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. I know that the Minister is trying to be as helpful as possible, but I must point out to hon. Members that interventions must be brief if we are to have a proper debate. Some hon. Members have said that they want to catch my eye later, so we want the debate to flow.
 Dr. Cunningham : I absolutely agree with the hon. Gentleman. The last Administration's decision to establish the Meat Hygiene Service was a good one. It has worked: it has improved the efficiency of the system.  [Interruption.]
2.  Mr. Michael J. Foster : What steps he is taking to improve the performance of the Meat Hygiene Service. [12610]
 Dr. John Cunningham : My first priority is to safeguard the health and well being of consumers, and the Meat Hygiene Service is in absolutely no doubt of that.
 Mr. Foster : I thank my right hon. Friend for his answer. What steps does he intend to take to raise
 380
 Dr. Cunningham : We have taken a significant number of steps to improve consumer confidence in the hygiene and safety of meat in general and beef in particular. We shall publish individual hygiene assessment scores from January next year. We have taken action to remove dirty livestock from the food chain; contaminated carcases must never be passed as fit for human consumption; we are providing additional training for Meat Hygiene Service staff; we have stepped up attendance at plants, particularly those with low hygiene scores; and we have given a wider role to principal official veterinary surgeons as circuit supervisors of plant-based hygiene and inspection teams. In those and other ways, we are concentrating and focusing on driving up hygiene standards in the meat industry.
 Dr. John Cunningham : Numerous Government initiatives have helped to secure significant improvements in the beef consumption level, indicating a return of consumer confidence. However, the European beef sector remains in long-term structural surplus. The Government are pressing for fundamental reform of the EU beef regime through negotiations on the Commission's agenda 2000 proposals.
 Dr. Cunningham : We have been working hard to re-establish confidence not only in British beef but in the British Government's contribution to open and constructive dialogue in the affairs of the European Union, the Commission, the Council of Ministers and the Parliament. Two of our proposals are now under consideration in Brussels to lift partially the ban on British beef. The first is the certified herd scheme, and the second is the date-based scheme. It will be for the various committees of the Brussels Commission to make decisions on those schemes. I keep urging them to press ahead, without further delay.
 Dr. Cunningham : Administration of the scheme is dealt with by the Intervention Board executive agency. However, abattoirs have been chosen on the basis of competitive tender, hygiene performance and geographical location. I realise that the over-30-months
 388
 Dr. Cunningham : Yes, I recognise the first problem mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman, because he wrote to me about it. I said that I thought that that type of situation was clearly unsatisfactory, and that it should also be unnecessary.
 Dr. Cunningham : The COMA report has not been published in full, so I advise the hon. Lady to wait and
 389
 Dr. Cunningham : One abiding reason that the House can rarely, if ever, take the hon. Gentleman seriously is that he has only one mode, and that is always over the top. Given the location of his constituency and mine, I suspect that I have far more regular contact, and on a much wider basis, with hill farmers than he ever does. He asked why I have not matched in the coming year the previous Government's commitment to support for HLCAs—the answer is that I have. We are working on the same proposals as the previous Government.
 Mr. John M. Taylor : That is the hon. Gentleman's best shot.
 Sir Nicholas Lye11 : My right hon. Friend once again puts his finger on an important point. If I can have the Parliamentary Secretary's attention, there is an equally important point to develop.
 Mr. David Raney  (Bury St. Edmunds) : Will my hon. Friend continue with that article from  The Guardian
 Mr. John M. Taylor : Hear, hear.
 Mr. Taylor : That is because some of us do not have any hair at all.
 Mr. John M. Taylor : My right hon. Friend prefaced his remarks by saying, with false modesty, that he is not a lawyer. He is of course one of the Opposition's sharpest minds and best speakers. He singled out the Lord Chancellor's Department as having a special role, and I endorse that point. The Lord Chancellor is the President of the Supreme Court and the most senior judge in England. That distinguishes his Department from others.
 Mr. Malin : The Minister would not have said that the current choice is severely limited unless he had something with which to back up his statement. How wide is the field? What is the choice currently available?
 Mr. John M. Taylor : Will my right hon. and learned Friend take note of the fact, although the permanent secretary may not be the mainstream legal adviser to the Lord Chancellor, he has an important role in judicial appointments? When I was junior Minister to the Lord Chancellor it was made perfectly clear that I was excluded from any part of the functions relating to judicial appointments. The permanent secretary has that important role, and it is far from being administrative.
 Mr. John M. Taylor : Even as we debate clause stand part, some emphasis should be laid—not least for the record—on the importance of judicial appointments when considering the qualities and qualifications that the permanent secretary to the Lord Chancellor should hold. 447
 Mr. Taylor : I could not agree more with my right hon. and learned Friend, because he has stated the case exactly. 448
 Dr. Cunningham : Yes, I agree with the hon. Gentleman. That is one of the positive opportunities for reform that we should grasp. We should decouple CAP expenditure from production. I should like to see reductions in support—with, I emphasise, transitional support for farmers—so that we move towards market prices for commodities. We should transfer some of those resources into agri-environment schemes and into rural economies generally.
 Dr. Cunningham : I can partially agree with the hon. Gentleman. Some of the proposals will help us to conform with the likely requirements of the next round of WTO talks, and some will help us to develop a successful enlargement of the EU, which is the policy of Her
 378
 Dr. Cunningham : Exactly so—for a party which claims to be in touch with what is happening in the agriculture and food industries to suppose that that is not the case just shows how out of touch with reality it really is.
 Dr. Cunningham : There were several questions there.
 Dr. Cunningham : The truth of the matter is that that was the same rubbish that we heard from the right hon. Gentleman on Tuesday evening. I can confirm that the sheep annual premium is a demand-led scheme and is fully funded by the European Community. We make estimates of expenditure under the scheme, but there is no specific provision for that. To suggest that, because there may be less in sheep annual premium this year than last year, the difference is available to me to use for hill livestock compensatory allowances is absurd nonsense. If the right hon. Gentleman does not know that, let me tell him that hill farmers know it and they know that he is bogusly trying to raise a scare.
 The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Dr. John Cunningham) : I expect the Commission to propose detailed CAP reforms early next year. Making progress on discussion of those reforms will be a priority for the UK presidency of the Agriculture Council.
 Dr. Cunningham : Yes, I can give my hon. Friend assurance on both those points. First, I would not support any form of modulation which discriminated against the UK or our efficient farmers. There are arguments for reducing expenditure on the CAP, but the argument that expenditure should be targeted at less efficient farming does not appeal to me. As for directing the benefits of any change towards consumers, I can assure my hon. Friend that we expect consumers to benefit quite significantly from changes to the cereals, beef, and—if we could achieve them—the milk regime too.
 Mr. Jim Marshall  (Leicester, South) : May I ask my right hon. Friend to return to the issue of higher education, which was raised by the shadow Leader of the House? What kind of legislative vehicle do the Government intend to use for the introduction of tuition fees? Will primary or secondary legislation be required? Irrespective of the vehicle to be used, will she give a firm guarantee that there will be a full and frank debate—preferably a full-day debate—in the House?
 Dr. Liam Fox  (Woodspring) : Will the Leader of the House tell us when we can expect to see the Welsh and Scottish Bills? As has already been pointed out on a couple of occasions, there is confusion about why the Government should be seeking to devolve power on the one hand, and to recentralise decisions on inward investment on the other. Seeing the Bills would give us an early opportunity to discuss the ever-increasing turf war between Cabinet Ministers, and the ever-diminishing roles which are now humiliating the Secretary of State for Scotland and pushing the Secretary of State for Wales towards a very welcome resignation.
 Dr. Vincent Cable  (Twickenham) : I thank the Chair for this opportunity to speak on the Adjournment about the London fire service and an issue that is topical and of immense concern to the people of London, who value the security provided by the service and are worried about the way in which it is being eroded. 468 469 Hansard 470
 Madam Speaker : The Leader of the House may like to know that I have asked all Departments of the House to observe two minutes' silence at that time. It is up to each individual, but I hope that it will be observed throughout the House, as it will in my Department.
 Madam Speaker : That seemed to me more like an intervention than a point of order, but perhaps the Minister will tell us the answer.
 Madam Speaker : Order. I understand that it was announced in the House on Thursday that all stages would be taken today.
 Madam Speaker : Order. This question does not relate to badgers; it is about nutrition in the regions.
 13. Mr. Beith : If he will make a statement about the current state of the beef sector. [12622]
 Mr. Beith : Does the Minister realise that beef farmers in Northumberland have had animals transported from Northumberland to Cornwall for slaughter under the scheme and also face those transport costs? Does he realise that those beef farmers are also facing continued competition from imported beef, which still does not have to meet the standards that we set for our own beef product? Today, he has already admitted that hill beef farmers are facing particular difficulties. Does he realise that those difficulties are relevant to his decisions about hill livestock compensatory allowances?
 Mr. Alasdair Morgan : Is the Minister aware that radioactive contamination at sea also comes from nuclear establishments? Is he further aware that, as recently as
 387
 Mr. Alasdair Morgan  (Galloway and Upper Nithsdale) : Further to what was said by the hon. Member for Banbury
 406
 Mr. Dismore : I visited my local Crown Prosecution Service branch during the summer and found there a highly motivated group of people working hard, obviously in trying circumstances. I was very pleased that when I raised a specific case, the service was prepared to review its decision and to agree to prosecute a case that it had previously not prosecuted. I welcome my right hon. and learned Friend's point about the review by Sir lain Glidewell. When will it be completed?
 Mr. Andrew Dismore  (Hendon) : I, too, congratulate the hon. Member for Twickenham (Dr. Cable) on securing this Adjournment debate. 474
 Mr. Andrew George : While I appreciate the efforts being made by the Minister at the recent meeting of European Ministers to ensure that the most humane methods are employed to prosecute various fisheries throughout Europe, will he recognise, as I do, that many fishermen have chosen to employ other methods which take them away from the quota system, and will he respond to requests that compensation be afforded to the very few tuna drift net fishermen who will be damaged by any measures to ban their fishery so as to assist them to retrain and invest in other forms of fishery and remain off quota?
 Mr. Andrew Mackinlay  (Thurrock) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I am a bit confused about
 438
 Mr. Andrew Tyrie  (Chichester) : May we have an early statement from the Minister for Public Health to clear up the apparent conflict of interest between her family interests and her decision to exempt formula one motor racing from tobacco advertising? Financial Times Financial Times
 Mr. Tyrie : I think that I am right in saying that our nuclear weapons would be targeted from Omaha and, to all intents and purposes, co-operation would be required with the Americans for our missiles to be successfully launched and delivered to their target. In those circumstances, the idea of total independence is a fiction.
 Mr. Andrew Tyrie  (Chichester) : On verification, how concerned are the Government about the fact that there appear to have been explosions in, for example, the Russian arctic, which it appears seismic technology has not been capable of verifying as definite nuclear explosions? Is not verification the crucial issue? After all, we had only a partial nuclear test ban treaty—a treaty covering only atmospheric explosions—because it was impossible for many decades to check what was going on underground. If explosions are taking place which have not been correctly verified, a large part of the rationale for the treaty could be undermined.
 Mr. Tyrie : Will the Minister say something about sub-critical explosions and the concern that tests of very small weapons—mini neutron bombs and the like—which may find themselves excluded from the treaty de facto, could occur because it is difficult to know whether they have taken place? Will the Minister give a view on those problems?
 Mr. Barry Gardiner  (Brent, North) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Twickenham (Dr. Cable) on securing this debate, and on the measured and responsible way in which he presented the issues. 473
 Mr. Bradshaw : Does my hon. Friend share my great concern that consumer confidence in this country will be severely shaken if the World Trade Organisation succeeds in its current attempt to overthrow the European Union ban on imports of beef from America containing hormones that we all know cause cancer? Will he assure the House that he will join his colleagues in the European Union to fight the World Trade Organisation and the Americans tooth and nail?
3.  Mr. Bradshaw : What measures the Government are taking to ensure that the British public have confidence in his Department's statements about food safety. [12611]
 Mr. O'Brien : It is pleasing to note that from 1 January next year the EU presidency will be with the Labour Government. As one of the EU's objectives is to help small farms, will my right hon. Friend make every endeavour to ensure that the UK's large farms do not suffer under any CAP reforms? Will he also make every endeavour to assure us that the benefits of any CAP review will be felt by UK customers in the form of lower food prices?
1.  Mr. Bill O'Brien : What plans he has for speeding up reforms to the common agricultural policy. [12609]
 Mr. Blizzard : When considering the effects of European policy on British agriculture, farmers in my constituency are rather keen on the single European currency. Was not the Chancellor's statement on the euro last week in the best interests of British agriculture, while the stance taken by the Leader of the Opposition does a disservice to farmers and shows that the Opposition are completely out of touch with the countryside?
 Mr. Charles Kennedy : Will the Minister acknowledge that one of the potential benefits that can accrue to the United Kingdom through the coincidence of his custodianship of the Council of Ministers in the first half of next year and the CAP reform agenda is that he will be in a position to resist the understandable political temptation to speed up reform and, if he judges it correctly from a British as well as a wider European interest, he can ensure that time is taken to get the matter right, not least in the light of the implications that were acknowledged by the hon. Member for Waveney (Mr. Blizzard)?
9.  Mr. Pickthall : If he will make a statement about the level of confidence of the British public in British beef. [12618]
 Mr. Pickthall : I thank my right hon. Friend for that reply. Will he go on to tell us whether he detects greater confidence in British beef among our European partners, and how that confidence might be manifested in policy or regulation changes?
5.  Mr. Amess : What recent representations he has received on the common fisheries policy. [12613]
 Mr. Amess : Will the Minister do all he possibly can to reverse the decline of the inshore fishery? Is he aware that
 383
 Mr. David Faber  (Westbury) : I thank the Minister for bringing the Bill before the House and echo his warm words of support for the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty. The Opposition welcome the Bill. As he said, it received a fair wind in another place. We recognise that it provides the legislation necessary to ratify the treaty. He has given us a very full and detailed technical explanation of the Bill's contents, for which I am grateful.
 459 "It is our firm conviction that this treaty is in the interests of all, and I urge all states to give it their full support." 460 "Our people and army are keeping a close eye on the British military whipping up war fever in the Korean peninsula." 461
 Mr. Hanson : I thank my hon. Friend both for his comments today and for his statement in July. That brought to light, for the first time, unacceptable practices undertaken under previous Governments to dump radioactive material at sea—including in Liverpool bay, off the north Wales coast, near my constituency.
8.  Mr. Hanson : If he will make a statement on progress into investigations into the dumping of radioactive material at sea. [12617]
34.  Mr. David Heath : What plans he has to introduce local accountability in respect of the prosecution policy of the Crown Prosecution Service. [12647]
 Mr. Heath : I am grateful to the Attorney-General for that answer, which touches on management if not accountability. Does he, however, understand the dismay and frustration of communities, such as those in the Martock and Wincanton areas of my constituency, when high-profile police action takes place and the result is either a decision not to prosecute or, worse still, no decision on whether to prosecute after more than 12 months? Does he agree that there is a need for far greater transparency and far greater local accountability in the Crown Prosecution Service?
 Mr. David Heath  (Somerton and Frome) : It is a pleasure to speak on this important Bill and to welcome whole-heartedly its speedy introduction by the Government. I hope that it makes fast progress through the House, because it is an historic Bill and will achieve a result that we have desired for a long time. It is surprising that, after the sound and fury of the preceding debate, in which many Conservative Members felt prompted to participate, the Opposition Benches are much emptier for proceedings on this Bill, which is of much more significance than the privileges of lawyers. 462
 Mr. David Heath : I hope that the hon. Gentleman is not equating computer simulation with sub-critical testing, because they are not identical. I would certainly differentiate between them. Britain should be engaged in developing the one; the other is unhelpful to the process. I had certainly hoped not to seem churlish about the Government in anything I said and I very much welcome the views that the Minister has expressed.
 Mr. Heath : The hon. Gentleman makes precisely the point that I was seeking to make. 463
 Mr. Heath : I am aware of that, but it is under the control of the United States. Does Britain have the technology to provide a British alternative to testing and simulation in this country so that we do not have to subscribe to an American hegemony? How else are we to know whether the warheads on the British deterrent are safe and functional? That is a matter of importance if Britain is to have confidence in the process.
 Mr. Ruffley : Clearly, some offices of state require a specialist knowledge for the discharge of their functions. For example, the Home Secretary requires a knowledge of the law and we have seen a long succession of Home Secretaries who have been lawyers of one type or another. That is because solicitors and barristers understand the nature of the work of a Home Secretary. Is not what is true of the Home Office also true of the Lord Chancellor's Department?
 Mr. Ruffley : Would my hon. Friend care to elaborate on the ridiculous agism involved in qualifying to be a magistrate? Is not the agism that is so apparent in the Bill also apparent in the structure of the magistrates court system? Does he share my experience of many constituents who wish to become magistrates being told that, due to their age, they cannot contribute to work on the Bench?
 Mr. David Ruffley  (Bury St. Edmunds) : The Minister was surely right to say that the permanent secretary to the Lord Chancellor's Department was an important post, but he was surely wrong to give the impression that the change in the Bill was merely technical. It is a change in an important matter of principle. "is no longer appropriate to what over the years has become a major Department of State with a large budget and staff and a wide range of responsibilities."
 Mr. Ruffley : My hon. Friend makes a good point, and we need answers from the Minister.
 Mr. Ruffley : My hon. Friend makes a good point. Perhaps Baroness Symons would like to make her views known, assuming that the Minister without Portfolio will let her. I understand from the Library that the Law Society was also not consulted. We are entitled to ask that there should be consultation on legislation with parties that have a legitimate interest. 431
 Mr. Tredinnick : Does the Minister accept that an important element in nutrition can be vitamin supplements? Is he aware of the dismay among many alternative and complementary medical practitioners and nutritionists about the ban on over-10 mg vitamin B6? Does he accept that, across the industry, most people believe that 100 mg is perfectly safe? Is not the advice that the hon. Gentleman has accepted fundamentally flawed, having been based on a 10-year-old survey largely
 386
 Mr. David Winnick  (Walsall, North) : Will my right hon. Friend give further consideration to providing time for a debate on the Child Support Agency, bearing in mind two cases in my surgery last week? In the first case, a father has been asked to pay an exorbitant and impractical sum that he clearly cannot afford; in the second, a mother informs me that all her efforts to get maintenance for her child have been to no avail, despite the intervention of the CSA. Is not that an illustration, on both sides, of the CSA simply not working? It is causing tremendous difficulties, despite having been in existence for several years.
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : In response to the question from the hon. Member for Solihull (Mr. Taylor) about interests, I think that the Tories have got a cheek to be talking about people with interests, when 90 or 100 out of 164 of them have got three and four moonlighting jobs. If we are to have a debate, let us have one about that. On the more important question, because they are a trivial lot, I heard my right hon. Friend refer to the Child Support Agency as being in an appalling mess. That is an interesting phrase from a Minister. I know that a review is taking place and we all know that there are problems, that it has been in operation for five years and that at the beginning it was argued that it would provide benefits for women in particular. We all now know that as many women as men object to the Child Support Act 1995. Can we have an assurance that, perhaps, the idea of scrapping that Act is on the cards?
 Mr. Desmond Swayne  (New Forest, West) : May we have an emergency debate on agriculture, so that the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food can come to the House and explain the outrageous remarks that he made on Tuesday, when he accused the farming community of being both lazy and cheats?
 6. Mr. Swayne : What representations he has received from breeders of traditional native breeds of cattle with slow rates of growth. [12614]
 Mr. Swayne : Is the Minister aware that ecologists agree that the best way to maintain the unique character of the New Forest is to have it grazed by suckler cows? Is he also aware that, because of the quality of the ground, such beasts will be in their third year before they can be sold as store? Will he therefore distance himself from the disgraceful remarks made by the Minister of Agriculture on Tuesday when he accused farmers of cheating on the schemes for compensation for BSE?
 Mr. Grieve : In the first question to the Attorney-General, the suggestion was made that past Governments had been dilatory in prosecuting in racial hatred cases. Will the right hon. and learned Gentleman confirm that decisions on whether to prosecute are for the Crown Prosecution Service—ultimately, they are matters for the Attorney-General, but they are usually taken by the CPS—and involve no political input?
 Mr. Grieve : Has not the debate revealed the Government's lack of scrutiny of the measure?
 Mr. Grieve ; I am grateful to my hon. Friend, and I agree. I have no comment as to the capacity or otherwise of any individual to fulfil the responsibilities of the office. I would not wish to do so. I reiterate, however, that simply to introduce such legislation because of a one-off difficulty without considering the totality of the picture is a mistake. 427
 Mr. Dominic Grieve  (Beaconsfield) : When I first found out that the Bill was being brought before the House, my concern was that we had had no notice. I appreciate the need for urgency, which was mentioned by the Parliamentary Secretary, but the Bill involves a substantial change to an important appointment which has been notified in only one press notice from the Lord Chancellor's Department dated 29 October 1997—the same day that the Bill was published. My inquiries into the Bill's background, beyond what is covered by the press release from the Department, show that no consultation has taken place with any of the legal bodies, such as the Law Society, or with the union for senior civil servants. In effect, the Bill has no history, and no ministerial statement preceded it. Those facts raise concerns about the motives behind the Bill. 424 "A person shall not be qualified for appointment to any office in the Supreme Court listed in column I of any Part of Schedule 2 unless he is a person of any description specified in relation to that office in column 2 of that Part." [Laughter.]
 Mr. Grieve : I agree entirely, and that is why this is a proper subject for a full debate. 426
 Mr. Dominic Grieve  (Beaconsfield) : Should not the Government and the Minister be considering whether to raise the upper age limit? We know that we have an aging population and, as time goes by, it will become increasingly difficult—unless people are prepared to work to a later age—for the working population to sustain those who are not working. The proposal is a retrograde step. I would much rather the Government said that they were raising the retirement age for all permanent secretaries.
 Mr. Grieve : I want to understand fully the hon. Gentleman's position. The 1990 amendment to the
 434
 Mr. Grieve : I did not pick that point up.
 Mr. Grieve : One or two points arise out of the way in which the debate has been conducted. One of the reasons
 454
 Mr. Grieve : I want to pick up a point that arose earlier. The Minister suggested dismissively that because in 1990 there had been an alteration to the previous requirement that the permanent secretary be a lawyer, the arguments being advanced by Opposition Members about the likely changes that the present proposals would make to whether the permanent secretary was a lawyer were irrelevant.
 Mr. Grieve : The Minister is excelling himself in the courtesy he extends to Conservative Members. The matter clearly requires even more prolonged discussion. 450
 Mr. O'Hara : The over-30-months scheme is one of the measures that has contributed greatly to raising confidence in British beef, but it has many faults. Will the Minister conduct an investigation into the scheme's workings, with particular reference to geographical distribution of abattoirs in the scheme? Apart from the commercial implications of uneven and inequitable distribution of abattoirs, there is an animal welfare consideration. Cattle—particularly casualty cattle—are having to travel unnecessarily long distances to slaughter.
10.  Mr. O'Hara : What steps he is taking to improve confidence in British beef. [12619]
 Mr. Edward Leigh  (Gainsborough) : As a former member of the Greater London council, may I ask the right hon. Lady whether she agrees with me that the electors of London are capable of differentiating between a Greater London authority and a mayor, and should be allowed to vote for one, but not necessarily for the other? While she is on her feet, will she confirm that current Members of Parliament who happen to be former leaders of the GLC will be allowed to stand for the position of mayor of London?
 Mr. Morley : At the Fisheries Council last week, I made it clear that, under the United Kingdom presidency, the British Government will progress with proposals which have been lying on the table since 1992 to phase out high seas drift nets in EU waters, especially because of the impact on dolphins and non-target species. I also said then that we realised that this would have an impact on those fishermen who are involved in that fishery, and of course their interests and needs will be taken into consideration. I have already received representations from Mike Townsend of the National Federation of Fishermen's Organisations, who has argued the interests of his members very strongly.
 Mr. Morley : The hon. Lady is right to say that the issue must be approached on a Europe-wide basis; otherwise our producers would be undermined without welfare gain in relation to the eggs on shop shelves. Retailers such as Marks and Spencer have announced that they will no longer stock any eggs except those from free range systems. Undoubtedly consumer demand and quality assurance schemes from retailers are already driving change in that area.
 Mr. Morley : The Conservative Government put forward totally bogus proposals to deal with quota
 384
 Mr. Morley : The hon. Member makes a serious point about the pressures on the inshore fishing industry, and Ministers are committed to supporting that sector of the industry. I can give the hon. Gentleman an assurance that, in the discussions that, as he is aware, are taking place on a change towards fixed quota allocation the Government will ensure that the needs of the inshore industry are protected and recognised by continued underpinning of quota and, in relation to directive EC 2141/70, by support for the inshore industry through schemes such as PESCA and harbour grants. The industries in that area are eligible for such schemes. They can make an application, and of course we shall treat each application on its merits as part of our support for the fishing industry.
 Mr. Morley : I have received many recent representations on the common fisheries policy.
 The Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mr. Elliot Morley) : The welfare of laying hens is a matter of concern which needs to be resolved at EU level. This is why we are pressing the Commission to bring forward proposals to amend the current controls. We expect these amendments to recognise the need to plan the long-term phasing out of the conventional battery system.
 Mr. Morley : The Government have welcomed the report by the Farm Animal Welfare Council on laying hens. We are also commissioning research into supporting alternative systems and dealing with the welfare problems of each system. My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State will address the issue during the UK presidency to seek improvements to battery systems in the short term.
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : May we please have an early debate on the Government's programme for convergence of our economy with those of our European partners, so that we can move as swiftly as the Government want towards a European currency? Such a debate would give the Chancellor the opportunity to explain to the House how today's increase in interest rates contributes to that convergence process.
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I apologise to the Minister for intervening at this stage, but he used the phrase "rapid progress" a moment ago. I wonder whether he will explain quite what lies behind that phrase. Does it mean that there will be any deviation from the normal process of scrutiny of legislation by the House, or will the process take place in the normal way?
 Mr. Forth : Is my right hon. and learned Friend surprised that the Minister did not dwell on that point, if only to justify the fact that he wishes to make an arbitrary rule, forcing the permanent secretary to retire prematurely and when at the peak of his powers—a rule that he has not even sought to justify—but that he is apparently quite satisfied for a Lord Chancellor to continue indefinitely after that arbitrary age limit?
 Mr. Forth : I hope that my right hon. and learned Friend will elaborate on his remarks. I was worried when I heard the Minister say that the Lord Chancellor's Department is just the same as any other Department of State and that we should therefore treat the permanent secretary in just the same way in terms of more open recruitment and so on.
 Mr. Forth : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I seek your guidance. It has been suggested that the Minister may seek to deal with further stages of the Bill today. It would help us if we knew before he resumes his seat, and before you ask the House for its view on Second Reading, how the Minister proposes to deal with this matter procedurally, and whether he is prepared to accept the reasonable amendments that my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for North-East Bedfordshire (Sir N. Lyell) seeks to make to the Bill. I hope that you agree, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that that would help the House.
 Mr. Forth rose
 Mr. Forth : The House is debating whether this matter should immediately be considered in Committee, and anyone who was in the Chamber during the Second Reading debate—which virtually no Labour Member attended—would realise immediately that the problem that confronts the House is the Minister's persistent refusal to give proper answers to the questions asked by Opposition Members during the debate. 439
 Mr. Forth : My hon. Friend is right, and he reminds me that that was yet another argument that received, as far as I recall, no response from the Minister. I should have thought that, as a courtesy to the House, he might have explained why he and his colleagues in the Government had decided to table discussion of the Bill on a Thursday evening, to slip it through—probably while no one was noticing—and then to dust it off and send it to the other place.
 Mr. Forth : I hope that my hon. Friend will catch your eye, Mr. Deputy Speaker, so that he can elaborate on his inside knowledge of the Lord Chancellor's Department. We will want to take his words into account when we decide how to vote on the Bill.
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : In considering the matter before us I looked at the proceedings of the Bill that became the Supreme Court Act 1981—the original Bill. It immediately caught my eye that the then Attorney-General, Sir Michael Havers, said:
 "with the exception of the right hon. and learned Member for Warley, West (Mr. Archer), whom I welcome, the Opposition Benches are deserted." "We all accept that there are certain tasks that should be carried out by those who are qualified by the nature of their training and experience … it would be unfortunate if, in our anxiety to avoid restrictive practices, we overlooked the qualifications and experience that are necessary for a particular job."—[ Official Report 422
 Mr. Forth : My hon. Friend the Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Ruffley) is right. Do we want to lump the Lord Chancellor's Department in with the department for youth, sport and ballet dancing, or whatever it is called these days? There is no need for restrictions on appointments in the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, but we are all agreed—unless the Parliamentary Secretary dissents—that the Lord Chancellor's Department has special characteristics that justify the
 423
 Mr. Forth : The debate has covered substance and style. It is right that the substance of the Bill should be considered. I say that it should be, but that requires the participation not just of the Opposition, carrying out their duty to scrutinise proposals, but of the Government, personified in this case by the Minister. I regret that he has failed to satisfy us on the key issues that we have raised time and again. He has given scant regard to our arguments of substance about the nature of the position of permanent secretary in the Lord Chancellor's Department, the role of that individual and the qualifications required. He has failed to persuade us that the matter is as simple as he has argued, however brief, peremptory and superficial those arguments were. 453 "Supreme Court (Offices) Bill: Second Reading Remaining stages may also be taken."
 Mr. Hoon : I dealt with the right hon. Gentleman's reflections on the vigorous opposition that he claimed the
 435
 Mr. Hoon : As the right hon. and learned Gentleman said, the formal retirement age is to change, but he was anxious that we should recognise the skills and qualities of someone who might attain the age of 60 but who still has a considerable contribution to make to the country. I am clarifying for the right hon. and learned Gentleman the position of the permanent secretary in the Lord Chancellor's Department and, indeed, that of any other permanent secretary. In the circumstances that we are debating, it will be possible, by arrangement, for a person to continue in post.
 Mr. Hoon : The hon. Gentleman made two points. First, the Government remain committed to an independent civil service. The selection process will be the same as for other permanent secretaries. Secondly, we shall consider the Middleton recommendation for a single Ministry of justice. We are already considering Sir Peter Middleton's recommendations, but I have to say that the Government have no present plans to implement the particular recommendation to which the hon. Gentleman referred. 452
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful to all hon. Members who have contributed to a lively debate. The right hon. Member for Bromley and Chislehurst (Mr. Forth) commented on the importance of style. He described the unhappy transformation that he appears to have endured—from powerful Minister and Privy Councillor to, as he rather sadly described it, humble out-of-touch Opposition Member. It may be a measure of the Conservative party's decline that such Conservative Members are here to deal with the matter at length.
 Mr. Hoon : I have been asked to consider the arguments carefully. I hope that hon. Members agree that I set out carefully at the beginning of Second Reading why it was necessary for the Government to introduce the Bill at this stage. If there were any doubts about the need to change the present restrictions, the hon. Member for Solihull (Mr. Taylor) put them very well. He said that the position of permanent secretary in the Lord Chancellor's Department was an important political, mainstream Government role. He outlined the responsibility that anyone who holds such a position should have. 451
 Mr. Hoon : Bogus.
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful to the right hon. and learned Gentleman for giving way again. Does he accept that there is nothing in the Bill to prevent any lawyer from the Government legal service—or, indeed, any lawyer from any other position—from applying for the job and being considered alongside others who apply?
 Mr. Hoon : I said on Second Reading that there is a senior legal adviser who works directly to the permanent secretary. I hope that the right hon. and learned Gentleman will find that such a figure, who is responsible for giving legal advice, is a sufficient satisfaction of his concerns.
 Mr. Hoon : Since we are proceeding in this manner, I hope that the right hon. and learned Gentleman will accept that, for a considerable time, it has not been the responsibility of the permanent secretary in the Lord Chancellor's Department to give legal advice to the Lord Chancellor. That advice is given by a specialist unit within the Department, which is there to give such advice. As I explained at some length earlier, the permanent secretary is no longer required to give advice to the Lord Chancellor.
 Mr. Hoon : On the contrary: it has revealed Opposition Members' failure to do their homework. The single point that has been repeated throughout the debate is that the Bill removes the important qualification that the permanent secretary should be legally qualified.
 Mr. Hoon : The requirement has been in place for a considerable time. However, if it is so vital that the permanent secretary should be legally qualified, why did the previous Conservative Government, in which the right hon. and learned Member held such a distinguished position, change the rules to allow, for the first time, the office to be occupied by someone who was not a lawyer? Conservative Members have referred many times to the importance of that position being occupied by a lawyer, but it was their Government who changed that. That is why it is remarkable that Conservative Members have not done their homework as thoroughly as they might have before spending so much time on this issue. 432
 Mr. Hoon : The debate has been characterised by what can only be described as a gaggle of lawyers articulating some concern for other lawyers' vested interest in securing particular positions. That was described as vigorous opposition. Perhaps the Government should be grateful, because if that is vigorous opposition, they may not have much to worry about. If Opposition Members have to spend such a disproportionate amount of time on this modest measure, they may not have time for other matters, so at least I am assisting the Government's programme by occupying hon. Members who might have been usefully employed elsewhere.
 Mr. Hoon : We are debating whether this matter should proceed immediately into Committee. We have heard a great deal of lyrical objection, especially from the right hon. Member for Bromley and Chislehurst (Mr. Forth), who I think will become celebrated, as a result of his contribution to the Second Reading debate, as the author of the phrase, the debate that we have had today indicates that we have a vigorous Opposition. Unfortunately, the vigorous Opposition on that occasion only amounted to the five Members who passed through the No Lobby, so the official Opposition managed to get fewer Members through the No Lobby than the number who spoke on Second Reading. Perhaps Conservative Members were so exhausted by the process of the Second Reading debate that they could not summon the vigour to walk through the No Lobby.
 Mr. Hoon : I was not in any way casting any doubt on the right hon. and learned Gentleman's integrity; I was simply reflecting on the suggestion of the right hon. Member for Bromley and Chislehurst (Mr. Forth) that he was somehow a representative of some new, vigorous Opposition. Had he been as vigorous as he claimed, he might well have been able to check how long the proposal had been on the Order Paper—and, indeed, why his colleagues in the Opposition Whips Office had not sought to suggest, for example, in the light of today's debate, that the matter should be referred to a Committee.
 Mr. Hoon : I was simply entering into the spirit of things, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I apologise if any Conservative Members have been offended by the robust nature of my remarks.
 Mr. Hoon : No, I will not give way.
 Mr. Hoon : I distinctly heard the sound of ground changing: that was not the thrust of the hon. Gentleman's earlier remarks. Having been reminded of the issues we are dealing with, he is now shifting his argument significantly. If he will forgive me, as he could not get it right the first time, I shall not pay any attention to his second, C-minus effort.
 Mr. Hoon : This modest, technical change to the rules is important, because it will allow us to appoint the permanent secretary in the Lord Chancellor's Department from among people with suitable qualifications and background who are presently eligible to be considered for the post of permanent secretary in any other Department. We should be able to choose someone with the requisite qualifications for leadership and management of a large public or private sector organisation. They should be familiar with, and ideally have direct experience of, the processes of government, and have proven experience of strategic policy development and implementation.
 Mr. Hoon : The rules are flexible and can be agreed with the person concerned in the light of the circumstances to which Conservatives Members referred. If someone in that position still fulfils a valuable role in the Department, that person can, by agreement, be allowed to stay on after 60. All this modest proposal will do is put the Lord Chancellor's Department on the same footing as any other Department.
 Mr. Hoon : I referred to senior civil servants. Very few senior civil servants currently possess the requisite qualifications. Some lawyers have those qualifications, and anyone who has worked in the Department for the requisite period is similarly qualified—the hon. Gentleman overlooked that aspect, but I shall pass over that. As Conservative Members have emphasised often enough during the debate, someone with suitable seniority and experience will necessarily have had long experience of government. We would look to a very senior figure when considering an appointment to this position. Very few senior figures in Whitehall at present are suitably qualified.
 Mr. Hoon : No.
 Mr. Hoon : No, I did not.
 Mr. Hoon : Few senior civil servants with the requisite experience are qualified under the existing statutory rules. That is the problem which the Department faces in securing the appointment of someone who has the various qualifications that Conservative Members have set out.
 Mr. Hoon indicated assent.
 Mr. Hoon : There is no suggestion in the Bill that lawyers will be prevented from applying for the position or prevented from being appointed. The right hon. Gentleman has a very distinguished legal background. Surely he is not suggesting that lawyers should be afraid of competition from those who are not lawyers?
 Mr. Hoon : I am going to use that argument, because it is important to have consistency across Whitehall. The right hon. and learned Gentleman knows full well from his previous experience that all permanent secretaries, apart from the one that we are debating, retire at 60. Furthermore, I had always assumed that the distinguished profession of lawyer required adherence to precedent.
 Mr. Hoon : It is very soon.
 The Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department (Mr. Geoffrey Hoon) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time.
 Mr. Hoon : Obviously, procedure is a matter for the House to decide, but in due course I shall invite the House, if it considers it appropriate, to deal with all stages of the Bill. As I say, that is clearly a matter for the House.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful, Madam Speaker. 408
 Mr. Hoon : We are certainly proposing that the present restrictions should be eliminated. They severely limit the availability of candidates. 409
 Mr. Hoon : The answers to the hon. Member's questions are yes and no. It is anticipated that the
 410
 Mr. Hoon : To meet the timetable that I have set out, the Bill must make rapid progress, and it is for that reason that I ask the House to give it a fair wind, and allow it, if appropriate, not only to be read a second time but to pass through its remaining stages in the House today, so that it may be considered in another place with the necessary dispatch.
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : Will the Minister confirm that public health safety will be the primary object of the new food safety organisation, and that it will have its primary remit in the best scientific evidence that is available at the time?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department (Mr. George Howarth) : I join my hon. Friends in congratulating the hon. Member for Twickenham (Dr. Cable) on initiating this debate on the London fire service. At the risk of damaging his reputation, I also congratulate him on the measured and thoughtful way in which he presented the subject. He alluded to the fact that his style is in sharp contrast to that of his predecessor. He was perhaps not so amusing as his predecessor, but he was thoughtful nevertheless. 475 "one of the most consistently high-performing services in local government. Most brigades achieved national standards for at least nine out of ten fire calls during all three years from 1993–94 to 1995–96, with the poorest performances significantly improving over this period. These improvements were achieved with increases in spending no higher than the level of inflation." "the services for their area of such a fire brigade and such equipment as may he necessary to meet efficiently all normal requirements." 476 477 478 479 480
 Mr. Bermingham : Does the Attorney-General agree that accountability in the Crown Prosecution Service—in which I declare a family interest—is very much dependent on the quality of the people employed in it? The quality is undoubtedly very high. If we are to have consistency between one area and another, we must obviously have a central and not a local direction.
 Mr. Gerald Bermingham  (St. Helens, South) : Will the Leader of the House find time between now and Christmas to cause a debate to be held on Government computers, so that we could cause the computers that serve the Department of Social Security and the Inland Revenue to talk to each otherso that we might know who is in the black economy and who is not-and perhaps at the same —time consider the quality of the Department of Trade and Industry computer, which appears to be giving the wrong answers at present?
 Mr. Gerald Bermingham  (St. Helens, South) : I hope that I understand the Minister correctly. He is saying that, because the Lord Chancellor's Department now controls a budget of £2 billion or more, it wants the widest possible choice in the appointment of a permanent secretary and the ability to go outside the civil service and the law, perhaps into industry and other such places, to get the most efficient and able man or woman for the job.
 Mr. Dawson : Is my hon. Friend aware of the E. coli outbreak in my constituency of Lancaster and Wyre? The victims have fortunately recovered, and the firm involved has been completely exonerated and has operated in a very responsible manner. It seems that the problem related to the use of unpasteurised milk. Will my hon. Friend give some consideration to future policy regarding the use of unpasteurised milk in cheese-making?
 Mr. Malins : My right hon. Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst (Mr. Forth) is right; the Minister gave no help on Second Reading. He was utterly dismissive of many of our arguments. Specifically, we repeatedly asked what the nature of the consultation was and whether presiding judges were consulted. Were the Crown court circuit judges, the Bar Council or the Law Society consulted? Who was consulted? We received no answer.
 Mr. Malins : My hon. Friend refers to consultation. Has there been any consultation with the judiciary,
 430
 Mr. Malins : My hon. Friend is right to say that we have an aging population; people are living longer. Is not the fact that a growing proportion of the population will be in their sixties, seventies or, indeed, eighties an argument for enabling people to carry on, with just a degree of flexibility, rather than stopping them in their absolute prime at the age of 60? I for one cannot understand why the Bill is so inflexible. 421
 Mr. Malins : My hon. Friend raises an important point. He is absolutely right. I was coming to the provision concerning the age limit of 60. It is as though that is a magic figure. Yes, the provision is an example of agism, which is reflected, in a sense, throughout the system. Many of us have encountered constituents who cannot become magistrates due to their age, although they would contribute immensely to the general well-being of the magistrates court system and the administration of justice. That is wrong. When will people realise that a few grey hairs can be quite important?
 Mr. Humfrey Malins  (Woking) : I declare an interest in that, over the years, I have sat as an acting metropolitan stipendiary magistrate and I now sit occasionally—I might like to sit rather more often—as a recorder of the Crown court. Laughter. "I and my predecessors have been well served by a distinguished line of Permanent Secretaries, who have ably managed the organisation". 419
 Mr. Malins : To be serious, though, there is merit in the point. There is no difficulty in involving people over the age of 60 in the posts. Does any hon. Member think that, suddenly, at the age of 60, people lose their ability? Many distinguished lawyers have reached their peak not in their forties or fifties, but in their sixties or even later. Many examples are known to us of outstanding men and women who contributed greatly to the law when they were well over 60. I cannot see a justification for imposing a strict age limit of 60 bearing in mind the men and women who have served as permanent secretary over the past 100 years. Can the Minister tell us how many of them served with great distinction well beyond the age of 60?
 Mr. Malins : My hon. Friend says hear, hear; there are no grey hairs on him. For my right hon. Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst (Mr. Forth) it is another matter.
 Mr. Ieuan Wyn Jones : The Minister referred to the priority that he is giving to reform of the common agricultural policy. Will he enlighten us on the ways in which that reform could take place? Does he acknowledge that one way would be to reduce headage payments and to spend more money on agri-environmental schemes? Are the Government of the view that that is one way forward?
 The Minister of State, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mr. Jeff Rooker) : Our clear priority is to put food safety first. We are looking towards the creation of an independent Food Standards Agency, which was a clear manifesto commitment, and we shall publish a White Paper very soon.
 Mr. Rooker : Yes, I am aware of the recent outbreak in my hon. Friend's constituency. The outbreak control team met this morning. It has carried out a risk assessment of the factory and its products and has decided that there is no justification for extending the action taken in respect of unpasteurised milk cheese to other cheeses produced by that factory. Officials from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and from the Department of Health left for Lancashire this morning and should arrive there by early afternoon, although they are not part of the outbreak control team. I am moving to bring English policy on the drinking of raw, unpasteurised milk into line with that which has been in place in Scotland for many years, but
I have no plans to do that in respect of cheese.
 Mr. Rooker : The hon. Lady raises an important point which was not dealt with by the Ministry at yesterday's meeting of the Committee. Nevertheless, I am aware of the general issues that she rightly raises and I will write to her on the detailed points.
 Mr. Rooker : The answer to both questions is yes.
 Mr. Rooker : The World Trade Organisation rules allow Governments to choose the appropriate level of
 381
 Mr. Rooker : I will attempt to address the hon. Gentleman's question of substance, because there is a genuine problem for breeders of native breeds of cattle with slow rates of growth such as Galloway, Welsh black and Highland. The beef assurance scheme was fixed up so that such cattle can come to market at between 30 and 42 months. I regret that there are only 73 registered members of that scheme, so it has not been a success. That does not meet the issues raised in the hon. Gentleman's supplementary question, but it meets those raised in his original question of substance.
 Mr. Rooker : I have received a small number of representations from breeders of such animals.
 Mr. Rooker : I do not know how many of the 73 herds in the scheme are in Scotland, but my hon. Friend's point is correct. One of the reasons for the beef assurance scheme was to ensure that farmers with special breeds did not suffer and that the nation did not suffer by losing those breeds.
 Mr. Rooker : The hon. Gentleman seems to be under the illusion that we are not living in a market economy.
 Mr. Rooker : The Department assesses regional variations in the diet of the British population using the continuous national food survey and, with the Department of Health, the national diet and nutrition survey programme.
 Mr. Rooker : My hon. Friend is right to say that the consumption of certain foods varies on a regional basis. More up-to-date figures will be published on 10 November in the next national food survey. A special analysis of regional data is contained in that report.
 Mr. Rooker : The question asked for a statement.
 Mr. Rooker : The hon. Gentleman raises a legitimate point, but I invite him to re-read the further information that he has received—as, indeed, has every hon. Member. The advice was not taken on the basis of one scientific paper—more than 100 have been assessed.
 Mr. Rooker : The searches to identify any unrecognised dumping of radioactive waste at sea have now been completed, apart from those at the Ministry of Defence, where they are unlikely to be completed this year, I regret. Only one further instance of such dumping has been identified in addition to those I announced in July this year. This concerns the disposal of radioactive miss-distance indicators by the Royal Air Force in the Holyhead deep in 1974.
 Mr. Rooker : The matter will be dealt with openly, and the report published.
 Mr. Rooker : I am aware of that. One reason why that contamination was discovered was the constant surveillance of our seashore for contaminants. It is a crucial and continuing process. Action will be taken when contaminants are found.
 Mr. Cousins : Does the Minister agree that the consumption of fruit, vegetables and salad is lower in the northern region of England than in other parts of England? Does he agree that that is a matter not just of individual choice but of social exclusion from good diet because people find themselves on low incomes, with no cars and facing high-cost food? Will he assure the House that the Food Standards Agency will do some proactive work and contribute to the Government's policy on social exclusion so that diet is also considered when we talk about social exclusion?
7.  Mr. Cousins : What assessment he has made of variations in diet and nutrition between the regions of England; and what role the Food Standards Agency will have to investigate them. [12616]
 Mr. Jim Fitzpatrick  (Poplar and Canning Town) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Twickenham (Dr. Cable) on securing time for this important debate. I am grateful to him and to my hon. Friend the Minister for allowing me the opportunity to contribute. 471 "I hope that we might get an assurance from the Government that, when the standard spending assessments are announced in the next couple of weeks, they will give some guarantee on disregards in the SSAs with regard to the rising costs of pensions within the fire and civil defence authorities. Unless that is done, there is a real prospect that we face dramatic cuts in the cover provided by the fire and civil defence authority in the next financial year.—[ Official Report 472
 Mr. Paice : Does the Minister accept that the three breeds that he just cited are all hill breeds? Is it not absolute drivel for the Minister to suggest that the problems of hill farming are related purely to the beef ban? Does he not know or even care that the prices of fat cattle, store cattle and lambs are now much lower than they were 12 months ago, which was well after the ban was introduced? Does he not know that the prices of store
 385
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : As a number of Members experienced long delays before receiving answers to their letters to Department of Trade and Industry Ministers when the House was not sitting, will the Leader of the House invite the President of the Board of Trade to make a statement to the House next week, explaining exactly when she and her ministerial colleagues were and were not in the Department during the summer recess?
 Mr. John Burnett  (Torridge and West Devon) : We welcome the Bill because it will sweep away an anachronism and open up the post of permanent secretary to the Lord Chancellor to a far wider field of candidates. I say that notwithstanding the points made by the right hon. and learned Member for North-East Bedfordshire (Sir N. Lye11), who enjoys an enviable reputation in this House and elsewhere. 418 "A single Government Department should be responsible for all aspects of civil justice".
 Mr. Burnett : The Government have announced their intention to provide extra penalties for a guilty party when racism is proved as a motivation for a crime. In order that the appropriate evidence may be gathered, what training resources and practice guidelines will be given to the police to secure a tangible result?
 Mr. Burnett : For the reasons that I have already given on Second Reading, we support the Bill. Nevertheless, I hope that the Minister will be able to respond to the two points that I made in that debate. For his recollection, I will repeat them, but in precis form.
 Mr. Burnett : Torridge and West Devon.
 Mr. Burnett : The hon. Gentleman may have been confused by the fact that the Minister called me the Member for Bolton, West and Torridge.
 Mr. Greenway : The right hon. and learned Gentleman has just confirmed the central point about which I wanted to ask him. Will he therefore assure the House that, in whatever changes his Government decide to implement to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the CPS, its independence from local pressures will remain the central point of its operations?
 Mr. Greenway : Does the Minister agree that the establishment of the Meat Hygiene Service in York—in conjunction with the Central Science Laboratory at Sand Hutton in my constituency—has been an outstanding success? Will he take this opportunity to say that the jobs and prospects of staff at both establishments will be protected when he creates his Food Standards Agency?
 Mr. John M. Taylor  (Solihull) : I have ever suffered from the debilitating weakness of being able to see both sides of an argument, something that never troubled the last Prime Minister but two. On the one hand, in dealing with judges and the Bar, not least silks and the Law Society, one is dealing, dare I say, with a client group that can occasionally show a slight tendency to believe that no one but one of its own understands its business. On the other hand, it can in theory at least be a distortion to career progress in the Lord Chancellor's Department for senior civil servants in the Department to know that some of them could become permanent secretary and some, by statute no less, could never do so. 428
 Mr. Taylor : Yes, one might as well have a vote on an aircraft to choose which passenger should be the pilot. 429
 Mrs. Taylor : I would not comment on the holidays that Conservative Members—or, indeed, hon. Members in any party—have had, but I know that Ministers worked extremely hard throughout the recess. That is why the Government are in such a strong position now. I shall not comment on the specific point raised by the hon. Gentleman, not least because it was raised with you on Tuesday, Madam Speaker.
 Mrs. Taylor : I do not know whether the hon. Gentleman was here for MAFF questions, but I do not think that there are any outstanding problems. Certainly, emergency debates are not a matter for me.
 Mr. John M. Taylor  (Solihull) : Will the Minister assist me with this point, which I may have missed in his explanation? Is he saying that, if the legislation that he now proposes becomes law, the permanent secretary to the Lord Chancellor's Department will continue to be Clerk to the Crown in Chancery; and if so, does not that second office have a requirement that its holder be a lawyer?
 Mr. Taylor : Thank you.
 Mrs. Taylor : The Chancellor dealt more than adequately with all those questions in his recent statement. If the right hon. Gentleman wants to debate the subject, I am sure that many in his own party would be willing to oblige.
 Mrs. Taylor : I understand my hon. Friend's long-term interest in the legislation. I do not think that it will be possible to introduce the Bill in draft form, but Ministers in the Department intend to introduce a White Paper.
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman makes a strong case. I do not know the details of the planning application to which he refers, but any procedures followed were those drawn up by the previous Conservative Government.
 Mrs. Taylor : My hon. Friend raises a problem which will be of concern to many. The evidence presented today on the dangers of Ecstasy reinforces some of the concerns that have been mentioned in the past. We should welcome any contribution to the body of scientific knowledge on the dangers of such drugs. In recent years, about 60 deaths in the UK have been due specifically to Ecstasy. The only message that we can send out is that young people should not be taking such drugs.
 Mrs. Taylor : No, it is a question not of scrapping the Child Support Agency, but of reviewing its workings. We had a debate just before the summer recess and my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Social Security said afterwards that she had found it extremely useful to hear directly the experiences of many colleagues in respect of the problems of the CSA. I hope that we can ensure that the agency works more effectively, but, as I said, the problems are very severe indeed. A great backlog of work has not been completed when it should have been and, although my right hon. Friend is trying to resolve the situation, it is difficult to see that it and the problems that are arising can be dealt with in the very near future. It will be a long haul to get the agency back on track.
 Mr. John M. Taylor  (Solihull) : Will the Leader of the House arrange a debate next week on the working of the Department of Trade and Industry, because it is a well-known fact that a number of Ministers there are disqualified from speaking on certain subjects due to conflicts of interest? May we know who is competent to do what—if any?
 Mrs. Taylor : I, too, have cases like those that my hon. Friend described—we all find that a significant proportion of our case work concerns CSA cases—so I have every sympathy with him. However, I am not sure that debating the problems will get us much further. Action is needed within the CSA to get its house in order.
 Mrs. Taylor : I do not think that there is a need for an early debate, because there is no such friction. The matter
 402
 Mrs. Taylor : I would not dream of suggesting who might or might stand for that position, but I am glad that the hon. Gentleman recognises that the legislation and the result of the referendum are likely to be successful.
 Mrs. Taylor : I am sure that hon. Members will join me in paying tribute to the pilot of the aircraft which was in such difficulties yesterday and which he managed to land safely. It is appalling to think of the tragedy that could have occurred. We should be grateful that he was able to exercise such skill on that occasion. 404
 Mrs. Taylor : I am not sure which Committees will be sitting at that time next Tuesday. I shall make inquiries along the lines suggested by my hon. Friend, because I know that all hon. Members consider it to be an important event and may wish to observe two minutes' silence in Committee, as they would if they were working in their offices.
 Mrs. Taylor : As I said earlier, there is no conflict between the Ministers involved, because our overall objective must be to improve inward investment in Britain as a whole. I am sure that there will be plenty of opportunities to explore those specific points when we debate the legislation to which the hon. Gentleman referred.
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman asked when he would be able to see the Bills. He has seen the White Papers, as have the people of Scotland and Wales. That is why they supported our proposals. The Bills are not ready yet, but a great deal of work has been done. I am happy to report that there has been good progress on the legislation, and it will be produced in due course.
 Mrs. Taylor : I am happy to clarify the situation and deal with the hon. Gentleman's point. When my hon. Friend became the Minister for Public Health she did exactly what was expected of her, which was to abide completely by the guidance which is laid down for Ministers. Her husband informed the Department of Health of his professional activities relating to formula one motor racing and, in order to avoid any possible conflict of interest and at his own suggestion, he resigned his position as a non-executive director of Benetton Formula Ltd.
 Mrs. Taylor : If the hon. Gentleman gives me details of the replies that are outstanding, I shall look into the matter.
 Mrs. Taylor : As I said, I cannot promise a debate, but the information that my hon. Friend has conveyed to the House reinforces the concern that many hon. Members have expressed today. The figures are extremely alarming, and I am aware of the significant concern in the House about the matter. The Secretary of State for Social Security shares that concern, and I will ensure that she understands the strength of feeling that has been expressed today. I am sure that she will be reinforced in her determination to tackle this problem.
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman is arguing against any ban, whereas some of his hon. Friends were almost arguing for a total ban. There seems to be some inconsistency. I do not think that there is any need for an early debate on that topic.
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : Can the Leader of the House make time next week for a debate on the European Union proposal to do away with duty-free allowances for travel between EU countries? Would it not be an excellent opportunity to put pressure on the Government, before the Luxembourg Council, to get the European Union to do something about that and to change its mind? Otherwise, will not the measure have an adverse affect on British carriers, particularly those operating out of Heathrow, which is the borough in which my constituency lies, and on many enterprises such as the British Airports Authority and others with duty-free shops that provide badly needed employment?
 Mr. Laurence Robertson  (Tewkesbury) : Will the Leader of the House make time available for a debate, or at least a statement, on the time that Ministers take to reply, or give full replies, to hon. Members' questions? I understand that Departments try to answer such letters within 15 working days, but I cannot be alone in having letters outstanding for, in one case, 55 working days and, in another, involving the Treasury, for 47 working days—and still no reply yet. I understand that Ministers receive many letters from hon. Members, but if we are to do our jobs properly, we need to respond to our constituents' concerns rather quicker than that.
 Mr. Martin Salter  (Reading, West) : After yesterday's crash landing at Heathrow, is my right hon. Friend aware of the mounting public concern about aircraft safety, particularly in the Thames valley, following three near misses during the past few months, including one above Reading? Will she allow parliamentary time for us to discuss this important issue and, in particular, the Civil Aviation Authority's hare-brained scheme to reduce the distance between aircraft approaching Heathrow from 3 miles to two and a half miles?
 Mr. Michael Fabricant  (Lichfield) : Will the Minister take this opportunity to praise the former Foreign Secretary, Malcolm Rifkind, who played such an important part in getting the treaty signed in 1996, as the Minister mentioned earlier?
 Mr. Michael Fabricant  (Lichfield) : Nobody who lived through the Cuban missile crisis could do anything other than welcome the Bill, and we hope that the comprehensive test ban treaty will soon be ratified. I recall when I was at school that an air-raid siren was placed on top of the building at the time of the Cuban crisis. There was a real fear among children in their early teens, as I was at the time. I hope that we never witness anything like that again. 464 "At the end of May 1996 the Conference chairman, Ambassador Ramaker of the Netherlands, proposed a solution based on a British idea." "would have to ratify before entry into force, but they would not be singled out as such."
 Mr. Fabricant : Is the hon. Gentleman aware that much of the software used by the United States for computer simulation was developed in the United Kingdom by UK engineers?
 Mr. Jack : That was a statement
 Mr. Jack : May I take the right hon. Gentleman back to the answer that he has just given, in which he dismissed
 379
 Mr. Jack : Will the Minister confirm that, due to the Prime Minister's failure in negotiating the Amsterdam treaty, that treaty contains no legal protection for British fishermen threatened as a result of quota hopping? Can he also confirm that what was negotiated in the form of an exchange of letters between Commission President Santer and the Prime Minister amounts in effect to nothing more than is already contained in category A licences as far as landings are concerned?
 Mr. Gapes : I am grateful for that reply. Does the Attorney-General share the widespread concern felt by people of all faiths and ethnic backgrounds about the dissemination of race-hate and anti-Semitic material, which is being widely distributed? Will he assure the House that the Government will do far more than their predecessors to act rigorously and with determination to take legal action against the producers of such material?
30.  Mr. Gapes : How many prosecutions his office has sanctioned for incitement to racial hatred; and how many it has decided not to pursue in each year since 1990. [12640]
 Mr. Mike Gapes  (Ilford, South) : May I draw my right hon. Friend's attention the "two minutes" campaign of the Royal British Legion, and ask her to consult the relevant authorities in the House on whether it would be possible for all Committees to observe two minutes' silence on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month?
 Mr. Hawkins : My hon. Friend is right to draw attention to some of the other concerns referred to in that article. I have no idea whether Mr. Berlins is right—perhaps the Minister will tell us when he winds up—but he says that the Bill has become known informally in the Lord Chancellor's Department as the Ian Burns Bill. I have no knowledge of Mr. Burns and I do not seek to comment in any way on the ability of a gentleman of whom I had never previously heard, but if Mr. Berlins is right—and I know him to be one of the best-informed newspaper legal correspondents—there could be ludicrous consequences. 417
 Mr. Nick Hawkins  (Surrey Heath) : I follow the comments of my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for North-East Bedfordshire (Sir N. Lyell) about agism. Many of us are concerned about the political correctness that is creeping into every aspect of the new Labour Government. Such political correctness is being severely questioned not just in the House, but throughout industry and in legal circles. It is wrong and contrary to common sense for a senior official—a permanent secretary—to be told that he has to retire at 60 when he will be dealing with crucial issues relating to the appointment of judges, who will sit to the age of 70. 416 The Guardian The Times The Guardian "Slipping quietly through Parliament is an extraordinary Bill, whose sole purpose is to make one Permanent Secretary to a Government Department equal to all other Permanent Secretaries." "So the Lord Chancellor's Department has finally fallen to egalitarianism."
 Mr. Hawkins : On the lack of consultation with the First Division Association, it should be noted that the former head of the FDA in the previous Parliament, Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean, is now a Minister in another place. One wonders what she thinks of her ministerial colleagues failing to consult her former trade union.
 Mr. Hawkins : Does my hon. Friend agree that one of the dangers of the proposal, introduced by the Minister with so little scrutiny, is that it may be part of the slippery slope to merging those three pillars of state? That accords with much that we used to hear from Labour Members in opposition—the hon. Member for Brent, South (Mr. Boateng) often used to argue this—about lay people with no legal qualifications becoming not only magistrates but judges.
 Mr. Hawkins : My hon. Friend refers to the lack of consultation, which tends to support the concern expressed in  The Guardian
 Mr. Nick Hawkins  (Surrey Heath) : Does my right hon. Friend agree that among the points that the Minister signally failed to answer was the point about the fact that the Bill was not introduced in another place? As several of my right hon. and hon. Friends have said, we would expect that to be the procedure in the case of legislation that directly reflects on the position of the Lord Chancellor. That is another matter that needs reflection while the House is considering whether it is prepared to have the Bill pushed through without proper debate, all in one day.
 Mr. Hawkins : I expressed some concerns about the Bill in the Second Reading debate. The longer debate on the Bill continues—both on Second Reading and in Committee—the more my concern increases. I paid generous compliments to the Minister in the earlier debate, but I may have overstated them. He has certainly failed to respond to the very legitimate concerns—particularly on the lack of consultation—raised by my hon. Friends and myself. 449
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : Can the Leader of the House arrange an early debate on the environment and planning procedure? I cannot believe that my constituency experience is unique. A cement manufacturer applied to the county council for permission for major quarrying work. The council hummed and hawed for more than a year, then passed the matter to the Minister for the Environment, so that either he could approve it or, if he did not want to do so, it would be approved after a five-week stay of execution. 403
 Mr. Paterson : As there is a variation in the incidence of tuberculosis in badgers in the different regions of Britain, can the Minister say whether the Government have any policy on that matter? Farms have been closed—
 Mr. Patrick McLoughlin  (West Derbyshire) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Will you confirm that, if a filibuster had been taking place, you would have ruled the speeches out of order? It is not right for a Minister Crown to describe speeches made by hon. Members as a filibuster, because that is not allowed in the Chamber.
 Mr. Nicholls : It is not going to be possible to restore confidence in British beef if there are no British beef producers left. Does the right hon. Gentleman not realise that his failure to match the previous Government's commitment to make a payment of £60 million—indeed, he intends to reduce it—has caused real fear and terror among hill farmers? Does he not understand that to sneer that hill farmers are one of the less efficient sectors of the British industry, as he did earlier in these exchanges, means that he is devastating a vital part of our agricultural community and, at the same time, making it abundantly clear that he has no idea of the role that hill farmers play, not only in British beef production as a whole but environmentally? Is it not about time that the right hon. Gentleman's deeds matched his rhetoric?
31.  Mr. Flynn : What plans he has to extend the period allowed for appeals against apparently lenient sentences. [12641]
 Mr. Paul Flynn  (Newport, West) : There will be a warm welcome for today's announcement on the reduction in the number of animals killed in laboratories in Britain, but there will be some disappointment that the total of 3 million animals killed every year will be reduced by a mere couple of hundred. Will my right hon. Friend arrange for a debate so that this complex matter can be discussed? Has she seen early-day motion 342?
 Mr. Flynn : The concerns of convicted murderers or other offenders obviously have to be taken into account,
 391
 Mr. Paul Tyler  (North Cornwall) : Is the right hon. Lady aware that we, at least, supported the previous policy on tobacco sponsorship of formula one, and we agree very much with the EU Social Affairs Commissioner who has said that the Government's decision is a disaster and a complete U-turn? We would welcome a statement. 399
 Mr. Peter Brooke  (Cities of London and Westminster) : Will the Leader of the House next week revisit her answer on Tuesday to my hon. Friend the Member for Daventry (Mr. Boswell) about the Finance Bill? I realise that it was an oral answer given in the heat of the moment, but she gave the impression that this year's treatment would become par for the course. That would cause alarm in the City of London.
 Mr. Peter L. Pike  (Burnley) : Can my right hon. Friend give us any information about when legislation for regional development agencies will be introduced, bearing in mind how important that is to the Government? Perhaps the Bill could be introduced in draft form, to allow people to consider it fully, given its implications and the various views that are held on it.
 Mr. Phil Hope  (Corby) : As a member of the Public Accounts Select Committee, may I ask my right hon. Friend to reconsider the need for an urgent debate on the appalling performance of the Child Support Agency? The report of the Comptroller and Auditor General reveals that 85 per cent. of outstanding balances were in error, and one in six of those were errors of more than £1,000. That has caused enormous misery and distress to families throughout the country. I believe that a debate on the Floor of the House would enable hon. Members who deal with these problems to contribute to the change process that is required. Is my right hon. Friend aware that the
 405
 Mr. Walter : The Commission's proposals for reform of the CAP are outlined in Agenda 2000, but does the Minister agree that they make little concession towards enlargement of the EU, that they are probably unacceptable to the World Trade Organisation and that the financial outcome will be that they cost the taxpayer more rather than less?
 Mr. Dalyell : My hon. Friend is completely right to say that it is a genuine problem. Will the Ministry take into account not only any romantic advantage of Highland or other special breeds but their value to the gene pool? Will the Ministry look at the issue from the point of view of long-term genetic advantage to the British cattle herd?
33.  Mr. Yeo : What are the current staffing levels of the Crown Prosecution Service; and if he will make a statement. [12646]
 Mr. Yeo : Is the Attorney-General aware that unless there is an immediate and substantial increase in Crown Prosecution Service staffing levels, his Government's much-vaunted aim of speeding up the workings of the criminal justice system will be just one more item on the ever-growing list of Labour's broken promises?
 Mr. Tim Yeo  (South Suffolk) : If the conduct of the Minister for Public Health is irreproachable, why is the Leader of the House so reluctant to grant the House a debate on the important and topical issue of tobacco sponsorship? Such a debate would enable the Government to explain to millions of sports fans why their preferred sport is being treated so much less favourably than motor racing.
 Mr. Tony Baldry  (Banbury) : May we have a debate next week on inward investment? There seems to be some friction between the Scottish Office and the Department of Trade and Industry about who is to take the lead on the matter. There is the curious concept of a concordat. Is that to be in writing? Will it be promulgated? How will it be umpired if there are disputes? How will problems be resolved within the machinery of government?
 Mr. Lloyd : I have no difficulty in paying tribute to those who took part in a step which I have described as significant. It would be churlish to say that those who played a part did not contribute to taking events forward. 457
 The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Mr. Tony Lloyd) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second Time. 456
 Mr. Lloyd : The hon. Gentleman is right; sub-critical tests are not prohibited by the treaty. It is necessary, in order to maintain not only the viability but the safety of existing nuclear weapons systems, that sub-critical tests are part of the opportunities available to all nuclear weapon states. Rather than seeing the issue as potentially threatening, I suggest that it is the opposite. It is a necessary safeguard for the whole world that nuclear weapon states maintain the opportunity to take advantage of sub-critical tests. I hope that that reassurance will be helpful to the hon. Gentleman. The issues are important. 458
 Mr. Lloyd : I am grateful for the hon. Gentleman's observation. It is, however, our view that the events in the Russian arctic were much more likely to have been caused by an earthquake. Britain has significant relative expertise in seismic areas, and it was certainly the view of our experts that that was the most likely course of events. The advantage of a CTBT coming into operation is that it will provide a challenge mechanism—an opportunity where there are doubts about the credibility and good faith of the parties to the treaty—that will enable an inspection to be set up and conducted very quickly. The treaty will enable us to do a lot more than we are able to under the present system. It both advances the need for science, in which countries such as Britain have expertise, and provides an opportunity for us to pursue matters beyond simple scientific measuring from a distance, by enabling us to look actively at what happens on site. I hope that that reassures the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Lloyd : The hon. Gentleman makes his point. I simply say that safety and reliability are what we are about. That is also what the Americans and others are about. We believe that the international monitoring system works and should allow for the detection of explosions as small as 1 kilotonne on a global basis. That is a significant reassurance. It is far more than exists now. The simple truth of the treaty is that if it is brought into operation and ratified, it will provide the opportunity for inspections to be challenged and bring in a regime that the world lacks. In so doing, it will enhance the safety of the world. Accordingly, I commend the Bill to the House.
 Mr. Tony Lloyd : Obviously, I welcome the fact that the official Opposition are completely behind the Government in pushing the Bill through the House, as are the Liberal Democrats. It is an important Bill and I think that the whole House accepts that. Some of the welcome was perhaps less whole-hearted than it might have been under the circumstances. 465 "The Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty is of singular significance to the continuing efforts to stem nuclear proliferation and strengthen regional and global stability. Its conclusion marks the achievement of the highest priority item on the international arms control and non-proliferation agenda. Its effective implementation will provide a foundation on which efforts to control and limit nuclear weapons can be soundly based." 466
 Mrs. Taylor : All the Ministers there are extremely competent.
 Mrs. Taylor : I am not sure that it will be possible to have a debate, but I hope that we can make some progress on the cycle allowance in the not-too-distant future.
 Mrs. Taylor : Pro rata, this year's Finance Bill had as much time as the Bills of previous years, so I do not think that our treatment of that Bill was unprecedented.
 Mrs. Taylor : I understand my hon. Friend's concern, although I cannot promise an early debate. He is right to say that there is a great deal of public concern about testing on animals, and that is why the statement from the Home Office today about the end to cosmetic testing on animals will be welcomed. My hon. Friend should give credit for the significant step forward that has been made on cosmetic testing.
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman has made his point in such a way that he does not need a debate.
 Mrs. Taylor : I do not think that there are too many wrong answers, but there was certainly an example last
 401
 Mrs. Taylor : To take the last point first, the hon. Gentleman himself pointed out what my right hon. Friend the Minister of Agriculture said earlier in the week, and I have nothing to add to that.
 Mrs. Taylor : I think that primary legislation will be required. Therefore, there will be a Second Reading debate which, I would imagine, will be a full debate, as is normal.
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I shall make a statement on the business for next week. Official Report. Official Report.
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : I really do think that the right hon. Lady's final remarks are ridiculous, coming from a member of Government who took no steps whatever in the direction of open government. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster will make a statement in the House when he presents the White Paper on freedom of information, and I am sure that many hon. Members look forward to that.
 Mrs. Ann Winterton : Does the Minister agree that hon. Members in all parts of the House are interested in the welfare of animals and of battery hens in particular? Does he further agree that this must be a matter for the EU and that we must have a common standard throughout? Does he also agree that the answer to the welfare of hens in a battery system is down to good husbandry and that the number of eggs that are required in this country for catering and for private consumption cannot be supplied by free-range or barn systems? In addition, housewives cannot afford such eggs. Will he present a common-sense solution to the problem and ensure that, with good husbandry, the product can be afforded by the majority of Britain's families?
 Mrs. Anne Campbell  (Cambridge) : Has my right hon. Friend had the opportunity to consider my request for a Members' cycle allowance yet? Does she think that a debate on Members' travel allowances would be helpful?
 Mrs. Spelman : Given that red meat consumption has fallen by 25 per cent. in the past 20 years and yet, in the same period, the incidence of colon cancer has increased by 20 per cent., will the Minister explain why he has given his full support to the Committee on Medical Aspects of Food Policy report which recommends a further reduction in red meat consumption? Is not that one more nail in the coffin of the United Kingdom's red meat industry, which is already in crisis?
 Mrs. Gillian Shephard  (South-West Norfolk) : I thank the right hon. Lady for her statement. She will doubtless recall that last week my hon. Friend the Member for South Staffordshire (Sir P. Cormack) asked for a debate on the Government's policy on higher education. Despite two such debates this week and despite the Prime Minister's frantic consultation of his briefing notes yesterday, it became clear from his inability to answer a simple question on the matter that he does not understand Government policy on higher education. 398 The Times
 Mrs. Ewing : Has the Minister had an opportunity to read the  Official Report
4.  Ann Clwyd : What steps he is taking to further the welfare of battery hens. [12612]
 Ann Clwyd : I am sure that I do not need to remind my hon. Friend, with his commitment to animal welfare, of the cruel conditions in which battery hens live. They are unable to stretch their wings, to peck or to scratch, and they are not even able to make nests in which to lay their eggs. What action does he intend to take on the Farm Animal Welfare Council report, which calls for the phasing out of battery cages and for further research on alternatives to that very cruel method of raising hens?
 Ms Gisela Stuart  (Birmingham, Edgbaston) : In view of the incontrovertible evidence, which appeared in  The Independent
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : I have to notify the House, in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967, that the Queen has signified her Royal Assent to the following Acts:
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : The Chair has not heard anything so far that has been out of order. My advice to the House is that there should be a little less provocation on both sides.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : If the hon. Gentleman were in the House paying attention to our proceedings he would know. The occupant of the Chair should not be required to inform him of the position. A motion has been moved about immediate committal. That is the Question that is before us.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The right hon. and learned Gentleman cannot speak for a second time in this debate.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The right hon. and learned Gentleman knows that that is not a point of order. He cannot make a second speech on that basis.
 The Chairman of Ways and Means (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : I must inform the House that I have not been able to select the amendments tabled in manuscript form.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The right hon. Gentleman knows that that is not a matter for the Chair. It is a point of information to the Minister.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I regularly remind the House that interventions should be brief. That rule is particularly apposite in the case of hon. Members who are seeking to catch my eye. I am sure that they would not wish to run the risk of repeating themselves.
 The Attorney-General : I am grateful to the right hon. and learned Gentleman. Victim support has a high priority. I am sure that, if there are deficiencies in the CPS in terms of staff, Sir lain Glidewell and his review team will point them out. My right hon. Friend the Home Secretary has announced only recently that there will be additional money available for victim support. These are matters of great importance. Frequently, as the right hon. and learned Gentleman knows, there are practical problems in ensuring that witnesses are properly informed and properly cared for in the courts. The Lord Chancellor is fully aware of that and of the importance of carrying out obligations under the victims charter. The CPS plays an important role, with the police, in ensuring that those obligations are carried out.
 The Attorney-General : No. I hope that the hon. Gentleman will do me the favour of recalling that we stated during the election campaign that we would put to the people—as we did successfully—the policy that in at least our first couple of years in office, we would operate within the spending constraints laid down by the previous Government. Within that policy, Sir lain Glidewell is conducting his review and I am sure that he will point out any difficulties that arise from the operation of the Crown Prosecution Service.
 The Attorney-General : On the first matter, I welcome very much my hon. Friend's visit to his area office of the CPS. I hope that all hon. Members, when they were given the branch reports during the summer, were invited to visit their area office, and I hope that those visits were carried out. 392
 The Attorney-General : On 30 September 1997, the Crown Prosecution Service employed the full-time equivalent of 1,975.5 lawyers and 3,612 other staff, the majority of whom are case workers supporting lawyers at branch level to prepare cases for court.
 The Attorney-General : I have explained why there has to be a balance. There was great concern when the proposal was first brought into operation. Time is short, as I am sure my predecessor would be the first to agree. There are often only days for consideration perhaps only hours in some cases, although in only a few, I hope. However, the cases are considered in time. I hope that all hon. Members will do their best to disseminate the information that 28 days are available from sentence.
 The Attorney-General : I took part in the debate when the Crown Prosecution Service was set up, and made loud and clear my view that there were difficulties as regards local accountability, which were enumerated by example. It is important that local communities are aware of what is happening. It is important that there is liaison at the highest level locally with the chief constable. It is important that local communities can discuss and debate whatever is happening—hence, I hope, as an input into the public domain, the branch reports. Further than that I will not go.
 The Attorney-General : The people at the coal face carry the primary responsibility to the public, but the hon. Member for Somerton and Frome (Mr. Heath) who tabled the question is concerned with something greater. Whether the CPS should be a national service and whether there should be local scrutiny in the form of committees,
 394
 The Attorney-General : Matters involving the police are for my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary.
 393
 The Attorney-General : The Crown Prosecution Service is already exposed to substantial local scrutiny. Each branch, for example, now publishes its own annual report, commencing for the calendar year 1996. We are taking the process further through the reorganisation of the Crown Prosecution Service into 42 areas.
 The Attorney-General (Mr. John Morris) : Since 1990, 41 consents have been granted for prosecution of incitement to racial hatred under part III of the Public Order Act 1986. Five applications for consent have been refused and one has been withdrawn. I am arranging for a breakdown to be placed in the Library.
 The Attorney-General : The statutory time for an application for leave to refer a sentence to the Court of Appeal on the grounds of undue leniency is 28 days. That is mandatory and cannot be extended. That strict time limit was imposed to meet the concern that it would be intolerable if those whose sentences were subject to a procedure had to endure a long period of uncertainty about whether it would be used. Any consideration given to extending the time limit would need to take account of those concerns, as well as the practical implications of any other changes in the regime.
 The Attorney-General : I assure the hon. Gentleman that the matter is a quasi-judicial function of my office. In the earlier years, from 1990, only two or three such consents were granted each year, but since 1995 there has been a rising curve, with seven in that year and numbers in double figures thereafter. Our best hope is that such matters will not arise, but if they do they will be approached quasi-judicially.
 The Attorney-General : I can assure my hon. Friend that I will act vigorously to ensure that the behaviour that
 390
 The Attorney-General : As the hon. Gentleman rightly says, my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary has made proposals to introduce new offences of racial violence. In my professional experience, the Court of Appeal has long said that such matters should be taken into account by sentencing judges. I am sure that the enshrining of such matters in statute will be welcome. The primary duty to investigate such complaints lies with the police, who will approach the problem vigorously, although so far the majority of identification has, successfully, been in the hands of the CPS.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : 1 welcome what the hon. Member for Hendon (Mr. Dismore) said about the motivation and good quality of the Crown Prosecution Service in his area. In light of the Attorney-General's decision to put more senior staff into the front line in the sense of having 43 chief Crown prosecutors—one for each police area—is he satisfied that he has sufficient staff to carry out other functions, such as caring properly for victims and witnesses, about which I am sure he would have told us if he had had the opportunity? That requires not only motivation but staff, including support staff, to assist the Crown prosecutors in court on the day. In that context, will the Attorney-General liaise with the Lord Chancellor's Department to ensure that there is somewhere for victims and witnesses to be cared for when the time comes?
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : Those Labour Members who are laughing will need some points repeated, because they were not in the Chamber when they were originally made. They only came into the Chamber after my right hon. Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst (Mr. Forth) pointed out that not a soul was on the Government Back Benches except one hon. Lady substituting as a Parliamentary Private Secretary. I think she was not present in a Back-Bench role—perhaps she
 425
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : In which year did that requirement first appear?
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : The hon. Gentleman knows perfectly well that that is not good enough. He has acknowledged in the House today that I alerted the Lord Chancellor last week to the suggestion that there should be a deputy secretary. That is the subject which we seek to debate today, and that is the matter on which we seek a careful and considered answer. I have tabled a manuscript amendment, which I hope will be selected for debate. It would be very helpful if the Minister would calmly and courteously answer the questions put by my right hon. Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst (Mr. Forth) and me about his attitude to a proper debate on this important issue.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : The hon. Gentleman said that former Ministers know full well that there is flexibility to allow people to continue after 60. I confess to less than complete knowledge of that. Will the hon. Gentleman tell us in two sentences what the rules are and how long any permanent secretary can continue?
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : It is not good enough. The hon. Gentleman has just referred to two qualifications that candidates may not have, but he has not listed any of the qualifications that are required. He will certainly have done his homework, so he should be able to spin off at least five qualifications that he has in mind.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : The hon. Gentleman keeps shaking his head and saying that he did not say that. I wrote down, "very few who have the requisite qualifications": those were his ipsissima verba. I am sure that he will explain them, and when he does so, will he say briefly what the requisite qualifications for this post are and where he expects to find them?
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : He said that very few people in the Lord Chancellor's Department—
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : I listened carefully to the hon. Gentleman. He said that very few people in government service have the requisite qualifications.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : I will respect your ruling, Sir Alan, and the House must abide by it. When Bills are taken at short notice, it is difficult for the House to obtain the best procedural value from the time available to us. We now have this clause stand part debate, and I intend to use it to focus again on the important questions that the Parliamentary Secretary utterly failed to answer.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : On a point of Order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. The Parliamentary Secretary made no attempt to respond to the key issue in the debate
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : With the leave of the House. That is not good enough.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : Hon. Members may feel that they are being kept longer than they expected. We wish to have a serious debate on two questions. The first basic question in the Bill is whether the House should agree that the Lord Chancellor's permanent secretary should not necessarily be a lawyer, not necessarily even a person with a legal qualification, who has grown up with the work of the Department and who has been there for at least five years. While we would be prepared to give that a fair wind, we would be prepared to do so only if the important continuity of knowledge from the Lord Chancellor's Department to the Lord Chancellor about his judicial functions and all functions connected with them and in relation to the practical administration of the courts were protected.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : I shall be brief. Hon. Members who were not here for the earlier debate will be interested to know what this one is about. It is about the fact that the Government are seeking to get their business through the House in a day. I have made it perfectly clear that we are not seeking to prevent that: the official Opposition did not vote against Second Reading. We seek a sensible debate on two points, the first and most fundamental of which I gave the Lord Chancellor notice of a week ago. The Minister acknowledges that. I have tabled a manuscript amendment and hope that I can persuade you to call it, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell  (North-East Bedfordshire) : I listened with care to what the Parliamentary Secretary said in opening the case for the Bill, and we are anxious to give the Bill a fair wind, up to a point. He pointed out that the office of permanent secretary to the Lord Chancellor is one of great importance. I entirely agree, and I am sure that he intended to say that it had been an office of great importance throughout the decades and, indeed, the centuries that it has existed.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : Indeed, on 6 December. The hon. Gentleman is 15 years younger than I am, but the Lord Chancellor is only 18 months younger. 415
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : No, I am not suggesting that. As I said, I am attempting to be helpful in the Bill's passage, but subject to modifications—to which I invite the Minister to give the closest attention. 414
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : If that is the hon. Gentleman's best shot, as is being said behind me, I do not think that he has thought it through, because the Bill would alter precedent. We would be sympathetic to some modification of precedent, but we should not then instantly leap to a slavish adherence to precedent in the opposite direction. The hon. Gentleman, who is a barrister if I read his biography correctly, has lectured on law, even to the new world, and should be a little more open-minded.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : I am glad that the hon. Gentleman is nodding to that. He added that the Lord Chancellor's Department has grown greatly in recent years. It has taken on an active role and responsibility for the court services in a way that makes it a Department of State in a late-20th-century manner, which to a considerable extent in earlier years it was not. 411 412
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : I agree with my hon. Friend. I am sure that the Minister would agree that the Lord Chancellor's Department is unique, for the reasons given by my hon. Friend, and by me earlier in my speech. The Lord Chancellor is a unique Minister. When he sits in Cabinet, he has a more independent role than any other member of the Government. He, together with the Attorney-General, has a role in ensuring respect within government for the rule of law. 413
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : I shall be brief, because my points are easily understood. I regret that the Minister, who, I believe, has a degree from Harvard, has answered only one of my questions and has not sought to respond to the detailed points that I put to him about the role of a deputy secretary in the Department.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : My hon. Friend is most eloquently making the key point. He has referred to the legal aid system and to the magistracy, and undoubtedly he is about to refer to the court system. If one is to administer those systems, one must understand them. Does he not agree that, without having available a senior person who has been through the mill and understands it, the Department will be diminished?
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : Will the Minister clarify what difference the Bill is making? How is the Bill changing the situation?
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : That may be so, but it does not begin to answer the question. Obviously, I have not been the Lord Chancellor and I have not been junior Minister to the Lord Chancellor, although I dare to say that it was partly on my recommendation that such a post was created. I was Solicitor-General for five years, and I did all the Lord Chancellor's business in the House.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : I am not satisfied with that. The very first point made by the Parliamentary Secretary when he was replying to the earlier debate was that this was simply a gaggle of lawyers articulating concern for a vested interest. I am a lawyer, and I am articulating concern for an interest, but it is not the interest of any private sector lawyer. I am concerned about the interest of 1,000 members of the Government Legal Service who hitherto have held this post for sound constitutional reasons. 443 Hansard
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : Of course. If the hon. Gentleman thinks that that is a point of any weight, he has not understood my argument. Rather than repeat it, I invite him to read it in  Hansard 446
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : I agree with my hon. Friend, and he has anticipated the very point that I was developing.
 444 445 [Interruption.]
 Dr. Ian Gibson  (Norwich, North) : Does my hon. Friend agree that another exciting initiative is the millennium products venture, in which the creativity of scientists and, especially, young people will be encouraged and rewarded in 2000? No doubt Britain will be at the forefront of some development comparable with penicillin.
 Dr. Gibson : Does my hon. Friend agree that the new deal initiative will be formative and encouraging to young people, who are much better informed about the use of the internet, and that it will encourage them to start new businesses? We are talking about more than keeping new businesses going and extending them; we are concerned with encouraging our bright young people to advance their ideas.
 Dr. Gibson : Does my hon. Friend agree that the big debate on the science base arises from 18 years of destruction by the previous Government? Has not the Dearing report addressed the problems of how to restore the excellent science base, how to invest in it and how to educate young people up to the correct standard? Every meeting that I have attended this week, including meetings at SmithKline Beecham and the Foundation for Science, has addressed the problem of the erosion of the science base after 18 years of Tory government.
 Dr. Gibson : The Norwich research park was fighting for its permanent existence after the prior options review instituted by the previous Government. There was much lobbying within the House and elsewhere to maintain the science base. Although the research park came through, it had a tremendous fight to maintain its excellence, and it was under pressure.
 Dr. Gibson : The hon. Gentleman mentioned the need to fund alpha-rated projects. I shall not trivialise the issue, or he will accuse me of doing so later. What percentages of alpha-rated projects were funded between the years 1992 and 1996? Did the percentage go up or down? I say that it went down under your tutelage.
 Dr. Palmer : I have seen this problem from the other end of the spectrum, having worked in management of a Swiss pharmaceutical company. I asked one of the senior directors whether the company was thinking of expanding its investment in Britain, in view of Britain's relatively low wage levels. He said that it was always nice to pay low wages, but that the industry's primary consideration was whether a country's educational standards and infrastructure were adequate. Wage levels, although a factor in decision making, are not decisive; companies are happy to pay high wages if they get the best people.
 Dr. Palmer : My question is whether my hon. Friend the Member for East Ham (Mr. Timms) would agree that the problems of the pharmaceutical industry and of
 503
 Dr. Palmer : Although I respect the hon. Lady's enthusiasm for European ideas, does she really think it wise to introduce artificial distinctions between larger companies, which would be required to treat their employees well, and smaller companies, which would be free from restrictions? Would not that lead to all sorts of artificial construction, whereby larger companies disguised themselves as conglomerates of smaller companies?
 Dr. Nick Palmer  (Broxtowe) : I declare a general interest in the subject. I have been an owner and publisher of a magazine for 14 years, and I advised my former company in the pharmaceutical industry. 530 531
 Dr. Palmer : Does the hon. Lady intend to address the subject of innovation before her speech ends?
 Dr. Nick Palmer  (Broxtowe) : Those of us who have staggered out at this unearthly hour on a Friday morning are a little disturbed to find Opposition Members using a debate on innovation to trot out their well-rehearsed, discredited campaign themes. I hope that the rest of the debate will focus on the subject that we are here to discuss.
 Mr. Brian Cotter  (Weston-super-Mare) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, South-West (Ms Jones) on her knowledgeable contribution to this morning's debate. She spoke clearly and raised a number of serious issues, such as late payment and business support. 517 "I want to see British innovators and entrepreneurs starting new businesses, particularly in high technology and manufacturing sectors." 518 519 520
 Mr. Cotter : I agree with you about any reduction in the effectiveness of business links. However, I think the idea is that business links are supposed increasingly to become free-standing and to finance themselves, so the scheme will progress in that direction. I would join you if the Minister, unless she says otherwise—
 Mr. Cotter rose
 Mr. Cotter : I am sorry, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Cotter : May I give way to the Minister, Mr. Deputy Speaker?
 Mr. Cotter : What we look for within the business links system is advice, and I shall touch briefly on some
 521
 Mr. Prior : Does the hon. Gentleman recognise that, when looking at London, one has to take into account the City of London, which is probably the most innovative financial centre in the world and is leading the world in a range of financial services and insurance products?
 Mr. David Prior  (North Norfolk) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, South-West (Ms Jones) on her maiden speech. We are all pleased to welcome to the Chamber an hon. Member with practical, down-to-earth experience of small businesses. If it is not presumptuous for a new Member like myself to say so, I think that she will make a terrific contribution to the House. 532
 Mr. David Prior  (North Norfolk) : Much as I like the hon. Member for Norwich, North (Dr. Gibson), his comments about the destruction of the science base in this country over the past 18 years were absolutely outrageous. He knows as well as I do about the Norwich research park, which is an outstanding example of a scientific
 491
 Mr. Ian Taylor  (Esher and Walton) : I am much enjoying the Minister's speech, not least because some of it sounds a little familiar. Will she confirm that the IT for all programme, like the millennium challenge,
 488
 Mr. Ian Taylor  (Esher and Walton) : I declare the outside interests that appear in the Register of Members' Interests, which have some relevance to the broad debate. 507 "just 3% of UK companies have produced a new product in the last five years. In contrast, of the top-performing 25% of companies, 15% had produced a new product in the past five years, and for the top 10%, the figure is 62%". 508
 Mr. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman—
 Mr. Taylor : I accept some of that criticism. In universities, there are problems with the standard of some
 509
 Mr. Ian Taylor : These are complex matters, which is why I objected to rather trivial earlier interventions. I, too, have spoken to representatives of the industry, one of whose biggest problems is the increasing complexity and cost of the equipment required to carry out top-quality research at our best universities. I very much doubt whether the Labour Government have got to grips with those matters, which, while not insuperable, require close collaboration with the industry if they are to be overcome. There is a requirement on industry to do more in terms of the equipment at its laboratories, and for a more elitist approach, concentrated on certain excellent centres of research within our university system.
 Mr. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman is far too shrewd and well informed to think that I have the figures at the back of my mind or to ask the question in that way, because in recent years the quantity of applications has increased so that it is likely that the percentage of grants given will have decreased. That is a matter that he can ponder later. 510 511
 Mr. Taylor : My hon. Friend is absolutely right and puts her finger on the problem. I was speaking about that problem at a conference yesterday. It is a grave concern. My hon. Friends may wish to know that the best reason for the United Kingdom not joining the euro on 1 January 1999 is the information technology reason. The best reason for us not being in the first wave of the single currency is that British business is simply not prepared for it. 512
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : My hon. Friend is saying something of the greatest importance. She is right to castigate late-paying Government Departments, but is not the late payment of debt to small companies a very serious problem for them, especially if they have only one or two suppliers, some of which are large companies that are deliberate late payers? While being critical of Government Departments, will she think long and hard about whether she should oppose in principle legislation in this area, because many small business men would welcome it?
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : I start by declaring an interest as the executive chairman of a small company. Let me say what a pleasure it has been to listen to the speeches today, particularly the maiden speech of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, South-West (Ms Jones). She represents the west midlands, the vibrant and vigorous powerhouse of industry, business and commerce—the real engine room of Britain's industrial prosperity. It was refreshing to hear a speech that was full of experience and wisdom based on professional experience. 533 534
 Mr. Wilkinson : It might interest the hon. Gentleman to know that I voted consistently against Maastricht, and my constituency association repeatedly submitted resolutions to our party conference that called for a reduction in interest rates, rather than the astronomic levels that were consequential upon our insane membership of the exchange rate mechanism. Incidentally, we shall have to rejoin the mechanism—if the president of the Bundesbank is to be believed—if we are to join the single currency. Furthermore, I did not support the financial perspective laid down at the Edinburgh summit, according to which our country will have to pay 3 per cent. extra in real terms every year until the end of the decade to the European Union. 535 536
 Mr. Wilkinson : I thank the Minister for her generous remarks. As we are in a period of bipartisan good will, I want to make some suggestions on the Green Paper proposals. I reiterate that nearly all the small business men whom I have met want either a statutory right to interest or some other statutory mechanism to ensure that they are paid on time and get the benefits of a good cash flow, and I agree with them entirely.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Can we be rather more careful with our parliamentary language, as it does help the debate?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I think that it would be sensible if we got on with the debate.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Order. That is the second time this morning that an hon. Member has not addressed the Chair correctly. I should be grateful if all hon. Members remembered how to do so.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman must take his seat when I am on my feet. I believe that he was agreeing not with me but with the hon. Member for Chesham and Amersham (Mrs. Gillan), who intervened in his speech.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Interventions are gradually getting longer. A large number of Back Benchers want to speak today—including the hon. Gentleman—so could he now briefly put his question?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I am sorry to interrupt. I am sorry to rise to my feet again, but the hon. Member for Norwich, North (Dr. Gibson) again used the wrong terminology in the House. Will he please try to remember?
 Mr. Nigel Beard  (Bexleyheath and Crayford) : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that one of the worrying things about the science base is the way in which the capital foundation, the equipment and the infrastructure of research in universities have been eroded in the past several years? That issue is causing anxiety not only in universities, but in the large part of our industry that depends on research and development. That is one of the issues that has sprung from the Dearing report, which has highlighted it, and highlighted the need for large sums of money to stay where we are, not only now but in future, so that we can keep pace with the rate at which equipment is developing?
 Mr. Nigel Beard  (Bexleyheath and Crayford) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, South-West (Ms Jones) on her maiden speech. I found her account of the origins of Wolverhampton both interesting and informative. I had thought that Wolverhampton had something to do wolves—either the sort that whistle or the sort with four legs. I now know that I was wrong. I welcome my hon. Friend's insight into, and experience of, small businesses, which will be a great advantage to the Labour party in fulfilling its election commitment to small businesses. 522 523 524
 Mr. Beard : How did small and medium-sized businesses fare when the previous Government—whom I believe the hon. Gentleman supported—raised interest rates to 15 per cent. plus?
 Mr. Beard : The hon. Lady has several times mentioned her aversion to the social chapter, which gives people security and decent conditions at work. Will she recognise that innovation depends on people taking risks and being creative, and that they will do that only if they are in secure employment? They will not do that if they are subject to the hire-and-fire culture that existed under the previous Government, whom the hon. Lady has supported, off and on, in past years. The policies of total deregulation and of putting people at risk, with people not knowing where their next wage is coming from and whether they will still be employed in a week's time, are total anathema to an innovative culture.
 Mr. Beard rose
 Mr. Timms : The hon. Gentleman is absolutely right, but there is also a large manufacturing sector in London. I am told that there are more people working in manufacturing in London than in the whole of the northern region. It is therefore vitally important that the businesses that employ those people are innovative and the Government are rightly turning their attention to how that can be achieved. 505 "the Park benefits the Local Community and County in a number of very significant ways, for example, by the creation of approximately 3,000 high quality jobs and attracting more than £300 million to the regional economy." Estates Gazette "One year after the Government Office for London and the London Planning Advisory Committee concluded that a minimum of 200,000 sq m of technology park floorspace was needed in London, only two small schemes have been established—at Brunel University, Uxbridge, and at … South Bank University. GOU's research had found that, compared with other major UK and world cities, London was underprovided. The report … envisaged 10-15 science parks being set up in London, most of them on no more than 10ha, but with two or three big enough to attract inward investment." "There is a very real opportunity to combine the skill and experience of science parks in fostering science and technology with the much better approach to master planning, estate development and management marketing found on businesses parks." 506
 Mr. Timms : I entirely agree with the hon. Lady. That is an important point and my hon. Friend the Minister is also committed to that approach. "to promote university/industry linkages and the transfer of technology; to promote the formation of high technology firms; to attract firms involved in leading edge technologies; to create new jobs."
 Mr. Timms : I thank my hon. Friend for making a telling point and I agree with him. The issue of the research infrastructure ought to be at the centre of this debate and I shall concentrate on that subject during the remainder of my speech.
 Mr. Timms : I thank the hon. Gentleman for that intervention and pay tribute to his work in this field as a member of the previous Government. I accept that these are complex matters, but my point is that the United Kingdom science base is in a parlous state and we are losing investment as a result. The Government should turn their attention to that in a way that the previous Government failed to do.
 Mr. Timms : I am well aware of the view of the small business representatives to whom I have spoken, and the view of the CBI, which is shared by the hon. Member for Esher and Walton, who is sitting next to the hon. Lady. That view is very different from the dogmatic view taken by the Conservative party. 502 "British companies are increasingly looking abroad for new research partners because they consider the UK science base is declining through under-investment." "finds the UK science base increasingly wanting." "we believe that there is growing evidence that some multi-national companies based in this country are re-siting collaborative research overseas in the light of concern about the research infrastructure in the United Kingdom."
 Mr. Stephen Timms  (East Ham) : I was interested to hear the hon. Lady's constituency correspondence, but I wonder whether she will now come to the subject of the debate, which is innovation in small businesses.
 Mr. Timms : The hon. Lady encouraged the House in the 24th minute of her speech by mentioning innovation. Perhaps she could turn her attention to that, which is the subject of the debate.
 Mr. Timms : I will be pleased to concentrate most of my remarks on the subject of innovation, but a response is required to the lengthy speech that we have just heard from the hon. Lady.
 501
 Mr. Stephen Timms  (East Ham) : We have just listened to a remarkable speech by the hon. Member for Chesham and Amersham (Mrs. Gillan). The subject of the debate is innovation and the role of small firms and the context for it is the Government's response to the third report of the House of Lords Select Committee on Science and Technology, which was published last month. I do not know whether the hon. Lady has read it or is even aware of its existence. Certainly, she made no reference to it and we are none the wiser as to whether she supports or disagrees with the Government's response to it.
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : For the past 30 years, Nelson Mandela has been something of an icon for the left. His prestige for what he has done is absolutely unquestioned; therefore, surely, it behoves us to listen to what he says on what might be an awkward subject. 544 545 546 547 "warrants have been issued, the two accused should surrender themselves for trial". 548 "It would not be possible… to mount a prosecution without the co-operation of the US authorities, who hold part of the evidence."?—[ Official Report 549 "but it is important that nothing is done which undermines the perception and the fact of the integrity of the Scottish judicial process. That will be felt very strongly by people in Scotland"?—  [Official Report, 28 October 1997; Vol. 299, c. 713.] "there are none so blind as they who will not see—none so deaf as those who will not hear".
 Mr. Dalyell : Will the paper also be considered by the Foreign Office lawyers, because some of us are desperate to have a second opinion on the Crown Office view?
 Mr. Dalyell : I do not name civil servants in the House, but two civil servants in the Crown Office who have given key advice have been there for a long time, and I understand that both have been honoured by the American Administration. That causes some of us to raise our eyebrows. All I am asking is that either the distinguished lawyers in the Foreign Office, or the Lords of Appeal in Ordinary, or Judge David Edwards QC, consider the issue. After all, the issue involves the British national interest, apart from anything else.
 Mr. Dalyell : The Lord Advocate was a very controversial counsel in the original and highly controversial fatal accident inquiry. And is it known to the Foreign Office that senior officials of the Crown Office have had honours from the United States Government?
 Mr. Dalyell : I do not know whether the Minister will remember this, but the late Alan Frankovitch, the film maker, said that he was always extremely careful about Lester Coleman, who was peripheral, not central, to the film.
 Mr. Dalyell : What on earth, then, is the objection to an incoming Labour Government offering to meet those people and talk to them, to find out face to face exactly what their position is? Is it not high time that we talked to them?
 Mr. Dalyell : I was at that conference, and a lot of other things were said. As I recollect, one of the objections was the difficulty of moving a jury. That objection, at least, I would have thought, had been met by Professor Black.
 Mr. Dalyell : Casual or not, the difficulty is that we will whistle in the wind. My hon. Friend talks about "in the end". When is there going to be an end? This has gone on for nine long years. Is it to go on for another nine, beyond the life of this and many other Governments? When will it be brought to an end? The difficulties with the Germans were brought to an end at least five years after 1945.
 Mr. Dalyell : The relatives.
 Mr. Dalyell : My hon. Friend says that I am suspicious of the United States. I was once a member of the executive of the British American parliamentary group, and would consider myself in many ways friendly to the United States, but I am extremely suspicious of them on this because they have been brutally critical of their forensic scientist, James Thurman. Many of the doubts about this whole issue are coming out of the United States.
 Mr. Dalyell : My hon. Friend has been extremely patient with me in answering questions but having listened to all this, forgive me if I say in an exasperated way—on behalf, I think, of the relatives and certainly of sections of British industry and exporters and of quite a number of other people—where on earth do the Government see this ending? This is a situation without an end in sight. There is no light at the end of the tunnel. 558
 Mr. Lloyd : I must say clearly and unambiguously to my hon. Friend that the mass murder of British citizens and many others could never allow us to make commercial considerations our primary national self-interest. Our national interest must be to pursue the matter until we draw legitimate conclusions about the guilt or otherwise of those accused. We owe that to those who died, and to their relatives.
 Mr. Lloyd : I remind my hon. Friend that the then Lord Advocate wrote to him in October 1995 explaining that the proof of the Lockerbie case did not depend on the evidence of Mr. Thurman. The allegations against him were made by a former colleague, Dr. Frederick Whitehurst, and related to criminal investigations other than Lockerbie. It was alleged that he had committed perjury, obstructed the course of justice and fabricated evidence. 557 Official Report
 Mr. Lloyd : Of course. They are the ones most directly concerned. I also recognise the frustration felt by everyone else on the issue.
 Mr. Lloyd : Of course, in the end I, like everyone else, recognise the terrible frustration, particularly of those most directly concerned—
 Mr. Lloyd : A jury is there not only to protect the rights of a defendant but to protect the Crown and the wider public interest; it is there precisely because it is not the professional legal officers, of whom my hon. Friend complains, who are able to dictate the pace and the conclusions of the trial process; the jury establishes some independence. I feel strongly—this is a personal view—that the jury system may not be perfect, but it is the best of all the systems devised in legal circles. 555
 Mr. Lloyd : We have made it clear that we would welcome independent observers from the Arab League, the Organisation of African Unity and the United Nations if they came to Scotland to discuss the trial process and satisfy themselves that a Scottish trial would be conducted impartially, independently and fairly. We believe that that is the way forward. 554
 Mr. Lloyd : My hon. Friend makes the point for himself. There is no doubt that Mr. Coleman has now come out with a version of events different from that which he held firmly before. 553
 Mr. Lloyd : I am not in a position to comment on that. I must honestly tell my hon. Friend that the Lord Advocate is not only a lawyer of considerable expertise but somebody who, in the light both of his background and of the care and patience with which he has reviewed the present situation, should not in drawing the same conclusions as his predecessors be accused of initial bias. He was aware of the pressure that existed; indeed, he is the third Lord Advocate to examine the evidence afresh, and each one has a responsibility not only to himself—
 Mr. Lloyd : I was saying that the Lord Advocate, both because of his background and professional training, and because of the office that he holds, made it his business to come to the issue anew. I understand what my hon. Friend says about his previous role, but there was a gap of some years after his initial involvement—a distance not only of time but of separation of responsibilities. 552
 Mr. Lloyd : There is no distance between us on the fact that this matter is of considerable national interest. Perhaps the best way to respond to my hon. Friend is to say that, since the Government came into office six months ago, and since I first responded to an Adjournment debate prompted by my hon. Friend, I—and every relevant member of the Foreign Office team and the Scottish Office and of the Scottish legal system—have spent much time looking at the evidence. I make no criticism of the time we have spent, because it was right and proper that we should do so. 551
 Mr. Lloyd : The lawyers in the Foreign Office are, of course, actively engaged in the debate. My hon. Friend will know that, during the recent consideration of the location of the Lockerbie trial by the International Court of Justice in The Hague, Foreign Office lawyers were present, together with the Lord Advocate. However, I do not wish to pretend to my hon. Friend that there is some mechanism under which the Foreign Office would even seek to interpose itself above the Lord Advocate in his legitimate and undeniable constitutional role as the legal authority in Scotland.
 The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Mr. Tony Lloyd) : I wish to assure my hon. Friend the Member for Linlithgow (Mr. Dalyell) that my attendance at the Dispatch Box today is no inconvenience. Indeed, from our conversations, he knows that I attach great importance to the need to pursue the issue with vigour. I thank my hon. Friend for setting out, with his usual vigour and courtesy, the important issues related to Lockerbie, on which he and the House require a clear view from the Government.
 Mrs. Roche : I completely agree with the hon. Gentleman and I would be delighted to discuss the matter with him. He will also be interested to know that the statutory right to interest is not the only measure that we propose.
 Mrs. Roche : I answered the hon. Lady earlier. If she requires any further details, I will be happy to write to her, as I am sure my Home Office colleagues will be. 539 540 "directives adopted … shall avoid imposing administrative, financial and legal constraints in a way which would hold back the creation and development of small and medium sized undertakings." 541 542
 Mrs. Roche : We have had an excellent and stimulating debate, and there has been general agreement about the importance of our small and medium-sized enterprises. 537
 Mrs. Roche : First, I join the hon. Lady in paying tribute to my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, South-West (Ms Jones)—that is at least something on which the hon. Lady and I can agree. I shall return later to my hon. Friend's excellent speech. 538
 Mrs. Roche : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mrs. Roche : The hon. Lady has been very courteous in giving way. I did not catch what she meant by "millennium compliance". What is she suggesting?
 Mrs. Roche : I agree. That is why the Government take the century date change problem seriously and why we have launched Action 2000 under the chairmanship of Don Cruickshank, whose appointment was announced recently. I think that the House was confused because the hon. Lady seemed to be saying that the problem was a Government regulation or to be implying that it was the Government's fault. I know that the Government's reach is far, but I did not think that our powers extended there.
 Mrs. Roche : Of course, I take letters written by any small business to me very seriously. As I explained, I see my role as meeting colleagues and liaising with them. I am pleased that the hon. Lady is promoting the profile of small firms and talking about the regulatory burdens on them. Will she, therefore, condemn the record of the Government of which she was a member in the previous Parliament, as they over-regulated and added to the burdens on small firms, contrary to the deregulation initiative that they introduced?
 Mrs. Roche : No, I do not agree with the hon. Lady. She was part of the governing party in the previous Parliament, so I am sure she was aware—indeed, perhaps she even made representations to the effect—that, at the end of that Government's deregulation initiative, they had created more regulations than they had abolished. So we will take no lectures from the Conservative party about deregulation.
 Mrs. Roche : Would the hon. Lady care to read the rest of that letter? It might help.
 Mrs. Roche : Go on.
 Mrs. Roche : The House will have noticed the hon. Lady's reluctance to read the rest of that paragraph. May I invite her to do so?
 Mrs. Roche indicated assent.
 Mrs. Roche : May I deal with a misunderstanding on the part not of the hon. Member for Weston-super-Mare (Mr. Cotter) but of the hon. Member for Chesham and Amersham (Mrs. Gillan)? There is no separate spending review for business links—although, of course, every Government programme in every Department is subject to our overall comprehensive spending review. I am sure that the hon. Lady knows that full well, but I thought that I had better pick her up on that little point.
 Mrs. Roche rose
 Mrs. Roche : As the hon. Gentleman knows, I—unlike some of his right hon. and hon. Friends—am always ready to pay tribute to him and to his work. Certainly he developed the initiative for business while he was in government, and I warmly congratulate him on it. We have extended that initiative further, which is why my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade recently announced that she is to make almost an extra £3 million available for it in the current financial year.
 Mrs. Roche : My hon. Friend is right, and one of the key elements of welfare to work and the new deal—one of the possibilities under the employee option—is self-employment, including the appropriate training gateways. That would give a great boost for young people starting their own businesses, and we already know about the great contribution that schemes can make in that regard. Our newest and most creative companies, especially in the high-tech sphere, often consist of very young people making an enormous contribution. 489 [Interruption.] 490
 Mrs. Roche : I must say to the hon. Gentleman—using that wonderful time-honoured phrase "with the greatest respect"—that I do not agree with him, and that I do agree with my hon. Friend. During the past 18 years—despite the record of the previous Government—there have been examples of individual excellence, but we have a long way to go to make up the deficiencies of that Government.
 Mrs. Roche : I absolutely agree with my hon. Friend, and I take this opportunity to pay tribute to him for his distinguished work. As the House knows, he is an eminent scientist. One of the very exciting things about the Dearing report is the emphasis it places on some of the things that I have talked about, including encouraging entrepreneurship, the creation of new companies, and the partnership between the financial community and the academic base.
 Mrs. Roche : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. I had hoped that the debate would be constructive and civilised. Even though I am in politics, I remain optimistic, and I am looking forward to the rest of this morning's proceedings. 485
 Mrs. Roche : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for bringing that exciting challenge to the House's attention. I had the great privilege of being with the Prime Minister when he launched the challenge on behalf of the Design Council. What was so exciting about that event was the range of innovation and ideas, both from some of our prestigious large companies and from some small companies. For anybody excited by Britain's future, it was a momentous event. I wish to pay tribute to the Design Council for organising the challenge, and I wish it well. 486 487
 Mrs. Roche : It is only 10.27 am, so the hon. Lady is still a little muddled, but if she had been listening carefully, she would have heard that I said only a few minutes ago that I did indeed meet my ministerial colleagues on small business issues. May I also tell her that I am never furious?
 Mrs. Roche : Of course I have contacts with other Ministers. As the hon. Lady will know, the export forum, which has just published a report, is considering all aspects of export promotion, in co-operation with industry. She has, if I may say so, rather a cheek. It was the Government of which she was a member who caused great consternation and dismay to exporting companies by their action on trade support for export fairs. One of the first actions of my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade on her appointment was to reverse that decision. That was widely welcomed by our exporters. The hon. Lady may like to think again.
 Mrs. Roche : It may be a little early for the hon. Lady, but she must not get into such a muddle. She is talking about a group not having met, but I have already told her that I have bilateral meetings with fellow Ministers on issues of importance to small businesses and that we have set up the Access Business ministerial group. I assume that she is advancing the Opposition's proposals on the subject, but when I asked her to list the achievements of the ministerial group to which she referred, there was a resounding no.
 Mrs. Roche : I am grateful to my hon. Friend, and I am sure that, as the morning progresses, there will be further discussion.
 Mrs. Roche : I do not accept what the hon. Lady says about the minimum wage, which I see as aiding competitiveness. That is why small firms welcome the minimum wage. But I agree that companies investing in the skills training of their work force can be productive, and I agree also that that can make a remarkable contribution. It helps employee retention, which can be helpful to productivity and profitability. Although the hon. Lady and I will not agree on the minimum wage, we can agree about the importance of employee training. 492
 Mrs. Roche : No, there is not. I should be interested to know what that ministerial group achieved. It certainly did not prevent over-regulation. I said in response to the hon. Lady's written question that I had bilateral meetings on important issues for small business with all my ministerial colleagues, and I told her that the Access Business ministerial group, situated in the Cabinet Office, deals with the very issue of cutting red tape. We aim for a record that will far outstrip the previous Government's.
 Mrs. Roche : What were the achievements of the earlier ministerial group?
 The Minister for Small Firms, Trade and Industry (Mrs. Barbara Roche) : The theme of today's debate is doubly important, as innovation—the successful exploitation of new ideas—is a key factor in the competitiveness of this country, and small firms provide the motor which will push forward wealth creation, employment and quality of life for the benefit of us all.
 Mrs. Roche : Of course not. Again, the hon. Lady seems to be muddled. As it is rather early in the morning, I shall refrain from saying anything more cutting. 483 484
 Mrs. Roche : I whole-heartedly concur with the hon. Lady's comments about the importance of a debate, and join her in congratulating the company concerned.
 482
 Mrs. Gillan : Will the Minister confirm that the Government have betrayed all students throughout the country by imposing charges for higher education?
 Mrs. Cheryl Gillan  (Chesham and Amersham) : I thank the Minister for giving way so early in her speech, and congratulate her on securing today's debate. Surrey Satellite Technology is indeed a tremendous company that is to be congratulated on the great strides that it has made in the space industry in Britain. Will the Minister confirm that that company is part of the university, and that its profits help the university's costs, particularly as students will now be facing charges for higher education?
 Mrs. Gillan : The Minister knows that she is in government and we are in opposition; it is she who has to answer questions.
 493 "Dear David, I am writing to advise you that, following a recent decision by the Home Secretary, the Home Office Exports Initiative will be withdrawn after just over a year to cease at 31 October. Together with the trade associations representing the security industry, APPSS and BSIA, I am endeavouring urgently to find alternative ways to support the exporting efforts from this growth industry sector."
 Mrs. Gillan : From that response it is clear that some Departments have no Minister responsible for small businesses, so of course the hon. Lady could not tell us, as I asked, when they met or what they discussed.
 Mrs. Cheryl Gillan  (Chesham and Amersham) : There is no more important part of the business community than the small business sector. Ninety-nine per cent. of all UK businesses employ fewer than 50 people. They produce a third of the nation's output and provide half our private sector jobs. In a lengthy and well-intentioned speech, the Minister has given only one side of the story.
 Mrs. Gillan : It is clear from the Minister's furious interventions that she did not know that the initiative for business existed in the Home Office and was not consulted before a small firm was informed that the initiative was being cut. She should immediately contact her opposite number in the Home Office to find out what is going on. 494 "You may not be aware of a very recent development affecting the Home Office Exports Initiative … which is that the Minister, Alun Michael, is closing the initiative as from the end of October 1997." "Whilst committed financial support will be honoured, the ambitions of the Trade Associations and the security industry are, nevertheless, being left hanging. This move is extremely disappointing to APPSS and, of course, the security industry. As a result of analysis we carried out during this year's Embassy exhibitions, which were supported by the Home Office initiative and by DTI country desks, I recently presented evidence to the Home Office committee of clearly identifiable business returns to industry and therefore to our national export drive, especially in Europe. We have indications on file of new business arising from our Vienna, Madrid and Stockholm/Helsinki events this year."
 Mrs. Gillan : What a load of tosh. The Minister could not give the straight answer, no, to the written question whether there was a Minister responsible for small businesses in every Department, and she has not answered the question that I just asked her: was she consulted by the Home Office before the initiative was withdrawn? Does she consider that 51 days are enough? Is the Minister of State, Home Office, the hon. Member for Cardiff, South and Penarth (Mr. Michael), responsible for small businesses in that Department as part of the group that she has set up? Did he consult her in any way, shape or form before small businesses had the rug pulled from under them by the abolition of the export initiative?
 Mrs. Gillan : I thought that you just said—
 Mrs. Gillan : I am awfully grateful for that intervention. It is difficult to see how firms can innovate against this background, and I intend to provide more illustrations of the problems that small firms will face.
 Mrs. Gillan : It is not a point at all.
 Mrs. Gillan : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that it would be disastrous if the budget for business links were reduced next year? The Minister has already confirmed that this year it will remain the same as it was under the previous Government, but the budget for successive years is under review. Will the hon. Gentleman join me in expressing concern about the possibility of that budget being reduced?
 Mrs. Gillan : That would be interesting, and we look forward to it.
 Mrs. Gillan : That sentence does not affect the fact that the Minister said:
 "No exemptions are envisaged for small businesses."
 Mrs. Gillan : The letter states:
 "You also asked whether micro and small businesses will be excluded from the minimum wage proposals. No exemptions are envisaged for small businesses. However, in formulating its recommendation to Government on the initial level at which a minimum wage might be set, the Low Pay Commission will undertake a wide ranging consultation exercise which will include the small business sector."
 Mrs. Gillan : The Minister adds that there will be a "wide ranging consultation exercise", but the earlier sentence presumes that there will be no exemptions for small businesses. I cannot see how she can wriggle out of that.
 Mrs. Gillan : I am happy to place the letter on record, although I shall certainly not go through it chapter and verse. The last paragraph states:
 "You also asked whether micro and small businesses will be excluded from the minimum wage proposals. No exemptions are envisaged for small businesses."
 Mrs. Gillan : My hon. Friend is right, and later I shall come to the devastating effect that the Government's
 495 "This means we are 'taxed' extra via NI contributions because we are a small company."
 Mrs. Gillan : Please accept my unreserved apology, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mrs. Gillan : I wish that the Minister would grow up. She keeps on believing that she is still in opposition and that I have to answer the questions. She has to answer the questions, and the sooner she gets used to it, the better. I am grateful, however, for her undertaking to look into this case. Will she also give an undertaking that she will find out whether a Minister in the Department of Social Security can be appointed to be responsible for the affairs of small businesses, otherwise matters pertaining to them will certainly disappear into obscurity, as they have obviously done in that Department and in the Home Office? 496 "I have just received a letter from one of the companies that I have a pension with advising me that because of your new tax rules that crept in shortly after the election my pension may not produce the required income. Further they warned me that you might be thinking of abolishing higher rate tax relief on pension contributions. I would appreciate three straight answers ie yes or no to the following questions: 1 Will the tax changes on dividends you introduced reduce the value of my pension bearing in mind my pension is invested in a managed fund. 2 Are you considering reducing the higher rate tax relief on pension contributions. 3 If you do reduce tax relief, have you further plans to tax the self-employed. As a self-employed person, I have no employer to contribute any monies to my pension and therefore have to provide my own pension. Those who are employed pay no tax on their employer's pensions contributions. As a self-employed person I receive no sickness payment when I am ill and therefore have to pay for an insurance to cover any illness for which I receive no tax relief. Those who are employed pay no tax on their employer's sickness contributions other than tax on received income. As a self-employed person I cannot afford to be ill and if I have to have medical attention it has to be at a time to suit me ie 1 must be able to plan my illness and schedule any operation to fit my schedule as the state will not help me. I therefore pay for private health and whilst I am not asking for tax relief on this as it is my right to have the choice, I would point out that, to date, hospital bills etc. for my family have been over £65,000 in the last three years. This is £65,000 that the NHS has not had to spend on my family."
 Mrs. Gillan : Obviously, the hon. Gentleman does not like what I am talking about—the barriers and the stifling that small businesses are facing and will face. "As a self-employed person I get the distinct impression that New Labour sees the hard working self-employed as a bottomless pit from which you can keep taking without replacing. Yet it is the self-employed who are creating work for others and thus keeping many people in work. I may be a small business, my business has a turnover of under £400,000 and I end up with a surplus of around £40,000. I work approx 80 to 100 hours a week with two weeks holiday. I pay out to other self-employed people in excess of £250,000. Whilst these figures are obviously very small in relation to the economy, they are important and vital to me and those who I engage." 497 "No exemptions are envisaged for small businesses."
 Mrs. Gillan : The hon. Lady has confused herself. She had better go back to sleep. I know that it was difficult for her to read her official speech so fluently this morning.
 Mrs. Gillan : It may have struck the hon. Lady that we are approaching 2000, and businesses are having to undergo millennium compliance, which takes time, effort and money.
 Mrs. Gillan : The title is "Innovation and the Role of Small Firms"; I am discussing the role of small business. Mr. Deputy Speaker, I find it impertinent that the hon. Gentleman should try to do your job for you. I believe that I have been in order throughout my speech, otherwise you would have leapt to your feet.
 Mrs. Gillan : When I wrote to the Minister about exemptions for small business, I wanted to her to take
 499
 Mrs. Gillan : No, I am coming to the end. I have been most generous in giving way. 500
 Mrs. Gillan : I have no problem with my hon. Friend's remarks. If businesses are to innovate and grow, they cannot face having large sums being owed to them, especially by Government Departments
 Mrs. Gillan : May I ask a question in the same vein as the hon. Gentleman's intervention on me? When are you going to get down to talking about innovation?
 Mrs. Gillan indicated dissent
 Mrs. Gillan : May I congratulate the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, South-West (Ms Jones) on an excellent maiden speech, and ask whether the Minister is now saying that she will reconsider the answer she gave me in a letter and look at the possibility of the exemptions for small firms?
 Mrs. Gillan : Does my hon. Friend agree that the Government show a high level of hypocrisy because they know that the minimum wage will cause job losses, particularly among young people, and that is why the Low Pay Commission has specifically been given a brief to consider 18 to 24-year-olds? The minimum wage will undoubtedly cause job losses, particularly among young people.
 Mrs. Gillan : The hon. Lady has clearly moved on to other speakers and has finished her analysis of my speech. Perhaps she will comment on the Home Office export initiative matter that I raised. Did she know that it was being cancelled by the Home Office and does she believe that 51 days' notice is reasonable? Did she know, was she consulted and does she think it reasonable?
 Mrs. Gorman : I absolutely agree with my hon. Friend. 528
 Mrs. Gorman : The hon. Gentleman raises an interesting point, but that situation already exists to some extent. The growth in part-time work in this country has more to do with firms, both large and small, trying to get around the extremely expensive and limiting Government regulations and restrictions on employing people than with the jobs on offer needing only part-time workers. 527
 Mrs. Gorman : If the hon. Gentleman contributed that to the debate, I should be extremely pleased, but I am sure that, having made his contribution, he would prefer that I allowed someone else to get in on the act.
 Mrs. Gorman : The hon. Gentleman must be aware that the previous Government reduced unemployment to an all-time low—despite many of the regulations imposed by the social chapter—but that each new regulation causes a distortion in employment patterns. 529
 Mrs. Gorman : Does my hon. Friend agree that all these Government initiatives are very worthy, but that in the end most small firms do not go to the Government for help when they set up; they do it on their own? The one thing that they do not want is the Government breathing down their necks when they are trying to get up and get going. The proposed new Government regulations will have a devastating effect on that initiative.
 Mrs. Gorman : In endorsing my hon. Friend's concern about the introduction of the minimum wage, we must not let the House run away with the idea that small firms pay only small wages. Some of the worst payers are the great nationalised industries, such as the health service.
 498
 Mrs. Gorman : I agree with the hon. Gentleman that science and technology play an important role. Will he
 504
 Mrs. Teresa Gorman  (Billericay) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, South-West (Ms Jones) on her practical, down-to-earth contribution. One of the things that women bring to the House is a good dose of common sense. While our male colleagues, with the best will in the world, often waffle on about the niceties of a matter, she brought it down to the facts, because of her background as a business adviser and training manager. 525 526
 Mrs. Gorman : Does the Minister agree that one of the most significant ways in which people learn skills is by working in an organisation and that this particularly applies to people with relatively low skills and poor education? Does she further agree that her Government's policy of introducing a minimum wage will prevent those people from taking a job at a modest wage as a way of paying for their education in skills?
 Mrs. Teresa Gorman  (Billericay) : I speak, as I have for many years, as an employer. Is the hon. Lady aware that one of the most obstructive things to small firms' daily life is the business of Government interference in the way in which firms employ people? Does she agree that the Government's decision to sign up to the social chapter, which will inevitably impose more regulations on the way in which small firms take on people, will have a detrimental effect on the growth of small businesses?
 Mrs. May : Does my hon. Friend agree that another serious problem faced by companies is the combination of having potentially to prepare for the introduction of the euro on 1 January 1999, as my hon. Friend outlined, and the 2000 problem, which means that they face the problem of an insufficient number of people with the IT skills to prepare the system necessary for those two events? Does my hon. Friend agree that the industry and the financial sector are seriously concerned about that problem?
 Mrs. Theresa May  (Maidenhead) : Is the hon. Gentleman not aware that the Forum of Private Business and the Institute of Directors, the former representing small businesses and the latter representing large businesses, are against the single currency?
 Ms Bridget Prentice  (Lewisham, East) : I beg to ask leave to withdraw the motion.
 Ms Jennifer Jones  (Wolverhampton, South-West) : I am grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate. Earlier this week, I was asked—not by an hon. Member, I hasten to say—why I had left it so late to make my maiden speech, and why I had not fitted it into what that person called "one of the big debates". For me, this is one of the big debates, on an issue crucial to the House. 513 514 515 516
 Mr. Matins : Given that the immigration appellate system is judicial, not administrative, and that many immigration adjudicators are becoming extremely frustrated at what they see as an over-use, possibly an abuse, of judicial review—25 per cent. of all judicial reviews are now immigration related—is it not time that the Minister considered whether he should curb, restrict or in some way remove the rights of parties to seek judicial review of such decisions?
 Several hon. Members rose
 Hon. Members : Yes we did.
 27. Dr. Starkey : What plans he has to secure the provision of an adequate transport infrastructure for the millennium experience. [13454]
 Dr. Starkey : I thank the Minister for his reply. He may be aware from reports in today's press that public interest in the millennium exhibition is extremely high and that there are concerns that there may be some problems with congestion. What steps is he taking to ensure that visitors to the exhibition spend the maximum amount of time enjoying themselves at the exhibits and the minimum amount in queues to get in?
 Dr. Rudi Vis  (Finchley and Golders Green) : After 1986, London became quangoland. It is always argued that what the Conservatives wanted to create would be more efficient. In fact, it has been most inefficient and very expensive. I hope that you will comment on that.
 Dr. Vis : I apologise to you, Sir.
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (North Essex) indicated dissent.
 Mr. Jenkin : I am most grateful to the hon. Gentleman for inviting fellow Essex Members to take part in the debate and I associate myself with much of what he has said. In particular, removing the means of justice from the local community hardly seems to be in keeping with the message that everyone in the House wants to send to local communities about justice being at the heart of each of our communities.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Stop it.
 Madam Speaker : Mr. Skinner.
 Madam Speaker : I called Mr. Skinner.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Had the hon. Gentleman mentioned museums in the earlier part of his question, it would have been acceptable. Presumably, he is talking about the staff in museums.
 Madam Speaker : The time allocated to various Departments is not a matter for the Speaker; it is a matter which is arranged through the usual channels. I share, however, the hon. Gentleman's disappointment at not having his question called, although it was only the second question to the Minister without Portfolio. He will recall that on Question 27, to get a minority voice heard—I am sure that it is right that minority voices should be heard in the House—and to allow a Conservative Front Bencher to speak, I had to call four supplementaries. Often, that is where the time goes.
 Madam Speaker : I judged an application for a debate under Standing Order No. 24 earlier today and thought it right that, rather than have such a debate, which was also applied for last week, the Minister should be brought to the Dispatch Box today. He has given the House a very full explanation of the situation.
 Madam Speaker : I do not need to take further points of order on the matter. Ministers are not accountable to the House for the hours they spend in their Departments. They are accountable at the Dispatch Box for policy decisions. The hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Bercow) seems to have got the bit between his teeth and to be very interested in procedure, as I am. He might like to apply for an Adjournment debate on a Wednesday or one evening, in which he may get the full answer he seeks.
 Madam Speaker : I must inform the House that I have selected the amendment in the name of the right hon. Member for Richmond, Yorks (Mr. Hague).
 Madam Speaker : Presumably, the hon. Gentleman is attempting to defend his party's amendment.
 Madam Speaker : I think that I know precisely what the hon. Gentleman has in mind. I remind him that the debate is perfectly in order; otherwise, we would not be continuing with it.
 Madam Speaker : Order. I regret to interrupt the hon. Gentleman, but his remarks relate to the earlier question. We have moved on and are now dealing with the nation's museums. The hon. Gentleman's question must relate to the substantive question on the Order Paper.
 Ms Abbott : Is my hon. Friend aware of the widespread concern about Government proposals on changes to legal aid, especially about whether poorer litigants will be able to afford the up-front costs of insurance and various medical fees for reports in medical negligence cases? Recent remarks by my hon. Friend seem to suggest that he thinks that solicitors will simply absorb those costs, but is that likely, given that many practices are not in a position to cross-subsidise legal aid or contingency work with lucrative private work?
9.  Mr. Hurst : If he will make a statement on the employment opportunities the tourist industry will be able to offer under the welfare-to-work programme. [13435]
 Mr. Hurst : What steps are the Government taking to encourage the active participation of the industry in the welfare-to-work programme?
 Mr. Alan Hurst  (Braintree) : I am most grateful to the hon. Member for Colchester (Mr. Russell) for raising this topic, which is one of general concern in the county of Essex. Mr. Deputy Speaker, I draw your attention and that of the House to my entry in the Register of Members' Interests as partner in a firm of solicitors. 687
 Mr. Hurst : I am grateful for that information, of which I was not aware. I agree entirely with my hon. Friend's remarks.
 Mr. Lansley : Will the hon. Gentleman continue on this subject for a moment? A referendum that takes place
 643
 Mr. Lansley : It is good of the hon. Gentleman to give way twice. I am a former member of the leaders' committee of the Association of London Government, and I am not clear whether the hon. Gentleman is saying that the members of that committee felt incapable of acting as scrutineers for a mayor giving strategic direction. It would be for the mayor rather than the assembly to give strategic direction, and for the assembly, as executive body, to act as scrutineer. Is the hon. Gentleman saying that the borough leaders—he was once such a leader—are incapable of acting as scrutineers of the strategic direction coming from the mayor?
 Mr. Andrew Lansley  (South Cambridgeshire) : It has been a pleasure to listen to the debate, not least because it gave me the opportunity to listen to the maiden speeches of the hon. Member for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound)—who entertained the House extraordinarily well and gave us all the hope that, although we have had to wait several months to hear his maiden speech, we will not have to wait long before hearing further speeches from him—and of my hon. Friend the Member for Uxbridge (Mr. Randall). I know that he will be a worthy representative of the constituents of Uxbridge, as was his predecessor, who was much respected in the House. 647 648
 Mr. Lansley : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for raising that very important point. We should begin by examining the powers that will be given formally to a separately elected assembly. At the outset, they may appear to be the powers of central Government rather than those of local government or the London boroughs, but I believe that the assembly will be constrained in several ways. Central Government will find it extremely inconvenient if a separately elected assembly seeks to second guess, depart from or contradict central Government policies. Therefore, over time, central Government will pressure that body to spend less time second guessing central Government policies and more time seeking to implement its strategic direction through the powers of other subsidiary bodies. I fear that such an assembly will ultimately seek and receive the power from central Government to issue directions to bodies within London. 649
 Mr. Lansley : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for that intervention, which allows me to understand his case better. I agree that representatives on an assembly that scrutinises the activities of a directly elected mayor should be drawn from the London boroughs, for precisely the reasons that my hon. Friend has given. However, I believe
 650
 Mr. Robathan : I am sure that the House will join me in welcoming the Minister to the Front Bench.
 571
7.  Mr. Robathan : What assistance his Department is giving to sport for disabled people. [13433]
 Mr. Robathan : I am sure that the whole House supports that work. However, should not the Minister listen to what disabled people say themselves? Perhaps he should read the letter from the chairman of the British Paraplegic Shooting Association, backed up by the chief executive of the British Olympic Association, which pleaded with the Home Secretary to allow disabled sportsmen and sportswomen in wheelchairs to continue with their sport of firing pistols. The Minister should listen to those people and not dictate what they should do.
 Mr. Andrew Stunell  (Hazel Grove) : At the serious risk of prolonging a particularly tedious and pointless debate, may I point out that the Liberal Democrat Member who has been nominated has wide experience outside the House, has knowledge of the issues to be dealt with by the Committee and is thoroughly suitable? When it comes to establishing a Committee—
 Mr. Stunell : Yes, it is an intervention, and the hon. Member for Spelthorne (Mr. Wilshire) gave way to me.
35.  Mr. Barry Jones : If he will make a statement on progress in respect of the rationalisation of the magistrates courts. [13462]
 Mr. Jones : Does my hon. Friend agree that closures can be very controversial and sometimes very injurious to local communities? Does he understand that long distances can be involved, that taxis are expensive and that bus services are sometimes hopelessly unreliable? Would he be prepared to meet a group of magistrates to discuss such matters?
 Mr. Russell : The offer was there. "There's been a lot of wild talk but we have had no evidence to support the claims" "The decision will greatly inconvenience the victims of crime and witnesses who are required to attend court … but more importantly it will in the long-term undermine the very concept of local justice as there are now large areas of Essex that are without a local court."
 Mr. Bob Russell  (Colchester) : When I first decided on this debate, I thought that only the county of Essex was subject to court closures of such magnitude, but, as we have heard in recent weeks and, indeed, this afternoon, magistrates courts are closing throughout the country. It could be said that the magistrates court system, which has evolved over centuries, is being systematically dismantled. That policy is driven by the Treasury and it will lead to fewer, larger courts and to almost a production-line distribution of justice. That is not what local justice is all about. "I trust that you can bring to the attention of the House that this is not only a case where saving in one area of the criminal justice system will result in significant increased expenditure in other areas, but also there is a very real issue of the loss of local justice across large swathes of the County." 685 "The magistracy deals with about 97 per cent. of criminal offices prosecuted in England and Wales. It also has important family and local licensing jurisdictions." "efficient and effective administration of the courts".—[ Official Report,
 Mr. Russell : I agree with the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Russell : I agree with the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Bob Russell : They ignored everyone.
 Mr. Grocott : Having heard numerous representations from the Opposition on the minimum wage, has my right hon. Friend formed the impression, as I have, that it is a matter of supreme indifference to them whether people are earning £1.50 an hour, £1 an hour or even less? Although we regret the fact that the Opposition are taking such a time to learn basic, decent standards of industrial
 562
 Mr. Smith : I am well aware of the issue. My hon. Friend the Minister for Sport will have a word or two to say about the British academy of sport later. We hope to make some specific announcements in a few days.
 The Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport (Mr. Chris Smith) : During its lifetime, the Millennium Commission will spend more than £2 billion on projects throughout the United Kingdom, covering five key themes: investing in education; promoting science and technology; revitalising cities; supporting communities; and encouraging environmental sustainability. It will thus prove of lasting benefit to the whole nation.
 Mr. Smith : My hon. Friend is right. The forest of Burnley scheme has received a £1.7 million grant from the Millennium Commission. It will create 500 hectares of new woodland and engage an arts and education programme linked to the woodland work.
 Mr. Smith : I am aware of the issue. We need to ensure that the frames are robust enough and that heritage interests are taken fully into account. I shall discuss the matter with English Heritage.
 Mr. Chris Smith : The Radio Authority has statutory responsibility for the advertising, award and regulation of all independent radio licences acting within the terms of the Broadcasting Acts 1990 and 1996. Since its creation, the authority has almost doubled the number of independent radio licences issued. The authority has a continuing forward programme for the advertisement and award of new licences.
 Mr. Chris Smith : We have received nearly 500 letters from hon. Members and members of the public about the television licence. In addition, there have been 12 questions on the subject from hon. Members. The majority of those representations have been about television licence fees and licensing requirements for specific individuals or groups.
 Mr. Smith : It is a bit rich for Conservative Members to talk about doing down pensioners. I received a letter from the hon. Gentleman on 6 July about the BBC licence fee, in the course of which he mis-spelt the word "licence" not once but four times. That, I suppose, is the result of 18 years of Tory education policy. [HON. MEMBERS: "Answer."] The answer to the hon. Gentleman's question is that, if we made free licences available to all pensioner-only households, it would cost £465 million,
 564
 Mr. Smith : My hon. Friend makes a much better point than the hon. Member for Ribble Valley (Mr. Evans). There are indeed serious anomalies in the system at the moment. We shall certainly wish to look at that, in conjunction with the general review of the licence fee in a few years' time, to which we are committed. We were committed to that review by the previous Government and we shall be following it through.
 Mr. Smith : No, because we made no commitment whatever on concessionary licences before the election.
 Mr. Smith : The hon. Gentleman makes a valid point on Channel 5. He also has to recognise that, in determining this issue, we need to achieve a proper balance between the need for sporting organisations to get the best possible value from the matches and games that they are putting on and the right of ordinary people who cannot afford and do not want to afford subscription television to see major national events. It is getting that balance right that the review is all about.
 Mr. Chris Smith : As we promised before the election, we are considering the nature and extent of the list of major domestic and international sporting events that must be available for live coverage on terrestrial television. I have recently consulted all interested parties on the principles that ought to apply to such a list. The results of that consultation have been received and I shall shortly be appointing an advisory group to advise me further.
 Mr. Smith : Yes, because the proposals in the White Paper specifically suggest that we should move away from the exclusive concentration on capital spending, on bricks and mortar, and start to give more support from lottery funds to people and activities; that will be the start of resolving some of the problems that the right hon. Gentleman identified.
 Mr. Smith : It is precisely because inadequate energy and effort were put in by the previous Government that we have had to spend all of the past six months trying to get a grip on this issue. On Friday, we will be announcing a clear set of details and a framework for the academy. There are three possible locations, which will be invited to submit final proposals within one or two weeks to accord with the framework that we will put in place on Friday, and a decision will then be made rapidly.
 Mr. Chris Smith : I published my proposals to reform the lottery in the White Paper "The People's Lottery" in July. They will make the lottery work better and increase the number of people who will benefit from the good causes that it supports. Some of the proposals require legislation and I expect to introduce the lottery reform Bill before Christmas.
 Mr. Smith : I agree with my hon. Friend on both counts. The authority takes steps to advertise in local newspapers, to contact local authorities and to write to all hon. Members in the area affected by a forthcoming franchise. I hope that the authority will see what more it can do, but it is mindful of its responsibilities.
 Mr. Smith : My hon. Friend will know that one of our proposals is that the distributary bodies should draw up a strategic plan for the deployment of their resources; as part of that, we shall look to them to ensure a fair distribution across the whole country.
 Mr. Smith : I am not sure that I would make any such requirement specific to any political party.
 Mr. Smith : I will make three brief points in response to the right hon. Lady's six. First, we stand firmly behind the principle of additionality. In September 1994, the previous Prime Minister said:
 "The money raised by the Lottery will not replace public expenditure." "Lottery funds are not intended to substitute for funds which would have otherwise been provided by conventional public expenditure."
 Mr. Christopher Fraser  (Mid-Dorset and North Poole) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I tabled Question 28 to the Minister without Portfolio. Is it not unreasonable that we had only five minutes of his presence in the Chamber when it has taken us six months to get him here? During that five minutes, he managed to answer only one question. Would not democracy be better served by the Minister without Portfolio coming to this Chamber regularly, so that we could hold him accountable for his actions?
 Mr. Clive Efford  (Eltham) : I am grateful to be called to speak in a debate that will give the people of London a say in the future government of their city. I wish first to pay tribute to several hon. Members who have made maiden speeches this evening. The hon. Member for Uxbridge (Mr. Randall) made an amusing speech about his constituency. I share with other hon. Members a knowledge of his constituency gained from recent visits, but I am probably the only hon. Member who can say that he has frequently visited and knows intimately almost every constituency in London, as I did in a previous life. I can recommend greasy spoons across the capital and perhaps in a later life I will write an Egon Ronay guide to those august establishments. 659
 Mr. Efford : I agree with my hon. Friend, who gives me an opportunity to pass on my wisdom on this issue. The suggestion that we need 33 licensing authorities across London is patently barmy. We need legislation to tackle the problems in the private hire industry across London. I have strong views on the issue, which I hope to be able to voice in the House in future.
 Mr. Efford : My hon. Friend did not mention the condition in which people arrive at work after hours of driving on motorways and congested roads into the centre of London. One wonders why this issue has not been debated with enthusiasm in previous years—perhaps the emphasis on the car has dominated the debate on traffic congestion and public transport. 660
 Mr. Efford : I could not agree more. 661
 Mr. Dale Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : Does the hon. Gentleman object to the name of the hon. Member for Bournemouth, West (Mr. Butterfill)? If he does not, to which members of the body has he taken exception?
 Mr. Dale Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : Is it not true that, if we had heeded the voice of those who opposed the war in 1991 and who tried to insist that we go down the sanctions route, Saddam Hussein would be today strutting round the streets of Kuwait? Is not the only way out of this dilemma to deal with him in the way that we have done in the past? It is the only language that that man understands. If we do not take action, Saddam Hussein will issue a threat against the developed world and it will be too late for us to meet it.
 Mr. David Heath  (Somerton and Frome) : Is the Minister aware that both sides of the House recognise that, in seeking a successful outcome without hostilities through every available diplomatic means, it is essential that the international community speaks as one and betrays neither disunity nor lack of resolve? However, military action by Iraq against a plane or personnel engaged in performing a UN mandate would be intolerable and, in extremis, that must be met by firm but proportionate force. Will the Minister assure the House that if British military assets are committed in that way, the matter will be reported to the House at the earliest opportunity?
 Mr. Kidney : Will my hon. Friend confirm that the legal profession has made recent representations in favour
 574
 Mr. Tredinnick : Is the Minister aware that the BBC's children's television programme budget has been cut by £5 million since last year? Does he worry about the increased number of cartoons shown on television? Has not the time come for him to examine that issue as well as the question of a children's radio station?
 Mr. David Wilshire  (Spelthorne) : I understand that consultation on the referendum is primarily a matter for Londoners. I do not represent a London seat, but I represent an area policed by the Metropolitan police. The Minister is consulting Londoners, but I hope that he will also listen to those of us from outside London on policing. May we have an assurance that he will not try to bring my constituency and others into London at some stage in the future, because we would oppose that?
 Mr. Wilshire : If the hon. Gentleman can contain himself for a moment, I have it in mind to come to exactly that point. In due course, I will no doubt solve his worries.  [Interruption.] 680
 Mr. Wilshire : Like the hon. Member for Workington (Mr. Campbell-Savours), my right hon. Friend anticipates some of the points that I wish to make as my speech progresses. My right hon. Friend is absolutely right. We need a fresh view on these matters, and one would not object to one, two or maybe three new Members on the Committee.
 Mr. Wilshire : My hon. Friend is right, and he is exactly the sort of new Member that I would wish to see on the Committee. I commend him to the Government as a potential replacement for some of the names that they have put forward to represent the Labour party view.
 Mr. Wilshire : To the best of my knowledge, the fund was treated with the respect it deserves when there was a Conservative Administration. Trustees with experience and knowledge—and who could recall the service of those people who would be applying for help from the fund—were appointed. It is a poor show if the best that Labour can do is to put forward four very worthy people with no knowledge of the workings of the House before 1 May and no direct experience of the former Members who might be seeking help from the fund.
 Mr. David Wilshire  (Spelthorne) : Despite the fact that I sense irritation from Labour Members who do not want to discuss this matter, it strikes me that it is sufficiently serious for us to spend some time on it. It would be wrong simply to nod it through without giving it decent consideration. 679
 Mr. Wilshire : I understand that, Mr. Deputy Speaker, but I hope that you will understand in return that to make up my mind about whether the membership level is right, I need an understanding of the task facing the six people. Otherwise, I will find it difficult to vote one way or the other. We need to get to grips with the work load.
 Mr. Wilshire : I am grateful for that advice, Mr. Deputy Speaker. When some of my friends speak subsequently, I will have a chance to read the Act. After I have read it, it may be necessary for me to seek to intervene to clear up such matters. For the moment, I fully understand your ruling and I will therefore talk about whether it is right for us to approve the six names.
 Mr. Wilshire : I completely agree with my hon. Friend. If the Labour Government cannot bring themselves to provide people with experience, understanding and compassion, it suggests that they have nothing but contempt for what happened before 1 May. That worries me greatly because of the nature of the fund, which is all about care and compassion for former Members from all parties. We now have a Labour Government who treat the care and compassion of former Members with contempt.
 681
 Mr. Wilshire : My hon. Friend made a fair point. As I understand it, others of my hon. Friends want to address the detailed points about the individual trustees. It is for me to raise the general questions in advance. I believe that I have done that. I have set out the questions that the Government must answer to satisfy me. There are many other questions and I should be grateful if the Leader of the House could answer them all.
 Mr. Wilshire : I understand your point, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Hansard
 Mr. Wilshire : I was doing my level best to focus the attention of the House, or at least of the few Labour
 682
 Mr. Wilshire : Does my right hon. Friend agree that matters are even worse than he has described since according to the Green Paper, elected members of the
 599
 Mr. Winnick : Why does he not do so?
 Mr. David Winnick  (Walsall, North) : To ask the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs if he will make a statement on the crisis with Iraq.
 Mr. Winnick : I thank the Minister for his statement. Is he aware that everyone in the House hopes that there will be a satisfactory diplomatic solution and that we are all hoping and praying that that will be the case? Is he further aware, however, that the full responsibility for the crisis certainly lies with the Iraqi dictator, and only with the Iraqi dictator?
 Mr. Skinner rose
 Mr. Skinner : The right hon. Gentleman will have to go after me. After all, he is only a little Liberal.
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) rose
 Mr. Fatchett : My hon. Friend sets out clearly the indictment sheet against Saddam Hussein. There is a long history of terrible crimes against his own people and other people in the region. My hon. Friend is also right in saying that the United Nations and the British Government are determined to support UNSCOM and to ensure that UNSCOM is able to carry out its work. Without that support, there is a threat to others in the region; we are talking about weapons of mass destruction, biological and chemical weapons, and it is crucial that we understand the scale of the threat from Saddam Hussein. 578
 Mr. Fatchett : I welcome the right hon. and learned Gentleman's support for the United Kingdom Government and the position taken by the United Nations. I also share his assessment of the work of Butler and his colleagues, and the right hon. and learned Gentleman is right in saying that that work is apolitical and on behalf of the United Nations. It is important that the principle of United Nations bodies being open to people of all nationalities is preserved, which is why the United Nations has taken the position that it has adopted.
 The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Mr. Derek Fatchett) : Saddam Hussein is once more defying the clearly expressed will of the United Nations and of the international community by refusing to allow the United Nations special commission, UNSCOM, to carry out weapons inspections. It is essential for the region and the rest of the world that UNSCOM be allowed to carry out its work. We know that Saddam Hussein still has the capacity to produce weapons of mass destruction. UNSCOM is crucial to ensuring that they are all destroyed.
 Mr. Fatchett : My hon. Friend is right to draw attention to that.
 Mr. Fatchett : I welcome the hon. Gentleman's comments on behalf of the Liberal Democrat party. We share his concerns about the nature of the regime in Iraq and the need to take concerted action. He will recall that the presidential statement made 10 days ago was a unanimous presidential statement from the Security Council. We are working with our colleagues to ensure that we maintain diplomatic unanimity in our response to Saddam Hussein. I repeat that the crucial point for us all is that Saddam Hussein must understand the message that we are not in a negotiating position; there are no compromises; he must accept that UNSCOM can do its work. That is in the interests of the Iraqi people and the people of the region. We cannot allow that dictator to continue to develop weapons of mass destruction.
 Mr. Fatchett : Let me correct my right hon. Friend's assertion in two respects. First, in relation to the statement issued by the Security Council on UNSCOM, there was no division among the permanent members of the Security Council: there was unanimity across the Security Council for the presidential statement. If we try to create false divisions, the only person who will gain any advantage from that is Saddam Hussein.
 Mr. Fatchett : On the hon. Gentleman's second question relating to our military capacity, the answer is yes. Those views will be expressed clearly during the review of Britain's military capacity. On his first question, we have said on many occasions since the presidential statement was issued from the United Nations that we do not rule out any option, and we are very clear in our language.
 Mr. Fatchett : I agree with my hon. Friend's statements and the way in which he made them. Not only would Saddam Hussein be strutting round the streets of Kuwait, but I suspect that the dangers that he poses to other countries in the region would have materialised. We must get across the message that weapons of mass destruction know no boundaries or international obstacles. They could be used against any country in any circumstances.
 Mr. Fatchett : I am pleased to re-emphasise the need for United Nations unanimity and for us to work with our partners on such issues. We are working on behalf of the United Nations and the international community. I welcome the first part of the hon. Gentleman's comments. The humanitarian balance is often difficult to strike, but we know from the lessons of the 20th century that appeasement leads to more loss of life than does taking a firm stand on principle.
 Mr. Fatchett : My hon. Friend's analysis is factually flawed. The United Nations resolutions provide Saddam Hussein with the opportunity to use oil revenues to meet the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people. My hon. Friend should address his question to the Iraqi dictator, who feels that it is in the interests of Iraq to spend money on weapons and military hardware rather than on the people of Iraq.
 Mr. Fatchett : The first part of my hon. Friend's question was about arms sales. One reason for publishing our criteria for arms sales in July was so that our decisions should be open, clear and accountable. I have no doubt that he welcomed those criteria.
 Mr. Fatchett : My hon. Friend has a long history of interest in Iraq and the problems facing the people of Iraq. She makes a powerful case for looking at the history of northern and southern Iraq, and at what has happened to the Kurds in the north and to the marsh Arabs in the south, both of which communities have been victims of Saddam Hussein. It is worth putting it on the record that both communities are victims of the dictatorship of their own leadership.
 Mr. Fatchett : It might be useful if I take this opportunity to reassure the hon. Lady and other hon. Members that we are not in a negotiating position. The Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, will report to the United Nations this afternoon about the mission that he sent to Baghdad. It was not a negotiating mission, but was intended simply to remind Saddam Hussein of the United Nations resolutions and the presidential statement, and to make it clear that there is only one option available: Saddam Hussein must comply with the United Nations resolutions. If he does not do that, I repeat that all options will be available to us and that we shall consider each and every one of those options in order to identify the best means of achieving the United Nations objectives.
 Mr. Fatchett : My hon. Friend is right both on the legal points and in terms of the implications for the United Nations. However, I must add a further point. The UNSCOM task is to deal with weapons of mass destruction. We are talking about not only nice legal or procedural points regarding the United Nations but the well-being of people in that region. Would any hon. Member trust Saddam Hussein with chemical and biological weapons? I suspect that the answer is self-evident.
 Mr. Fatchett : I never doubt my hon. Friend's sincerity, but he needs to look at the tactical and strategic options before the world community. If we allow Saddam Hussein to defy the United Nations and the world community, we offer him a green light to terrorism against his own people and others in the region. We must stand firm, because that is the principle which the history of the 20th century has taught us.
 Mr. Fatchett : I agree with the hon. Gentleman. We must assess all the options. As to the military options—if we ever reach that situation—the assessments must be made in private and not in newspapers or in television studios. That is clearly in the best interests of any personnel who are engaged in military activities.
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : Will my hon. Friend confirm that, under international law, there is
 582
 Mr. Garnier : The Labour party policy document "Access to Justice", which was published just before the election, stated that conditional fees were not expected to make a significant improvement to access to justice and that they were little more than a gimmick designed to mask the state of the legal aid scheme. Was the Labour party wrong then, or is the Minister wrong now?
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : I am grateful to the Minister for giving way. I wanted to pick up his rather sneering reference to amateurishness and his implication that there is something wrong with local government in London. How does he square that with a recently published survey in which international business
 587
3.  Mr. Forth : What representations he has received on the impact of a minimum wage on employment in the nation's museums. [13428]
 Mr. Forth : Will the Minister be making any representations to the commission in order to safeguard the interests of the museums which, for the time being, are under his care? If so, what will he say? Is he concerned about the possibility that the museums might have to lose valuable staff if a minimum wage were wrong-headedly set at too high a level? Is that one of the things that he will say?
 Mr. Forth : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Will you clarify for the House that the motion, which the Order Paper states can be debated for up to one and a half hours, is debatable and, therefore, that it is in order for hon. Members to raise these matters and to ask legitimate questions about them? The Leader of the House seems to be implying that that is not the case.
 Mr. Forth : Of course, Mr. Deputy Speaker, you are right. Indeed, you are, by definition, right. I am talking about Members and I confess that I allowed myself to stray to Labour Members. As you say, Mr. Deputy Speaker, the point is very narrow, but it is important.
 Mr. Forth : I hope that I have kept very much to the point. I am sure that you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, would
 678
 Mr. Forth : Lest the House imagine that my hon. Friend is being uncharitable, I ask him to agree that one hon. Member from this year's intake would be appropriate—perhaps even two—to bring a fresh perspective on matters. I share his objection that so many new Members will mean that the body is unrepresentative and that that is taking an unnecessary risk with something as sensitive as the matter before us.
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : I would have expected an explanation of the proposed composition of a body that touches on the interests of all hon. Members. When I have said just a few words on the subject, I hope that one might be forthcoming. It seems rather odd, to say the least, not to have a balance of representation on such a body, which represents the interests of Members in the widest possible context. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Forth : The proposed Labour Members all appear to have been elected recently. I do not wish to criticise them as individuals; indeed, I am rather impressed that they are prepared to take on the onerous responsibility dealing with a matter as potentially sensitive as the House of Commons Members' fund so early in their parliamentary careers. However, Members would have expected a spread of experience on such a body so that the Members dealing with the matter could have offered knowledge, experience and perhaps a length of service in the House.
 Mr. Forth : Does the hon. Gentleman wish to intervene?  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Eric Pickles  (Brentwood and Ongar) : We have been fortunate today to hear a number of distinguished maiden speeches. I heard the speech by the hon. Member for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound). It was an amusing contribution and he spoke with great clarity. I am very
 655 Hansard [Interruption.] [Interruption.] 656 657 658
 Mr. Eric Pickles  (Brentwood and Ongar) : The hon. Gentleman has quoted a suggestion from those who seek to close courts. A spokesman has said on BBC Radio Essex that the majority of those who appear before magistrates plead guilty. Surely that strikes at the
 686
 Mr. Pickles : And the answer is?
 Mr. Pickles : I appreciate the hon. Gentleman's courtesy to the House. Does he propose that each and every member of the strategic authority should be full time?
 Mr. Pickles : But if one does not give the electorate of London a choice, is not that phoney democracy?
 Mr. Pickles : The hon. Gentleman cannot say that there is broad agreement except on the number of questions. Half the borough leaders want two questions and the majority of the people of London want two questions. What is the hon. Gentleman frightened of? Is he frightened of giving the people of London a choice? The people of London will have no choice and he is treating them as if he is a dictator in a banana republic.
 Mr. Eric Pickles  (Brentwood and Ongar) : The Minister may be right about the incompatibility of a mayor without an assembly, but it is equally possible that the hon. Member for Southwark, North and Bermondsey (Mr. Hughes) or my right hon. Friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield (Sir N. Fowler) may be right. This is a matter of political debate which will be decided either by
 591
 Mr. Pickles rose
 Mr. Maude : It is usual to welcome a Minister on his first appearance at the Dispatch Box. It is unusual to have to wait six months to do it. At the rate of answering one question every six months, we can be sure that the Minister will not outstay his welcome. Financial Times
 Mr. Maude : Bearing in mind recent U-turns on the sporting front, will the Minister confirm the report in yesterday's papers that cricket, rugby and football will be included in the British academy of sport? In the light of recent events, can he tell the House whether the leading lights of those sporting organisations were financial contributors to the Labour party?
 Mr. Maude : I am sorry the Minister's answers are not to be followed by a countermanding from the Secretary of State, who seems to be in the habit of saying that the Minister has it wrong whenever the hon. Gentleman opens his mouth in public.
 The Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department (Mr. Geoffrey Hoon) : No representations have been received by the Lord Chancellor's Department in respect of proposals to close Morley magistrates court. Magistrates courts are provided by the local paying authority for the use of magistrates courts committees. Decisions concerning the future of any magistrates court are for the relevant MCC to determine, in consultation with the local paying authority.
 Mr. Hoon : I am sure that the magistrates courts committee will take that into account. I understand that, in the light of the Court Service inspectorate report of March 1997, the Leeds magistrates court committee decided at its meeting of 17 October 1997 to conduct a review of its outer courthouse premises at Morley, Pudsey and Wetherby. I assure my hon. Friend that no decisions have been taken at this stage of the review and no plans have been formulated on the outer courthouses.
 Mr. Hoon : Although training is primarily a matter for the chief adjudicator, we have substantially increased the money available for judicial training from —47,000 spent last year to —220,000 planned to be spent this year. 573
 Mr. Hoon : These are matters on which we are consulting. We are receiving representations from the Bar and the Law Society, as well as the views of insurance companies, on the affordability of the proposals. We will take all those matters into account to ensure that no one is unfairly excluded from the courts.
 Mr. Hoon : I regularly receive representations from right hon. and hon. Members and the public about the availability of legal aid. Since my noble and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor's announcement on 18 October about the changes we propose to the rules on availability of legal aid for money claims, my officials have met the chairman of the Bar, the president of the Law Society, insurers and other professional and consumer interest groups.
 Mr. Hoon : As I have said before to the hon. Gentleman, a review of those matters is being undertaken by Ministers across Departments and, as a result, I hope that we will be able to bring forward proposals that meet his concerns.
 Mr. Hoon : The Lord Chancellor's Department's responsibilities relate to appeals. The enlightenment necessary in that context should be such as to ensure that such appeals are dealt with speedily, fairly and in a satisfactory manner.
 Mr. Hoon : We have had the benefit of academic research into the use of conditional fees. That research demonstrates that, in the approximately 28,000 cases so far agreed under conditional fees, there has been a remarkable success rate. We are happy to base our policy on the results of that academic research.
 Mr. Hoon : My hon. Friend will be aware that, on 29 October, I made a statement to the House setting out in some detail the Government's plans for the future structure of the magistrates courts service.
 Mr. Hoon : I have said that one of the solutions to the problem which my hon. Friend set out is that lawyers themselves could absorb those up-front costs. Most lawyers are in private practice and most businesses are required to expend a certain amount of capital-in this context, we are talking about time and some disbursements-before being able to achieve a return on their investment. I have suggested that that is one of the options, although, as I have already said, there are clearly others available.
 Mr. Hoon : A number of discussions have taken place with a variety of insurance companies. We are interested in ensuring the widest possible availability of insurance at the best possible price for the users.
 Mr. Hoon : Of course, in those days I was not required to make such an assessment of a case; therefore, I never did. However, if the hon. Gentleman is referring to the proposal made by my right hon. and noble Friend the Lord Chancellor that a case should attract a 75 per cent. chance of success before it should be granted legal aid, I can say only that it has been necessary to reach that test because of the failure of lawyers, over a long period, to satisfy adequately the existing test, which is essentially a 50 per cent. chance of success. We firmly believe that there is absolutely no reason why the taxpayer should have to support litigation that someone would not take forward privately.
 Mr. Hoon : I would certainly be willing to discuss such questions with any group of magistrates whom my hon. Friend cared to bring to the Department.
 Mr. Hoon : I should be delighted to ensure that those local questions are thoroughly investigated, but I emphasise that they are local matters for decision by local magistrates courts committees. The matter only reaches the desk of my right hon. and noble Friend the Lord Chancellor in the event of the local paying authority appealing against the decision made locally by the magistrates courts committee.
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful for my hon. Friend's question. I mentioned in the statement to which I recently referred
 576
 Mr. Hoon : I am extremely grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his concern about the need to refurbish my 9 by 4 office in the House of Commons—hitherto, he has not been noted for his concern for the welfare of Labour Members of Parliament. I am, however, delighted to discover that he is now participating in the art of constructive, helpful opposition.
 Mr. Hoon rose
 Mr. Hoon : The hon. Gentleman got his question wrong the first time. He will know that the Lord Chancellor is the Speaker of the House of Lords, and the official residence is provided for his use in precisely the same way as Speaker's House is provided for the Speaker of this House. It is entirely appropriate, therefore, that both Departments should be properly conserved as part of the historic building programme undertaken over a 10-year period by the House authorities. Speaker's House has been maintained to a high standard, in keeping with the conservation policy, and the Lord Chancellor's official residence should match that standard.
 Mr. Hoon : The hon. Gentleman's definition of "consult" is obviously different from the one that I am used to. To consult does not necessarily mean to agree with all the arguments advanced. Consultation means giving people the opportunity to advance arguments; whether those arguments are accepted is a matter for the authority consulting. 690
 Mr. Hoon : I intend to deal with resources in due course. The hon. Member for Colchester said that the removal of a magistrates court from any town also removed the concept of local justice. I invite him to think again about such an extravagant statement. Many towns across England and Wales have not had these courts for a very long time now; even in Essex, a number of towns have not had magistrates courts for some time. It is necessary for the local magistrates courts committee to make judgments about where best to locate its courthouses. Only in the event of that decision being challenged by the paying authority—Essex county council or any other paying authority—does the matter become the responsibility of the Lord Chancellor. 689
 The Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department (Mr. Geoffrey Hoon) : This is an important topic and I am grateful for the opportunity to respond to the debate. I am sure that all those hon. Members present are delighted that the hon. Member for Colchester (Mr. Russell) has initiated tonight's debate. The considerable interest that hon. Members have shown illustrates the importance of magistrates courts, their courthouses and the organisation of magistrates courts committees, as was indicated recently when I set out the Government's policy in that respect. 688
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : I wholly endorse what the hon. Member for Alyn and Deeside (Mr. Jones) just said. Is the Minister aware that the Gloucestershire magistrates courts committee is consulting on the closure of Stow-on-the-Wold magistrates court? That so-called consultation is not an open exercise; it consists of consultation among the staff of the various magistrates courts, the Crown Prosecution Service and other officials, but it does not involve members of the public. Will the Minister urgently investigate that situation? Surely it is the public who use the justice system of this country and who will be inconvenienced by the closure of the court who ought to be consulted first, and not afterwards.
 Mr. Davies : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for your guidance on the use of the word "your". 646 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Davies : It is a bit rich to hear comments about democracy from the beleaguered ranks of the rump of the former Conservatives in London: a political anachronism, a handful of people who cannot make up their minds among themselves, talking about democracy 10 years after the only choice that Londoners were given was no choice—abolition. It is ridiculous.
 Mr. Geraint Davies  (Croydon, Central) : I was pleased to hear the maiden speeches by my hon. Friends the Members for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound) and for Wimbledon (Mr. Casale), and by the hon. Member for Uxbridge (Mr. Randall), none of whom, sadly, is now in the Chamber. I was going to say to my hon. Friend the Member for Wimbledon that Wimbledon football club is very happy indeed in Croydon, in Selhurst park; long may that continue. Further to the comments by the
 642
 Mr. Davies : That question remains open. My personal view is that members should be given an opportunity to devote more time to their duties than the leader of an average council does. As with many such matters, we are in a process of consultation and I have expressed my personal view. 645
 Mr. Davies : The answer is that we advanced the proposition of a mayor and a Greater London authority to the people of London—that is in our manifesto and that is our mandate—and we said that we would conduct a referendum, and we will.
 Mr. Davies : The hon. Gentleman knows that 61 questions are out for consultation. We are an open Government who listen to people's views, but we are not prepared to pick to pieces the strategic element of our proposal, which we are duty bound to put to the people of London, in the absurd way that is suggested. The academic points that are being suggested by the handful of rabble on the Conservative Benches are ridiculous.
 Mr. Davies : I have a number of points to make in response to that intervention. First, borough leaders are
 644
 Mr. Howarth : That is a most offensive answer. We know that old Labour still survives on the Government Benches; that cavalier attitude to £650,000 of public expenditure on the Lord Chancellor's accommodation betrays that fact.
365.  Mr. Gerald Howarth : If he will report on progress in the refurbishment of the Lord Chancellor's accommodation within the Palace of Westminster, indicating the latest estimated cost. [13463]
 Mr. Howarth : I have not finished yet. Given that the Minister's right hon. and noble Friend wishes to dispense with the traditional attire of his office and to hand over power to the judges, perhaps the only sense in which the Lord Chancellor remains traditional is that, like all socialists, he is anxious to spend as much of other people's money as he possibly can.
 Mr. Gerald Howarth  (Aldershot) : I welcome the Government's and the Minister's firm resolve to resist the activities of Saddam Hussein. I draw the Minister's attention to some remarks made in this building only last Friday night by the former Commander-in-Chief of United Kingdom forces during the Gulf war, Air Chief Marshal Sir Patrick Hine. He made the point that, during the Gulf war, it was difficult trying to fight while seeing on television endless speculation about military options. Will the Minister join me in asking the media to resist the temptation of setting out all the military options—there are only a relatively small number—so that our forces are not put at risk and the Government's policy is not undermined?
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : Why should London be different from elsewhere in the country, where the county is the planning authority for the structure plan and the district councils are responsible for the local plans?
 Mr. Harry Barnes  (North-East Derbyshire) : Are not the people of Iraq faced with terrible conditions? On the one hand, they have Saddam Hussein's totalitarian dictatorship, which terrorises and exploits them. On the other hand, they have United Nations sanctions that bring about starvation, deprivation, lack of medical supplies in hospitals and the death of women and young children in droves. Have the United Nations or the Government applied themselves to resolving the terrible conundrum for the people of Iraq?
 Mr. Bayley : Does the Minister recall the words of Sir Winston Churchill? He said that a minimum wage was needed because, otherwise, the good employer would be driven out of business by the bad, and the bad employer would be driven out of business by the worst. I have consulted tourism employers in my constituency who say that they have no problem with the principle of a minimum wage, although they believe that the level at which that wage is set is important. Will my right hon. Friend assure me that a wide range of voices in the tourism industry will be consulted before a final decision is made?
33.  Mr. Malins : What plans he has to increase the training given to immigration adjudicators. [13460]
2.  Mr. Clappison : What representations he has received on the impact of the introduction of a minimum wage in the tourist industry. [13427]
 Mr. Clappison : Has the Minister seen the evidence presented to the Low Pay Commission by the British Hospitality Association, which represents 25,000 establishments in the hotel and catering industry, some 78 per cent. of which think that the introduction of a national minimum wage without regional variations will have a particularly serious effect on jobs and businesses in rural and coastal areas? Does the Minister agree with the association's view that the least that should be done to help those businesses is for benefits in kind to be taken into account in assessing compliance with the minimum wage?
 Mr. Ennis : I thank my hon. Friend for his reply. There is a great deal of anticipation about the establishment of a British academy of sport. When can we expect an announcement from him about the location and establishment of that facility?
5.  Mr. Ennis : What plans he has to help improve the quality of training for British athletes. [13431]
 Mr. Jeremy Corbyn  (Islington, North) : Does the Minister recognise that any analysis of the Gulf war or the Iran-Iraq war shows that one of the causes was the voracious appetite of arms salesmen around the world? Is he not concerned that the huge level of arms sales to Turkey over the past few years, the massive recent invasion of northern Iraq by Turkish armed forces and Turkish intentions in the region also pose a threat to peace? What is the Government's attitude towards the Turkish incursion in a neighbouring country?
 Mr. Jeremy Corbyn  (Islington, North) : As there is a huge debate about the question of an elected mayor, is not there a case for a separate question in the referendum, so that people can vote on an elected authority for London, which will be strongly supported by all, and on a directly elected mayor who is less accountable if he or she is not answerable to an assembly?
 Mr. Fitzpatrick : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for raising that point. It is clear that the attitude of the previous Government to local government was to reduce the resources offered to local government for providing decent services. Electoral registration has been one of the
 663
 Mr. Fitzpatrick : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for bringing that fact to my attention. I was not aware that that was the experience in the United States of America. Labour Members are certainly trying to reinvigorate our democracy by bringing new ideas and politics to the public's attention. We believe that having the referendum on the same day as people elect the 32 London local authorities will lead to an increase in the turnout, which cannot but be good for the future of London.
 Mr. Jim Fitzpatrick  (Poplar and Canning Town) : I add my congratulations to those who made maiden speeches: the hon. Member for Uxbridge (Mr. Randall), my hon. Friend the Member for Wimbledon (Mr. Casale) and, especially, my hon. Friend the Member for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound), whose speech, according to his own description of what previously emanated from that constituency, will soon be regarded as forgettable. Evening Standard Evening Standard
 Mr. Fitzpatrick : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for asking that question, which reinforces the point that I was making—the referendum and the directly elected mayor and assembly will provide an opportunity for us to reinvigorate and reinforce democracy. Contrary to the jibes that we have heard from the official Opposition that this measure is about weakening our democracy, Labour Members believe that it will improve and strengthen it in the way that the hon. Member for South Cambridgeshire requested.
 Mr. Fitzpatrick : I thank my hon. Friend for his helpful question. The matter of quangos has been effectively addressed in the debate. The case has been strongly made that democracy was weakened by the initiation of so many quangos to take the place of the GLC and the Inner London education authority. To return London to democratic control and government will address the deficit and improve the situation.
 Mr. Fitzpatrick : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for bringing those matters to the attention of the House. I recognise his expertise in the field. I am sure that those matters will be addressed.
 Mr. Fitzpatrick : The case for Ealing, North has been effectively made but we would be flying in the face of history were we to do something about Ealing, North now. 664
 Mr. Fitzpatrick : Too long.
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. You will recall that last week, I raised with you the refusal by the President of the Board of Trade to answer a written question from my right hon. Friend the Member for Wokingham (Mr. Redwood). On that occasion, I undertook to give you further details of the situation about which I was complaining and which I was inviting you to rule out of order. I wrote to you and you kindly replied to me indicating that you did not think that it was a matter in which you would become involved. 585 "Ministers should be as open as possible with Parliament, refusing to provide information only when disclosure would not be in the public interest". Interruption
 Mr. Bercow : Labour party funding?
 Mr. Burnett : When the Minister was in private practice and he first scrutinised the papers of a case and considered its merits, did he ever advise a client—other than those involved in personal injuries case—that he had a better than 75 per cent. chance of success?
32.  Mr. Gunnell : What representations he has received in respect of proposals to close the magistrates court in Morley. [13459]
 Mr. Gunnell : I thank the Minister for his reply. Nevertheless, I am sure that he will understand the concern of those Morley magistrates who have met me when he has read the report of Her Majesty's inspectors recommending that Leeds MCC consider the use of the outer courthouses and the response to it. Will he ensure that, in considering such issues, committees take account of the latest position, the investment that has gone into courts and the social consequences of any suggestion that such courts should be closed? Closure would have serious consequences, both for those who serve in the courts in Morley and for those who have to answer charges there.
 Mr. John Hayes  (South Holland and The Deepings) : Can my hon. Friend explain the precedent for the matter? Has this body typically consisted of entirely new Members or has it been more balanced?
 Mr. Hayes : Much has been said about the new Members, but we have heard nothing about them specifically. Mr. Deputy Speaker has told us that the motion concerns six individuals. Could we hear some more, at some length, about their curricula vitae?
 Mr. Healey : Does my hon. Friend recognise that tourism has a track record of low pay, which results in high staff turnover and low investment in training? Does he further recall the report that was commissioned and published by the previous Administration showing that 45 per cent. of full-time tourism staff—
 Mr. Healey : Thank you, Madam Speaker. I omitted to mention that in the earlier part of my question. 563
 Mr. Healey : The museum industry is a crucial part of the tourism industry—
 Mr. John McDonnell  (Hayes and Harlington) : In view of his remarks, may I suggest that the right hon. Gentleman apologises on behalf of his party to the people of London for denying them democratic government of their city for the past decade?
 Mr. McDonnell : My hon. Friend mentioned resources. Does he agree that, while there may be no second question on taxation, when we come to the main Bill we must tackle the crucial issue of the resourcing of the strategic authority to ensure that the powers to be exercised by the mayor and assembly can be exercised effectively through adequate resourcing? Will my hon. Friend join me in urging the Minister to consider issues such as virement between budgets in the authority and the potential for restoring business rates to London, or at least to a return to some formula which creates equity for London in terms of taxation and distribution across the country? The Minister should also consider change over time so that the authority will be adequately resourced.
 Mr. McDonnell : An apology is required because the Conservative party was given the opportunity, by all parties on the GLC, by Londoners and by many London organisations, to reform the GLC instead of abolishing it. However, in a pig-headed way and showing a cowardly lack of interest in London, Conservative Members marched through the Division Lobbies to obey the diktat of the then Prime Minister. That is what the hon. Gentleman should apologise for.
 Mr. McDonnell : The issue was indeed put to the electorate, because there were four by-elections at the end of the GLC, in which four GLC members stood down and risked the majority party's overall control. The London electorate returned them with resounding majorities, solely on the principle of opposition to the abolition of the GLC in 1986.
 Mr. McDonnell : Does my hon. Friend recall that, when the right hon. and learned Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke) was Home Secretary, he proposed that there should be a police authority for London, but he was rapidly replaced by—I cannot remember his constituency—Michael Howard?
 Mr. McDonnell : Following the election in 1983, was there a referendum so that Londoners could have a say about the abolition of the GLC? I doubt whether the hon. Gentleman could recall a referendum taking place.
 The Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Mr. John Prescott) : The Conservative Government abolished London's council.
 Mr. John Randall  (Uxbridge) : I am most grateful to have this opportunity to address the House for the first time. I want first to congratulate the hon. Members for Wimbledon (Mr. Casale) and for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound) on their maiden speeches. We look forward to many similar performances and may have to indulge the occasional rally from the hon. Member for Wimbledon. 628 629
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : It is difficult to do justice to the important theme that is fundamental to this debate after a maiden speech of such eloquence as that of the hon. Member for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound) and after the memorable maiden speeches of the hon. Member for Wimbledon (Mr. Casale) and my hon. Friend the Member for Uxbridge (Mr. Randall). I hope that the hon. Member for Wimbledon will not regard it as invidious if I do not follow his remarks but concentrate on those of my two geographic parliamentary neighbours. 634
 Mr. Wilkinson : I am grateful to the Minister. Perhaps those references were so cursory that they passed me by, or perhaps I was inattentive. I will take heart particularly if his Department will, as a consequence of his expression of good will, postpone the planning inquiry into the proposed Field End road recreation ground development from 6 to 9 January to a date more convenient to my constituents in March. I should be grateful if the Minister could consider that. 635 "why should this party"— "be afraid of democracy and of the ballot box?"—[ Official Report "What would the Mayor and Assembly do?" 636 637
 Mr. Wilkinson : My hon. Friend has generously allowed me to have a second bite of the cherry. He and I are at one in recognising the fact that particular borough interests should be represented on the assembly so that the views of constituents in those areas are put across and so that the mayor pursues policies that suit those interests. However, would it not be better if the representatives were elected directly by the borough electorates so that the voters may choose the people who are best able to represent them on a Londonwide forum? Even if the representatives fulfil that function indirectly, we must remember that they were elected originally to represent a particular ward at borough level, which is a different level of responsibility and may require different qualities.
 Mr. Wilkinson : The hon. Gentleman has alluded to regional government in the context of a Greater London
 613
 Mr. Wilkinson : There is no Member for Northolt. Northolt is in the constituency of one of my hon. Friends. I presume that the hon. Lady is referring to the Member for Ruislip-Northwood. If she concentrated more on the debate, and read less and gabbled less, she might get such points of detail right.
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : The hon. Gentleman rightly spoke about the importance of greater accountability to the people of London. How will that be achieved, as accountability to most people means accountability for money spent? There is no clear proposal for the assembly's tax, revenue or impost-raising powers—or, rather, for the budget to be raised by the mayor and approved by the assembly. Without that vital clarification, how on earth can accountability be achieved?
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : I support the Minister's statement. Can he assure us that his Department, which recognises the value of diplomacy in a crisis such as the present one, also recognises the importance of other means, to which he alluded, to underpin that diplomacy? May we, therefore, take it for granted that his Department will be making representations during the current defence review, to ensure that the Ministry of Defence in the United Kingdom has adequate military means to underpin our diplomacy wherever that may be necessary, to contain threats to peace and to contain dictators such as Saddam Hussein, who are engaged on programmes for the development and construction of weapons of mass destruction?
 Mr. Jonathan Sayeed  (Mid-Bedfordshire) : I thank the Minister for giving way; he has been generous with his time. He confidently asserted that the people and businesses of London want both an elected mayor and an elected assembly. If he is so confident of that, why will he not ask them separate questions?
 Mr. Hill : Drawing on his extensive experience of the transport system, does my hon. Friend agree that it is a massive indictment—it makes the case for a London authority—that in excess of 50,000 minicabs are plying their trade in this city without any form of regulation? That is precisely the role in which an authority for London could be engaged in dealing with the problems of our transport system.
 Mr. Hill : Is my hon. Friend aware that in the United States of America—a country notorious for the low turnout at elections and which has an extensive system of elected mayorse—lections for mayors invariably generate turnouts in excess of 50 per cent., which is far higher than turnouts in British local elections? Does that not also reinforce my hon. Friend's argument that the election of a mayor for London is a means of renewing democracy in this country?
 Mr. Keith Hill  (Streatham) : How does the hon. Gentleman known?
 Mr. Vaz : Will the Secretary of State join me in congratulating the Radio Authority on the way in which
 567
8.  Mr. Vaz : What proposals he has to increase the number of radio licences. [13434]
 Mr. Fisher : Having been brought up on "Children's Hour", Uncle Mac and "Dick Barton, Special Agent",
I agree absolutely with my hon. Friend that high-quality broadcasting, both radio and television, is important for children. It plays a major part in education, widens a child's horizons and sparks a child's imagination. Above all, it is fun.
 Mr. Fisher : The BBC charter requires the BBC to produce a large amount of high-quality, original programming and last year it produced 1,500 hours of children's programming of very high quality. I presume that the hon. Gentleman is referring to the Broadcasting Standards Council's report. Both he and I need to study that report in some detail, because some of the original headlines were not borne out by the detail of the report. Indeed, in the  Evening Standard 566
 Mr. Fisher : We have received representations from nine organisations and individuals in support of the award of an independent national radio licence for the provision of a children's radio service.
 Mr. Fisher : I think my hon. Friend makes his point extremely well and I agree with him.
 Mr. Fisher : No. The right hon. Gentleman probably refers to the Association of Independent Museums. I have received representations from Mr. Jonathan Bryant and others in that association. It is quite right that they should make those representations—and they have done so—to the Low Pay Commission. As the right hon. Gentleman knows, the Low Pay Commission is required to take into account the social as well as the economic impact of the report.
 Mr. Fisher : No. I have met the Museums and Galleries Commission and the Museums Association and seen their submissions to the Low Pay Commission. They have discussed the issues and are much more positive about the proposals than the right hon. Gentleman appears to be.
 The Minister for Arts (Mr. Mark Fisher) : No direct representations have been made to me, but I am aware that a number of organisations that represent museum interests have submitted written evidence to the Low Pay Commission in response to its invitation.
 Mr. Linton : The hon. Gentleman, in turn, talks as though he were still leader of Wandsworth council. But he is missing the point. There is no point in giving the people of London an unrealistic alternative that will not work.
 Mr. Linton : A meeting of borough leaders does not amount to an elected assembly.
 Mr. Martin Linton  (Battersea) : I support the Bill, which represents the second stage in the renewal of our constitution that the Government are putting into effect. Stage one was the referendums for Scotland and Wales; stage two opens the door to a Greater London authority, which will right the wrong done by the Conservative party in 1986. That party now supports the idea of a mayor, but seeks to deny the need for an assembly. That is no more than a fig leaf to hide the party's conversion and its admission that it was wrong before. 602 The Guardian
 Mr. Fabricant : The Secretary of State will be aware that one project being undertaken throughout London, as well as at London in my constituency, is the restoration of church bells. Is he aware of the difficulty being experienced throughout the London area and in other parts of the United Kingdom? English Heritage is insisting that church bell frames should also be maintained, even though 200 or 300-year-old frames are often not suitable
 560
 Mr. Michael Howard  (Folkestone and Hythe) : May I assure the Minister that he has the full support of Her Majesty's Opposition in the response that he has just given? Does he agree that the actions of Saddam Hussein amount to a naked challenge to the authority of the United Nations and therefore to the world community? Does he agree with Sandy Berger, the national security adviser to President Clinton, that Richard Butler, the Australian head of the inspection team, is a total professional, running the inspection operation in an entirely apolitical way?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Order. The hon. Gentleman knows that we do not refer to hon. Members in that way.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. It is very wrong for an hon. Member to enter the Chamber and pass in front of an hon. Member who is on his feet. I do not expect a response from the hon. Gentleman concerned, but I ask him to remember that ruling in future.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Order. The hon. Member for Croydon, Central (Mr. Davies) has twice used the word "your", which is not the correct language for this House. The hon. Gentleman who has just intervened, the hon. Member for Hayes and Harlington (Mr. McDonnell), must remember the names of constituencies. We do not use names of that kind in this House.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. Perhaps I can assist the hon. Gentleman. He has used the term, "you" several times, but I shall not be contesting or opposing anything.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman again used the word "you". I would be grateful if he would remember that that is not the terminology of the Chamber.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Lady is in perfect good order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. There is far too much conversation in the Chamber.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. All the right hon. Gentleman needs to worry about is that I am interested in what he is saying—and I am listening—and that he keeps to the point.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. There are many conversations going on in the Chamber. Hon. Members should be listening to the Minister.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Let me warn the right hon. Member that this is a very tight subject. He must stick to it. How many Members are in the Chamber is of no consequence to this debate. He knows the subject, he has risen to speak on it and he must speak to it.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The motion is only about the membership of the body, not its work load. The House is being asked to approve the membership and the individual names.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. As the hon. Gentleman knows, the matter is covered by an Act of the House. If he wants to know the work load and the commitment, he should read the Act. We are considering only the six names before us.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. It is not for the hon. Gentleman to direct another hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I stated earlier that who is or is not in the Chamber is absolutely irrelevant and does not matter. The motion is very tight—it refers to six names—and I do not want to hear about anything else from the hon. Gentleman or anyone else who cares to make a contribution.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Interventions must be very brief. The hon. Member for Spelthorne (Mr. Wilshire) is verging on speaking about the qualities of hon. Members. As far as I am concerned, each and every individual in the House is a caring individual, so let us hear no more about qualities.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Is this an intervention?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Of course, the motion is debatable. That is why I allowed the hon. Member for Spelthorne (Mr. Wilshire) to speak and that is why I am allowing the Leader of the House to speak. The right hon. Lady is in perfect order at the moment.
 Mr. Mike Hall  (Weaver Vale) : Get on with it.
 Mr. Ainger : Is my hon. Friend aware that that was the policy followed under the previous Administration? In my present constituency and my previous constituency, under the previous Administration more than 75 per cent. of our magistrates courts closed, but, at the same time, we saw no improvement whatsoever in the quality of those magistrates courts that remained. Will my hon. Friend give me and the House an assurance that, under his policy, while there will be rationalisation of magistrates courts, there will also be an improvement in existing magistrates courts to serve the best interests not only of the accused, but of victims and witnesses?
 Mr. Raynsford : The hon. Gentleman obviously was not listening when I replied to my hon. Friend the
 590
 Mr. Raynsford : As my hon. Friend has probably anticipated, I intend to cover that subject later in my speech. I hope that he will bear with me, because I will deal thoroughly with it later. "Londonwide responsibility for its own government is urgently required. We will make it happen."
 Mr. Raynsford : The hon. Gentleman questions accountability. I have always believed that it resulted from the democratic process, in which people stand for election because they believe that they have a contribution to make in terms of political and financial objectives. The people will ultimately judge their performance. That is the model which we are proposing. The Greater London authority will have powers concerning substantial sums of revenue that are currently discharged by other bodies—either central Government or other groupings. There will be a responsibility for finance, and democratic accountability will ensure that that finance is well used and prudently spent.
 Mr. Raynsford : No, I do not. I am surprised that the hon. Gentleman suggests that an indirect election is more democratic than a direct election. I have been studying very carefully patterns in other countries, including other European countries. One of the visits that I made was to talk to the mayor of Cologne, with whom I discussed why his city has decided to change its procedure from one of indirect election to direct election. If the hon. Gentleman studies trends throughout the world, he will see that that
 589
 Mr. Raynsford : I made a mistake in giving way to the hon. Gentleman, who clearly failed to listen to my responses to his hon. Friend the Member for Spelthorne (Mr. Wilshire) and my hon. Friend the Member for Islington, North. If he bears with me, I will reach that subject.
 Mr. Raynsford : I assure the hon. Gentleman that we have no proposals to amend the boundaries of London and that, if he has responded to the consultation, his views will be taken into account in our consideration of all the responses.
 Mr. Raynsford : My hon. Friend makes a valid point. Evening Standard "It is implausible that" "could … provide an effective balance to the mayoralty."
 Mr. Raynsford : The hon. Gentleman spoke for the previous Government before the general election, and he was wrong: he advocated the solution that I have just described, in which there would be no citywide authority, and opposed our proposals for such an authority. He should reflect on the fact that the people of London overwhelmingly rejected his party's view.
 Mr. Raynsford : Clearly, the right hon. Gentleman was not listening. He was keen to intervene, but not so keen to listen. My point is that the people of London—the private sector and the business community—all try to do their best despite the amateurish government framework. We know that the business community is committed to London and to our proposals. If the right hon. Gentleman reflected on the matter, he would realise that the Government speak for business in Britain, and his party is increasingly seen as an anti-business party.
 The Minister for London and Construction (Mr. Nick Raynsford) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time.
 Mr. Raynsford : No, I have given way twice. I ask the hon. Gentleman to linger a little. I will give way to him in due course. 588
 Mr. Raynsford : I am grateful to the right hon. Gentleman for one of his customary interventions in debates on London. I look forward to many more. I remind him, as one of the few survivors representing his party in London, that the swing was an overwhelming and decisive one, which took Labour into a large part of the capital city that had not previously been represented by Labour Members. Areas such as Wimbledon, Romford and Finchley now all benefit from Labour representation—and that is very good indeed for London.
 Mr. Raynsford : Yes. No decision has been reached on the form of election to be adopted. As I said, we have consulted and we are considering the responses. A decision will be reached and our conclusions set out in a White Paper to be published in March in good time, before the referendum in which the people of London will be asked to express their view on our proposals.
 Mr. Raynsford : I have already given way to the hon. Gentlemen and their questions were inappropriate and ill thought out. I intend to make a bit more progress. 593
 Mr. Raynsford : If the hon. Gentleman believes that, he is even more out of touch than the official Opposition party. Is he unaware of the extraordinary public interest in our proposals since they were published and of the amount of attention that is being given to who will be the first mayor of London? Can he, or any other Opposition Member, recall an occasion when a local government election, probably two years away, aroused so much interest that people were already queuing up to stand?
 Mr. Raynsford : The question is one on which we have taken considerable advice, and we have tried to ensure that it is framed so as to be as comprehensible as possible to the widest range of Londoners. As I am sure that the hon. Gentleman will appreciate, there can be confusion with the framing of questions, and if the electorate are not clear there will not be a satisfactory outcome. "There should be a simple first question: do you want a London-wide government elected by Londoners, yes or no? And there should be a simple second question: do you want that in a parliamentary style where they elect their leader or do you want directly to elect separately a mayor and an assembly?" 594
 Mr. Raynsford : As the hon. Gentleman will see from the relevant clause, the Secretary of State has powers to give direction to the boundary commission on the way in which it should approach its task. Those powers would not be used—I stress that—until there had been an affirmative vote in the referendum, by which stage the Government will have published their White Paper setting out their direct proposals. We will make clear our proposals for the election method and the constituencies.
 595
 Mr. Raynsford : I have answered the hon. Gentleman's question; he does not like the answer.
 Mr. Raynsford : Given that the right hon. Gentleman appears to be unhappy about the proposition that there should be a vote on the principle before the full detail is covered in legislation, can he tell the House whether he voted with his Government in favour of the paving Bill to abolish the GLC before the detailed, substantive legislation was published?
 Mr. Raynsford : Absolutely.
 Mr. Raynsford : Nonsense.
 Mr. Raynsford : The purpose of my letter to  The Times The Times
 Mr. Raynsford : In view of what the hon. Gentleman has said, will he make it clear whether he is advocating two questions in the referendum or more? The way in which he has presented the case for the Liberal Democrats' reasoned amendment implies questions on four issues: mayor; assembly; mayor and assembly; and tax-raising powers. Is he advocating all four?
 Mr. Raynsford : If the hon. Gentleman looks at  Hansard
 Mr. Raynsford : The right hon. Gentleman mentions  The Guardian "Mr Raynsford dismisses the Conservative suggestion that the mayor could answer to the current 33 London boroughs as a 'recipe for disaster'. Any mayor could simply buy off the boroughs by chucking goodies their way, bringing US-style pork-barrel politics to the capital. The minister is right".
 Mr. Raynsford : What about the White Paper?
4.  Mr. Evans : What representations he has received concerning the television licence. [13430]
 Mr. Evans : I am grateful for that reply. Since pensioners are still reeling from the news that they will get no support with their energy bills as regards the wind chill factor, does the Secretary of State agree with the early-day motion tabled by some of his colleagues just three years ago—some of whom are now Ministers—urging the Government to take urgent action to facilitate free television licences for pensioners? Is it not the case that Labour Members support pensioners when in opposition but betray their trust when in government?
11.  Mr. Baker : What plans he has to protect live coverage of key sporting events on terrestrial television. [13437]
 Mr. Baker : I thank the Secretary of State for that answer. Does he recognise that many people will feel that
 570
 Sir Norman Fowler : No. I will not give way again. Interruption
 Sir Norman Fowler : We have set out our position exactly in our amendment, and I am sorry that the
 597
 Sir Norman Fowler  (Sutton Coldfield) : I beg to move, To leave out from "That" to the end of the Question, and to add instead thereof:
 "this House declines to give a Second Reading to the Greater London Authority (Referendum) Bill because it fails to provide for Londoners to be consulted on proposals for an Assembly and for a directly elected Mayor separately." 596
 Sir Norman Fowler : I do not apologise for that. There was overwhelming public support for the abolition of the Greater London council. Labour Members need to decide whether they support the Greater London authority, as set out in the Green Paper, or restoration of the GLC. I am not sure whether the Minister for Sport has been fired but he is currently residing on the Back Benches.
 Sir Norman Fowler : I think that I heard the hon. Gentleman say that he was being certified.
 Sir Norman Fowler : I am happy to give way to the Labour party's candidate for the mayor of London.
 Sir Norman Fowler : I should remind the Minister that the White Paper refers to the Government's proposals. I also remind him that we still work within a system according to which Parliament decides, not the Government—he might explain that to the Minister for the Regions, Regeneration and Planning.
 Sir Norman Fowler : I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman obviously has great difficulty in understanding that the Government should have consulted on their propositions before holding the referendum. The specific Act of Parliament is the only conclusive means of providing the necessary answers, but we will not have it, let alone the White Paper, before the referendum in May. The Minister said as much. There is no way that that Act will be ready then.
 Sir Norman Fowler : I probably did and I have absolutely no regrets. "electors vote not for an individual candidate but for a party which provides a list of candidates which are ranked in the order the party wishes". 598
 Sir Norman Fowler : That is the most extraordinary quotation, even by the Minister's standards, because whose words are followed by a dash and the words:
 "but he should make that argument in a campaign." The Guardian 601
 Sir Norman Fowler : Yes. It is all very well for the Minister to laugh, but it is a matter of great importance to anyone who lives in London and is policed by the Metropolitan police.
 Sir Norman Fowler : No. I will not give way.
 Sir Norman Fowler : I have just said that I will not give way again. "made up of an elected mayor and a separately elected assembly". Evening Standard The Times "Two distinct issues require two different questions". 600 The Guardian The Guardian
 Mr. Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : Does my hon. Friend accept that some new Members take the view that there is a world of difference between a fresh view and a view without foundation, and that many of us would not wish to see too many new Members on the Committee?
 Mr. Paul Burstow  (Sutton and Cheam) : Given that the proposed question is very much a like-it-or-lump-it question, does the Minister agree that there is a danger that it will fail to enthuse and engage the electorate in London in a genuine debate, and that, as a consequence, the turnout will be too low?
 Mr. Peter Brooke  (Cities of London and Westminster) : I am sure that the Minister will agree that a whole series of factors could be attributed to the differential swing, including the fact that, in London, there was a large differential swing against the Labour party in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
 Mr. Peter Brooke  (Cities of London and Westminster) : I begin with an apology. Admirers of the Government are continually impressed by the Government's finesse, and the subject of tonight's debate has been tabled on the same night as the Lord Mayor's banquet. Some people have suggested to me that that was prompted by a conspiracy. Generous soul that I am, I assumed that it was more likely to be due to that alternative theory which I cannot utter, since we are still a long way from the watershed and this is a family programme. I do not blame the Government, but they have set me something of a dilemma in that I owe an obligation to my constituents in both regards. I therefore ask for the House's forgiveness if I disappear some time after my speech and read later about how the debate ended. 604 "Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion", 605 "If you open that Pandora's Box you never know what Trojan `orses will jump out", 606 "In England the entire population has been thrown into panic."
 Mr. Peter Luff  (Mid-Worcestershire) : Is my hon. Friend aware that three of the trustees during the last Parliament were Privy Counsellors, all of them distinguished Members with a long record of service? This is a departure from the precedent of the last Parliament, and my hon. Friend is right to insist on an explanation from the Government.
 The Minister without Portfolio (Mr. Peter Mandelson) : In addition to the road improvements under way, there will be an excellent public transport network offering visitors a variety of ways to travel to the millennium experience, including new river boat services and the new Jubilee line extension. These developments will be an important legacy for our investment and I am sure that they will be welcomed by the whole House.
 Mr. Mandelson : That is exactly what the Deputy Prime Minister has in mind. I am glad to be able to tell the hon. Gentleman that my right hon. Friend is making considerable progress in developing river services and the new millennium pier at the Greenwich peninsula, as well as investing in other piers along the Thames back from the Greenwich peninsula. I stress that they will be a permanent, important legacy for the Thames for the entirety of London. That will not be the only important legacy, but it will be a very significant one flowing from our investment in the millennium experience.
 Mr. Mandelson : We expect 1 million people to travel by boat from central London using new pier and river services and park-and-sail sites to the east of the site. Decisions on temporary park-and-sail facilities are expected in December. Five applications with Greenwich, Barking and the London Docklands development corporation have already been lodged. I am very pleased to say that the New Millennium Experience Company and the Cross-River Partnership, working closely together, are making sure that we bring about this increased use of the Thames as part of the Deputy Prime Minister's Thames 2000 initiative.
 Mr. Mandelson : It will leave ample capacity in terms of the transport infrastructure that I have described.
 Mr. Mandelson : Our single most important objective is to ensure that when people come to Greenwich—we are expecting 12 million visitors in 2000—they have a once-in-a-lifetime experience, full of excitement and enjoyment, without delay or frustration in travelling to and moving around the millennium dome. That is why the New Millennium Experience Company has developed an operational plan that, through pre-booking of tickets, will guarantee access to attractions in the dome, ensure minimal queuing for the attractions and—[ Interruption
 Mr. Mandelson : The right hon. Gentleman is not correct. The British museum attracts 6 million visitors every year. The estimate of 12 million visits to the millennium experience is based on industry projections and poll findings. An NOP poll a year ago, when the future of the project was highly uncertain, showed that a third of the population were interested in visiting. A Gallup poll for  The Daily Telegraph 572
 Mr. Pike : The forest of Burnley scheme has overwhelming support in my constituency, but it could not have gone ahead without millennium funding. Will not such schemes change the country positively for the forthcoming millennium?
1.  Mr. Pike : What the legacy of the millennium projects will be in London and the regions. [13426]
 Mr. Woolas : I thank the Minister for that answer and for the reply that I received earlier by letter. Do the Government recognise the many benefits, both educational and in general, that children receive from radio broadcasting for them?
6.  Mr. Woolas : What representations he has received on proposals for a children's radio channel; and if he will make a statement. [13432]
 The Minister for the Regions, Regeneration and Planning (Mr. Richard Caborn) : It is called consultation.
 Mr. Ottaway : The mistaken belief is beginning to emerge that the Conservative party does not believe in an assembly. We favour an assembly of borough leaders, not a directly elected assembly. That is quite different from the claim that we do not want an assembly at all.
 Mr. Ottaway : Is not the hon. Gentleman making a very good argument for a constituency-based assembly?
 Mr. Ottaway : Fair enough; but he also said that he did not want the assemblymen to fight for their own patch. If so, I repeat: the Minister simply wants people's votes, but thereafter he does not want to hear any more from them.
 Mr. Ottaway : I will not give way at this point.
 Mr. Ottaway : No, I am short of time. 668 The Guardian "to deny them"— "any expression on the ballot seems peculiar. After all, the whole point of a referendum is to allow all the people their say." 669
 Mr. Ottaway : The Prime Minister insists that we are in a giving age, so why does not he give the people of London a two-question referendum? Anything less would be a deliberate and calculated slap in the face of democracy. Two simple, straightforward questions that would reveal the true views of Londoners about their future—that is all it would take.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Ottaway : Then the Minister let the cat out of the bag—he could not contain himself—and went even further. He said that he wanted the authority to think strategically—
 Mr. Ottaway : Yes, they have. The hon. Member for Ealing, North wanted the GLC back, even though the Green Paper was against that. The hon. Member for Harrow, East (Mr. McNulty) wanted health and education to be run by the proposed authority. I could list many more examples. 667 The Times
 Mr. Ottaway : I shall come to that in a minute. [Interruption.] "This is not an exercise in bringing back the Greater London Council",
 Mr. Ottaway : I do not lament the departure of the old GLC any more than the hon. Gentleman's own party does and I will not apologise for the abolition of what was a dinosaur running out of control. 666
 Mr. Richard Ottaway  (Croydon, South) : I congratulate the three hon. Members who made their maiden speeches. 665 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Ottaway : Can the Minister therefore confirm that first past the post remains an option?
 Mr. Richard Ottaway  (Croydon, South) : I am obliged to the Minister for giving way. He referred to part II of the Bill and the electoral commission. What the Bill does not mention is the method of election. How will the commission know on which basis it is drawing its conclusions?
 Mr. Spring : What does the right hon. Gentleman think will be the impact of the European Commission's social chapter proposal, which we cannot now veto, to impose works councils on small and medium-sized businesses? Does he not recognise that that, coupled with the introduction of the minimum wage, will destroy the viability of our tourism industry, destroy jobs now and destroy the ability of this important industry to create jobs in future?
 Mr. Maclennan : Bearing in mind the fact that the previous Government presided over a decline in the vote
 569
 Mr. Maclennan rose
 Mr. Roger Casale  (Wimbledon) : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me the opportunity to make my maiden speech. It is a great honour to be elected to represent and serve the people of Wimbledon. Wimbledon, like London—of which it forms an integral part—has an international reputation and a strong sense of identity and civic pride. It is also my home town. I was born in Wimbledon, I live in Wimbledon and I went to school in Wimbledon, and it is a great privilege to be elected to serve the community of which I am a part. 626 627
 Mr. Gale : Will the right hon. Gentleman confirm the information that was given to me by his Minister for Arts to the effect that his party has no plans whatever to consider concessionary television licences—having given the impression in opposition that they would—until at least 2002? Is he not letting pensioners down flat?
 Mr. Simon Hughes : May I add to the pressure on the Minister to ensure that river transport not only is provided for the millennium but becomes part of the infrastructure of London transport for visitors, commuters and residents alike, integrated with the other public transport systems and at a price that ordinary people can afford?
 Mr. Simon Hughes : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Hughes : That will come later.
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Will you give a ruling on a matter concerning the Bill that we are about to discuss? A similar matter also appeared in the Scottish and Welsh referendum Bills. Clause 1 relates to a question on Government proposals to be put in a referendum. As yet, we have no such proposals, as they are to be included in the White Paper. Is it appropriate that we should debate legislation on proposals before we know what those proposals are?
 Mr. Simon Hughes indicated dissent.
 Mr. Simon Hughes : The Minister knows that this is one of the most controversial areas of the Government's proposals and that the leader in very nearly every European capital city is chosen from its assembly, not elected separately. Does he accept that there are very strong arguments—even if he might have been persuaded not to agree with them—that a directly elected mayor is a more dangerous political animal and less democratic than one chosen by a democratic assembly, as in this Parliament?
 Mr. Simon Hughes : The hon. Gentleman puts a perfectly reasonable case, and I accept his good faith. I hope that he accepts that the argument—put differently by different parties—for having two questions on the central issue of structure is that the proposal in the Labour manifesto concerned the structure. The structure includes the novelty of a directly elected mayor. Matters such as tax-varying powers can be dealt with when we examine the Bill next year. Those views are put in equally good faith and I am sure that he accepts that there is an equally valid argument for them and for having two questions rather than one.
 Mr. Simon Hughes : I want to put one matter on the record. I have a copy of the Labour manifesto in front of
 617
 Mr. Hughes : That is a perfectly proper question.
 Mr. Simon Hughes : Not in the manifesto.
 Mr. Hughes : I was sure that the studios would not be in the area that the hon. Gentleman represents. I do not know what his pedigree is, and in the light of what he said, it is probably inappropriate to ask, but there may be a bit of the Ezra Pound in him, too. If there are others who, like me—I say this with no disrespect—had never heard of the hon. Gentleman before today, we have now all heard of him and from him, and if he goes on like that. we shall certainly look forward to hearing from him again. 611
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : I shall start conventionally by congratulating the hon. Member for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound) on his turn. He waited patiently for it, but when it came, it was Ealing studios—I do not know which constituency they are in—brought to the House of Commons.
 Mr. Hughes : I do not want to delay the House with a long answer. We want two questions, each allowing the answers yes or no. The first is whether there should be directly elected regional government for London. The second is whether, in addition to an assembly, there
 616
 Mr. Hughes : That is a perfectly good question, to which I shall return later. For now, the short answer—I do not wish the hon. Gentleman to think that I am avoiding the issue—is that Liberal Democrats do indeed believe that regional government should have tax-varying powers. However, because regional government would receive the proportion of national income that is currently handed from Whitehall to the regions, it would not add to total income tax, but would simply be a proportion of the total tax that would then be collected regionally. It would be part of the whole, the remainder of which would be collected nationally. There need be no net increase in taxation—in fact, there could be less taxation. However, we believe that there should be tax-varying powers, just as there should be in Wales and Scotland. As a postscript, I note that the Government argue that there should be tax-varying powers in Scotland and also state that income tax is the fairest form of taxation. I shall give the hon. Member for Ruislip-Northwood (Mr. Wilkinson) a free copy of our full proposals, and invite him to read them. 614 615
 Mr. Hughes : The hon. Member for Barking (Ms Hodge) asks a perfectly proper question, and I shall deal with both parts of it. First, as there is no correct answer to the question of how London should be governed, Labour Members—like other hon. Members—should be free to exercise their differing views. I hope that the hon. Lady supports that principle. I hope that she therefore will not condone any strong-arm tendency aimed at ensuring that all Labour Members vote the same way, regardless of their views, or do not vote if they dissent from the official line. 612
 Mr. Hughes : That is why, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I immediately referred to the hon. Member for Brent, East in his constituency context. The earlier question was in inverted commas. The hon. Gentleman, like many hon. Members on both sides, is concerned not about the general thrust of the Government's policy, but about some of the detail. I hope that, as the Bill proceeds through its stages, we shall hear all voices. I hope that Labour Members who do not share Front Benchers' views will be allowed to vote accordingly. If that occurs, there is at least a chance of the result beginning to reflect the real views of all hon. Members in the House.
 Mr. Pound : Ealing studios are in Ealing, Southall.
 Mr. Stephen Pound  (Ealing, North) : Mr. Deputy Speaker, thank you very much for calling me and allowing me the opportunity finally to make my maiden speech. 607 608 609 
 "Where smoothly glides the bicycle And softly flows the Brent, And a gentle gale from Perivale Sends up the hayfield scent." 610
 Mr. Pound : What about Ealing, North?
 Mr. Stephen Twigg : In the light of the argument that my hon. Friend is pursuing, will he comment on the
 662
 Mr. Twigg : I respect that, but the Liberal Democrat reasoned amendment suggested that three areas could be the subject for questions. The hon. Gentleman has, in good faith, argued that revenue-raising powers for the assembly are a major question that could be put to the people in a referendum. We must strike a balance. In Britain, the referendum is a constitutional novelty: it is not a device used often and we are still feeling our way. It is better to have had a proper debate in the run-up to the general election, which is what started the Green Paper process, continuing through to the publication of the White Paper in the spring. We shall then have a vote on the principle of what the Government seek, and assuming a yes vote, we can then have a full and proper deliberative discussion in this House and in the other place on the legislation. 633
 Mr. Stephen Twigg  (Enfield, Southgate) : It is a great pleasure to speak after the maiden speech of the hon. Member for Uxbridge (Mr. Randall). As he said, many of us—I imagine almost all the Labour Members here—had the pleasure of visiting what is now his constituency during the by-election campaign in July. I have a particular pleasure in congratulating him on his maiden speech because I also represent a constituency where many people feel that they are a part of Middlesex, and also which is at the end of the Piccadilly line although I am at the other end. I congratulate the hon. Gentleman on his speech. I also congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound), who gave
 630 "the rash commitments that Labour Members have made about exhuming the dinosaurs and putting them on a life support machine will be a source of grave embarrassment to them and to their party because people will have seen that those bodies were irrelevant, unnecessary and extravagant and a party that pledges to bring them back will have disastrous election results."—[ Official Report 631 "I suspect that the Government"— "with their very big majority, may succeed in laying the body politic of the Greater London Council to rest, but I fear that its spectre will rise to haunt us."—[ Official Report 632
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Is there not a point of principle for the House of Commons? Is not the implication of the reply to the private notice question by my hon. Friend the Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office that force could be used? Even if a British force is not committed, we as a country are endorsing the use of force. Is it not, therefore, right for the House of Commons at least to have the opportunity to express a view on the background to a complex situation, which was set out in the questions and by my hon. Friend the Minister? Would you, Madam Speaker, therefore hear an application for a debate on the dangerous situation in Iraq under Standing Order No. 24?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : May I plead with my hon. Friends to be extremely cautious before endorsing
 579
 Mr. Rowlands : Despite some useful changes in the regulations governing television licence fees for elderly people, I must tell my right hon. Friend that there are a huge number of anomalies in the scheme. If nothing else, will he look at those anomalies, which need to be addressed because they are causing great resentment and irritation?
 Mr. Yeo : In view of Labour's commitment to open government, does the Secretary of State agree that it would be helpful to all concerned if any future applicant for a radio licence were required to state in public at the time of the application whether he was a financial donor of the Labour party?
 Mr. Yeo : As the Government's proposals are likely to result in a substantial increase in business for the insurance industry, will the Minister tell the House with which insurance companies he has had discussions about those proposals and how many of them were financial contributors to the Labour party?
34.  Mr. Yeo : What recent representations he has received regarding the availability of legal aid. [13461]
 Mr. Tom Brake  (Carshalton and Wallington) : The hon. Member for Uxbridge (Mr. Randall), who is no longer in the Chamber, represents a constituency that I, too, have visited. I wonder whether anyone in the Chamber has not visited it, in fact. He said in his maiden speech today that he was a bearded nonentity. That is certainly not true. Within seconds of his starting his maiden speech, many of his hon. Friends had come into the Chamber to support him. He is lucky to be able to wear a beard; I understand that beards are frowned on in the Labour party these days—although I can spot one on the Labour Back Benches this evening. 641 "strategic authority and a mayor … will speak up for the needs of the city and plan its future".
 Mr. Brake : Will the hon. Gentleman explain why he believes that if the London assembly were given the powers of the Government office for London or of quangos, it would inevitably—as he has stressed on several occasions—take powers away from local government?
 Mr. Tom Clarke : Tourism, with its enormous potential for employment generation, is well placed to play a key role in the new deal/welfare-to-work programme. Almost 50 leading employers and trade bodies in tourism, hospitality and leisure have already indicated strong interest in the programme.
 Mr. Clarke : The Government are preparing to take a number of steps, including a conference on 24 November, organised by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State and involving the Department for Education and Employment and the British Hospitality Association, to consider these matters. Almost 50 employers and trade bodies have expressed an interest in working with the Department to achieve that objective.
 Mr. Clarke : I welcome the hon. Gentleman to his new post and look forward to further exchanges. I hope that, on future occasions, he will get his facts right. He does not speak for the industry when he deplores the social chapter, and he does not speak for the British people either. The Labour party's policies were endorsed by the British people and we intend to implement them. We do so in the knowledge that we are attempting to ensure proper job motivation, proper careers, especially for young people, and the removal of sweatshop conditions that the industry itself deplores. I recommend the hon. Gentleman to make some of the visits that I have made over the past six months in every part of the country. He will hear from people such as Jerry Walden, who wrote just a few weeks ago from the New Commercial inn in Axminster, Devon. He said—his views are important—
 "the long-term future of our industry is dependent on a better paid, better cared for, better trained and more professional workforce".
 Mr. Clarke : That process is already going on. I agree with my hon. Friend, who rightly referred to Winston Churchill. One of the problems about the Conservative party is that it not only does not know where it is going—it does not know where it is coming from. The minimum wage has been supported by Winston Churchill, by Harold Macmillan, by the Father of the House, the right hon. Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup (Sir E. Heath), and, much more important, by people such as John Scott, the managing director of the Frere Jacques restaurant in Kingston, Surrey, who said:
 "this is not about altruism. It makes sound business sense to pay high wages because I get good-quality, highly motivated people."
 Mr. Clarke : The hon. Gentleman should give the Government credit for honouring their election pledges: first, to commit 'themselves to a minimum wage; secondly, to set up the Low Pay Commission; and, thirdly, to ensure that the commission recognised the issues faced by the tourism industry. The hon. Gentleman referred specifically to the British Hospitality Association. I remind him of the views of the president of that association, Garry Hawkes. Referring to a survey showing that 84 per cent. of hospitality staff and 65 per cent. of their employers supported a statutory minimum wage, he said:
 "this research shows there is a broad acceptance of the minimum wage issue now. This industry is not against it, but employers want it to be set at a realistic level".
 The Minister for Film and Tourism (Mr. Tom Clarke) : I have received representations from a number of leading figures in the tourism and hospitality industry, and have taken careful note of the views expressed.
 Mr. Clarke : My hon. Friend is entirely right. The tourism, hospitality and leisure industry employs 1.7 million people. It has a great future, but not one based on exploitation, poor wages or lack of training. That is one of the many reasons why the Conservatives are in opposition and we are in government.
 Mr. Baldry : The Secretary of State will be aware that national lottery funding is to be used for the British academy of sport. Any hon. Member who listened to the Minister for Sport's reply could have drawn the reasonable inference that there was to be an announcement of the winner this Friday, but that will clearly not happen. It should be made clear that the announcement on Friday will be of the criteria by which national lottery bids could be judged.
 The Minister for Sport (Mr. Tony Banks) : We are committed to improving the quality of training both through the development of a British academy of sport, which will provide our athletes with the best training facilities possible, and the English Sports Council's world-class performance programme, which provides lottery support to our elite athletes.
 Mr. Banks : There will be an announcement on Friday.
 Mr. Banks : Those sports were never going to be excluded. There has been considerable misunderstanding over the question.  [Interruption.] 565
 Mr. Banks : As far as I am aware, there is no question of Labour party funding—more' s the pity.
 Mr. Banks : I do, indeed, listen, and since I became Minister for Sport, I have opened the special Olympic games at Portsmouth, the world blind sailing championships at Weymouth and the British disabled water-skiing facility at Heron lake. I have attended disabled rugby, volleyball, cricket, football, skiing and archery. [ Interruption.
 Mr. Banks : I hope that the hon. Gentleman is aware that I take a close personal interest in that subject. We are determined to promote sport for people with disabilities. It is our aim to maximise opportunity for all people, no matter what their ability.
 The Minister for Sport (Mr. Tony Banks) : I have come to listen to the right hon. Gentleman's speech. I should be certified.
 Mr. Tony Benn  (Chesterfield) : In considering the options that lie before the Government, will the Minister take into account the fact that independent sources suggest that more than half a million children under five have died in Iraq as a direct result of the sanctions? Those people have no power whatever to topple President Saddam
 580
 Mr. Tony Colman  (Putney) : We have heard three excellent maiden speeches this evening. The hon. Member for Uxbridge (Mr. Randall) said that he was particularly interested in wildlife and conservation. I look forward to hearing him speak on that subject. He will welcome the fact that, as the consultation document points out, one of the key roles of the new authority will be ensuring sustainability for London in the 21st century. I welcome him as a fellow business man. I am pleased to see him swell the ranks on both sides of hon. Members with such backgrounds. "It may be a trail-blazing referendum to include so many separate questions." 652
 Mr. Colman : Indeed. 653 "However, the existing framework copes well in the limited areas where co-ordination is needed. Many issues (e.g. noise and air quality) are not peculiar to London, and it is sufficient for national arrangements and powers to apply." "it is difficult to identify what added value could conceivably be supplied by a GLA. The powers are mainly national ones applied locally by the boroughs. Any London co-ordination is already handled by the ALG". "The main London-wide issue, aircraft noise, is handled through the land-use planning framework, as currently exemplified by the public enquiry on the proposed Terminal 5 at Heathrow." 654 "However, I do not believe health is a desirable function for any GLA, either at the strategic or operational level."
 Mr. McNulty : They would even lose that.
 Mr. McNulty : My hon. Friend is entirely right. It also seems that, in some quarters, there is a little difficulty with coming to terms with the results in London last May. 619
 Mr. Tony McNulty  (Harrow, East) : If other parties amend the Government's legislation in the other place, we should turn that amendment over in this place and go to the people with the mandate that we secured on 1 May. I find it absurd to rely on unelected people in the other place to pursue supposedly democratic means. That is the background to much of the debate. "The Metropolitan Police Service welcomes the prospect of a Mayor, an elected assembly for London and the consequent formation of a properly constituted police authority."
 Mr. McNulty : Indeed, we did. We put our proposals to the people of London on 1 May and secured record support in London for our troubles. Now we are told by the Conservatives, "We want a mayor, but no assembly. We got only 1 million votes compared to Labour's almost 2 million, but that does not matter six months on. That is democratic." We are told by the Liberal Democrats, "We want an assembly, but not a mayor. We got only 600,000 votes compared to Labour's almost 2 million in London, but that does not matter six months on."
 Mr. McNulty : In all the subsequent discussions throughout the campaign, especially in London, we said clearly that the mayor and the assembly were a single package. The proposals were not a pick-and-mix, a portfolio or ones that people could take some of and not the rest. Far from the proposals being timid, they are radical and previously unheard of in this country, as my hon. Friends have said. Putting the package—not the detail—to the people on I May and saying that we would hold a referendum on it, far from being insulting or timid, gives the people of London a voice, far more than would be the case under the Opposition's proposals.
 Mr. McNulty : I hope that the hon. Gentleman enjoyed that intervention. I will not give way to him again if that is the best he can do. "The minority parties … favour different models for … governance … and would wish the ballot paper to contain separate questions on the Mayor and the Assembly." 618
 Mr. McNulty : No. The hon. Gentleman has either misheard or misconstrued my remarks. One of the forms of proportional representation may address my concern. I am not saying that Harrow desperately needs its own separate member of the assembly or that the mayor must come from Harrow, in order for Harrow, outer London and suburban London to have a voice. 620
 Mr. McNulty : I apologise, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and I am grateful for your clarification.
 Mrs. Taylor : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. As I was saying, I have looked at the list of those nominated from the Labour Benches and have been extremely impressed by the expertise of the new Members whom
 683
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : Conservative Members' contributions have been extremely interesting. They are obviously preparing to be former Members, or they would not be so interested in the provisions of the pension fund.
 Mrs. Dunwoody : I hope that my hon. Friend will bear it in mind that such issues must be looked at in a broad and tolerant way because we are dealing with people's lives. Two doctors in my constituency have been refused permission to bring in their mother on the basis that ladies aged 67 are not capable of work. I feel therefore that perhaps a little enlightenment in some of those Departments would not go amiss.
 Mrs. Margaret Ewing  (Moray) : The Minister said correctly that diplomatic channels are the best means of resolving the critical problem facing us. Will he confirm whether additional intermediaries are being used in the negotiation process with Saddam Hussein? Will the Minister advise the House of the attitude of the NATO alliance in the context of his assertion that no option will be ruled out? Will he also reassure hon. Members like me who represent constituencies where Tornados are based? The 12th squadron from Lossiemouth is currently engaged in surveillance and peacekeeping operations and is expected to return home by the end of the month. What reassurance can I provide to my constituents that they need not fear for the fate of their husbands and for all those working on Tornados?
 Ms Hodge : I am certainly not a candidate. Will the right hon. Gentleman tell the House whether he will join the Government in recommending to the people of London that they should support the referendum? Yes or no?
 Ms Hodge rose
 Ms Hodge rose
 Ms Margaret Hodge  (Barking) : Does the Minister agree that the Government's action in holding a referendum distinguishes us clearly from the action of the previous Government, who abolished the Greater London council without asking the people of London for their views?
 Ms Hodge rose
 Ms Hodge : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Ms Hodge : Does my hon. Friend agree that the Opposition's obsession about whether there should be one or two questions simply reflects their unease with the fact that the vast majority of Londoners support our proposals? They do not want to admit that.
 Ms Hodge : The hon. Gentleman suggested that there are divisions on Labour Benches on this issue. It is well known that divisions exist within his party as to whether there should be a directly elected mayor for London. If his amendment fails, what will he recommend to his hon. Friends regarding the referendum? Will he recommend that they support the Government on the referendum issue?
1.  Mrs. Virginia Bottomley : What plans he has to reform the national lottery. [13436]
 Mrs. Bottomley : Has the Secretary of State seen the comments from Lord Rothschild who. like others,
 568
 Angela Smith  (Basildon) : I wish to raise a matter connected with Clacton magistrates court, but first I should declare that my husband is a magistrate in Essex. Is my hon. Friend aware that there was a proposal in 1995 to refurbish Clacton court, which was turned down by the previous Government? Does he agree that it would be better to have refurbished the court then than to see it close now?
 Ann Clwyd  (Cynon Valley) : I congratulate my hon. Friend on his strong words on the issue. Will he remind the shadow Foreign Secretary that the right hon. and learned Gentleman was a member of the previous Government, who helped to arm Saddam Hussein, and that many of the components for the weapons of mass destruction were supplied to him during that time? 581
 The Minister for Transport in London (Ms Glenda Jackson) : As other hon. Members have said, we have been privileged to listen to three maiden speeches today. The speech by my hon. Friend the Member for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound) was notable for both its wit and its entertainment value. While bewailing the historic lack of great people, buildings and events in his constituency, he happily heralded a better future for his constituents with a strategic authority of the kind proposed by the Government. His speech was hailed as being witty in the extreme, while the speeches by the hon. Member for Croydon, South (Mr. Ottaway), the right hon. Member for Sutton Coldfield (Sir N. Fowler) and the hon. Member for South Cambridgeshire (Mr. Lansley) win tonight's comedy cup. 670 " mayor and a separately elected assembly". [Interruption.]
 Ms Jackson : Our proposal is that we should learn from the experience in other world cities, draw on the best that is on offer and look carefully at what London needs. 671
 Ms Jackson : I thank the hon. Member for Ruislip-Northwood (Mr. Wilkinson) for demonstrating that he is always one of the most courteous hon. Members. He said that my hon. Friend the Minister for London and Construction had not mentioned a strategic transport authority. My hon. Friend certainly did so. He referred to the need for a strategic transport authority, a need reiterated from direct practical experience by my hon. Friend the Member for Eltham (Mr. Efford). My hon. Friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Bow (Ms King) emphasised the point in a telling intervention. 672
 Ms Ryan : Does my hon. Friend agree that we need to ensure that all Londoners are on the electoral roll? That is not currently the case. In the borough of Enfield, we have already held three consultations on the London strategic authority Green Paper, with an enormous positive response. Before entering the House, I was deputy leader in Barnet. I disagree with the hon. Member for Chipping Barnet (Sir S. Chapman). There was not universal approval by any means in Barnet for the abolition of the Greater London council, and there would certainly be enthusiasm for it now. I wonder whether the situation is much the same in my hon. Friend's neck of the London woods.
 Ms Joan Ryan  (Enfield, North) : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Ms Karen Buck  (Regent's Park and Kensington, North) : I congratulate the hon. Members who have made their maiden speeches in this debate. I am grateful to the hon. Member for Uxbridge (Mr. Randall) for having given me the opportunity to acquaint myself with large areas of his constituency during the wettest July since 1853. I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Wimbledon (Mr. Casale) on making a speech that demonstrated his commitment to his constituency—the scale of our victory there showed the strength of support for our policies in London, as in Britain as a whole. 638 639 "should establish strong, clear and recognised channels for consulting stakeholders, experts and service users, including the youth sector". 640
 Ms Oona King  (Bethnal Green and Bow) : Is it not astonishing that the amount of time wasted daily by traffic congestion on the M25 and the M3 is equivalent to 300 years' working time? I am not sure whether I believe that statistic, but would my hon. Friend care to comment on it?
 Rev. Martin Smyth  (Belfast, South) : I support the Minister's measured tones. I regret that some hon. Members may, on humanitarian grounds, give succour to one of the most despotic creatures that the world has
 583
 Rev. Martin Smyth : I thank the Secretary of State for the money that has already been allocated to Northern Ireland projects. Will he reconsider the problem of shortfall in the satellite for the sports academy, which is so vital to our heritage? We have been boxing above our weight over the years, as a small community. It would be worse if we did not have that facility to match the others.
 Sir Paul Beresford  (Mole Valley) : The Minister is talking about having a strong mayor, fighting for London,
 592
 Sir Paul Beresford rose
 Sir Paul Beresford : The hon. Gentleman is talking as if he still wrote for  The Guardian 603
 Sir Robert Smith  (West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine) : Surely the Government's other role is in deciding on the available resources. As my hon. Friend the Member for Colchester (Mr. Russell) has already said, the savings that the Government have got from the magistrates courts are being wasted in the policing budget. Perhaps the hon. Gentleman should be looking at a more global accounting system.
 Sir Sydney Chapman : London should be different because London is different. In London, the local planning authority is the London borough. I am not an expert on all local authorities outside London, but most local authorities in the counties are smaller, with smaller populations, and do not have the facilities that the big counties have. In London, the 32 London boroughs already have important responsibilities—for example, for education—that local district councils do not have. [Interruption.] 625 "made up of an elected mayor and a separately elected assembly".
 Sir Sydney Chapman  (Chipping Barnet) : As the first Conservative to speak following the maiden speech of the hon. Member for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound), may I associate myself and my colleagues with the tributes to that speech? The hon. Gentleman made an entertaining, witty speech, full of humility for his constituency. I have two comments. First, Ealing, North and its new Member have gained in stature as a result of his speech. Secondly, referring to his quotation from John Betjeman, I find Ealing, North today a more attractive place than it was yesteryear, if only because I suffer from hay fever very badly and am therefore reassured that I will no longer smell the scent of the hay if I visit that constituency. 621 The Times The London Times 622
 Sir Sydney Chapman : I said that that was my perception. We have heard many perceptions and judgments from Labour Members and surely I should be allowed to describe mine. My constituents may vote yes in a referendum, depending on what is asked and how many questions are put, but they will be more likely to vote yes if they do not know the full implications of what they are voting for. I therefore come back to my central point which is that it is in the interests of democracy that the people of London know exactly what they can expect and what they will have to pay before they vote in the referendum. 624
 Sir Sydney Chapman : The hon. Gentleman knows perfectly well that there was not a referendum. I am not arguing that there should necessarily be a referendum before setting up the Greater London authority. There was not a referendum before setting up the GLC and, as he said, there was not one before abolishing it. It is his Government who decided, for understandable reasons—I do not quarrel with them—that there should be a referendum. I accept that they are carrying out their party manifesto pledge, but I am arguing that there was no need to pledge a referendum ahead of introducing a Bill. 623
 Sir Sydney Chapman  (Chipping Barnet) : The Minister keeps talking about a directly elected mayor and a directly elected assembly. Why does not the question to be posed in the referendum, as set out in the schedule to the Bill, say that specifically? Why does it leave out the word "directly"?
3.  Mr. John M. Taylor : If he will pay an official visit to Solihull hospital to discuss local health provision. [13810]
 Mr. Taylor : The Minister will be welcome when he comes to Solihull. Contrary to what the Secretary of State had to say, the previous Government gave my constituency a magnificent new state-of-the-art hospital. The Minister of State has recently vouchsafed to me in a written answer the range of services provided by that hospital. I hope that, when the Minister visits Solihull, he will be able to say that that range of services will be sustained for the benefit of my constituents and, perhaps, that other services will be added.
 Several hon. Members rose
 Mr. Gareth Thomas : I beg to move,
 That leave be given to bring in a Bill to regulate the use of wet bikes; and for connected purposes. "Sometimes there are 50 or 60 in one area, like yobs teeming round on motor bikes. They buzz swimmers, buzz boats and zip in and out of moorings. It is a catastrophe looking for somewhere to happen." 710
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss Lords amendments Nos. 5 to 7.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss Lords amendments Nos. 11 and 12.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to take Lords amendments Nos. 16 to 18.
18.  Dr. Harris : If he will publish performance indicators for all regions of the national blood transfusion service. [13827]
 Dr. Harris : Given the recently announced £3.5 million cost of redundancies in the national blood transfusion service since 1 April 1995 and that the interim Cash report on the move of services from Liverpool to Manchester stated that the national blood authority's plans were not proven and that it was too late to reconsider them, may I ask why the Secretary of State announced the setting up of the review only in August, given that it was an issue that the Labour party had campaigned on hard and effectively while in opposition and given also that the Labour Government prided themselves on hitting the ground reviewing in May?
 Mr. Jim Marshall : I also thank my right hon. Friend for the additional financial resources that will come to Leicestershire this year and next. Will my right hon. Friend guarantee that, in the review of the formulae for distributing the funds nationally, he will ensure that underfunded areas such as Leicestershire receive their due reward in coming years?
 Dr. Julian Lewis : Can the Minister come up with even one formula to explain away the Government's U-turn on their manifesto commitment to ban tobacco advertising?
10.  Dr. Palmer : What action he is taking to develop healthy living centres. [13818]
 Dr. Palmer : Is not the priority that the Government are giving to health spending for lottery money not vastly preferable to the priority of the previous Government, who were even willing to give one of their own Members of Parliament lottery money for his grandfather's diaries?
 Dr. Brand : Does the Minister agree that the extraordinary decision to exempt formula one racing advertising will undermine the efforts made by those healthy living centres?
 Dr. Brand : Does not the Minister now need to advise the Prime Minister that that extraordinary decision will undermine the campaign to achieve the aim, which we are all trying to achieve, of deglamorising smoking among young people?
 Dr. Rudi Vis  (Finchley and Golders Green) : Well, it is from a different position and I must apologise to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. You talked about accountability and transparency, but the bit of the Maastricht treaty that you read out concerned independence, not accountability or transparency, which is elsewhere in the treaty. You would do well to read that out to us.
 Dr. Stephen Ladyman  (South Thanet) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend the Member for Dover (Mr. Prosser) and to the Minister for allowing me to make a brief contribution to the debate.
 Dr. Vincent Cable (Twickenham) rose
 Dr. Vincent Cable  (Twickenham) : I want to talk primarily about part III of the Bill, which has attracted very little attention. I suspect that that is because it is less politically sexy, or perhaps it is just too complicated. However, it covers some important matters which need to be debated now, before the Bill goes into Committee. In general, my party supports the Bill, as we favour operational independence for the Bank of England and the idea of statutory uniform regulation. Within that broad framework, however, many questions still need to be answered. 781 782 783
 Mr. Soames : Will the Minister look with care at the programme of savings instituted in the Ministry of Defence by the former Chief Secretary, which was extremely successful in looking at the non-core business and work of the MoD and seeing whether that work could be contracted out or done better by other people? The considerable savings from "Front Line First" were ploughed back into the front line. Will he look at such a programme and not dismiss it out of hand, as there is real scope for substantial savings?
 Madam Speaker : It is not a matter for me which Minister handles the legislation. There is collective responsibility.
 Madam Speaker : I should be glad to give consideration to the hon. Gentleman's suggestion. I do not know whether he was in the House last Thursday when we had an exchange on this matter. I am pleased to tell hon. Members who are interested that all Committees that sat this morning observed the two-minute silence. As the hon. Gentleman will probably know, I sent suggestions to all the Departments of the House asking them to observe the silence, and I know that very many of them did. I looked through my kitchen window when I was observing the two-minute silence and was pleased to see that traffic on Westminster bridge came to a standstill, as did the pedestrians. The House has done an honour to the dead of two world wars, but I will be glad to look at suggestions for next year.
 Madam Speaker : That is not a very complimentary comment to me, if I may say so, Mr. Bermingham. I watch the Order Paper very carefully, and I find that many hon. Members on both sides of the House do not follow substantive questions. I had to call to order Members on the Government side yesterday for not following the question. This is an opportunity for me to
 708
 Madam Speaker : Order. What is the point of order for me?
 Madam Speaker : Order. These are not points of order. I recognise them only too well as political point scoring, and I will have no more of them. The hon. Member for South Dorset (Mr. Bruce) knows that we have procedures to deal with the matter he raised. He should raise it with the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards and not on the Floor of the House.
 Madam Speaker : Order. I have had enough.
 Ms Diane Abbott  (Hackney, North and Stoke Newington) : Will my right hon. Friend explain how one can modernise the British economy by going back to arrangements that we last saw under Montagu Norman in the 1930s?
 Ms Abbott : On the question of accountability and the use of the Treasury Select Committee as a medium, the Bank already gives evidence to the Select Committee several times a year, and it is not expected that it will appear more often. If the Government were serious about making the MPC accountable to Parliament, would they not have made it possible for the Treasury Select Committee to hold confirmatory hearings of the MPC?
 Ms Abbott : Please allow me to develop my argument. I realise that many distinguished hon. Members are passionate about this subject, but I must continue.
 Ms Abbott : That is another speech for another time, which the hon. Gentleman may await at his pleasure. 765
 Ms Abbott : I wish to continue. Many hon. Members wish to participate in the debate. 766 "Since 1962, countries with independent central banks have suffered deeper recessions on average than those without." Financial Times "People may lose their jobs unnecessarily because Mr. Brown is abdicating responsibility for achieving his inflation targets to the Bank."
 Ms Abbott : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that, even though the Bank of England's current forecasts on inflation might be momentarily optimistic, the Bank's record as a forecaster is that it consistently shows a deflationary bias?
 Ms Diane Abbott  (Hackney, North and Stoke Newington) : There is no more powerful thing in the realm of economic ideas than fashion, and it is with some timidity that I stand up against the prevailing tide of fashion, which says that the answer for the British economy is an independent central bank; none the less, faced with the facts, I must do so. "They now ring the bells, but they will soon wring their hands." 764 "Great economic blizzards swept the world in those years. The great inter-war slumps were not acts of God or of blind forces. They were the sure and certain result of the concentration of too much economic power in the hands of too few men. These men had only learned how to act in the interests of their own bureaucratically-run private monopolies which may be likened to totalitarian oligarchies within our democratic state. They had and they felt no responsibility to the nation."
 Ms Abbott : I know that consistency is an over-rated virtue, but if the right hon. Gentleman is against independence for the Bank of England in principle, he ought to be reassured that the Chancellor will ostensibly have so much power over the monetary committee.
 Ms Abbott : My hon. Friend has repeated the well-rehearsed point that politicians cannot be trusted with interest rates. Will he explain, therefore, the intellectual rationale for trusting politicians with the other levers of monetary policy—fiscal policy and so on?
 Ms Abbott : Is it right for my hon. Friend to talk about the Chancellor's granny in such disparaging terms? For all we know, she might be an expert on monetary policy.
 Mr. Milburn : I am aware of the concerns in the Swindon area about the availability of dental services. I shall see my right hon. Friend before long to discuss these. I can give my hon. Friend an assurance that the Government will do everything that we can to bear down on unnecessary bureaucracy costs wherever they arise in the national health service to ensure that there is adequate investment in front-line patient care.
 Mr. Milburn : The deferment of the eighth wave of the general practitioner fundholding scheme led to £20 million from the inherited budget for general practitioner fundholders' management costs being immediately redeployed into patient care.
 Mr. Milburn : My right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury announced on 11 June that prescription charges were to be one element of the Department of Health's comprehensive spending review. We aim to complete the review by next spring.
 Mr. Milburn : Statutory control of clinics offering cosmetic surgery in the private sector is provided through a system of registration and inspection delegated to health authorities under the Registered Homes Act 1984.
 Mr. Milburn : I commend my hon. Friend's work on behalf of patients who have suffered through cosmetic surgery in the private sector. All patients, regardless of whether they receive their treatment and operations in the private sector or the national health service, should expect the highest possible standards of medical care. My hon. Friend will be aware that there are certain safeguards for patients within the current regulatory framework. Ministers are considering how better to safeguard patients' interests when they use private sector medical treatment.
 Mr. Milburn : The policy of the Health Department is that we are conducting a review, and the review will report in due course. I would take the hon. Gentleman's concerns more seriously and they would be more convincing if the Conservatives, when they were in power, had not increased prescription charges fourfold in real terms. The outcome of the comprehensive spending review will be judged by one yardstick: the Government's commitment to the historic principle of the NHS that services should be available according to need and need alone.
 Mr. Milburn : Only one party in the House is addicted to charges in the national health service. It is the party that introduced prescription charges, dental check charges and eye test charges into the national health service: the Conservative party.
 Mr. Milburn : I know that the hon. Gentleman takes this issue, and health issues in general, very seriously. I assure him that, before too long, we shall announce details of a royal commission that will examine those issues properly. We shall ensure that, in future, older people receive the sort of treatment and services that they deserve.
 Mr. Milburn : As the hon. Gentleman knows, what counts for this Government is what works. The efficiency task force will look to ensure that, in future, we will pool together where possible the functions currently provided by NHS trusts. If it is possible to bear down on administration functions and to cut waste, we will do so. I am sure that all hon. Members will back the Government's manifesto commitment to ensure that resources go to front-line patient services.
 Mr. Milburn : As my hon. Friend is aware, a review is taking place of the successes—and some of the failures—of the blood transfusion service. That review will report shortly.
 The Minister of State, Department of Health (Mr. Alan Milburn) : On 22 May, we announced a programme of measures to reduce management costs by £100 million this year. Our efficiency task force has identified savings of £40 million. As part of our plans to replace the internal market, we are looking at the scope for further savings from bureaucracy.
 Mr. Milburn : I would not want to prejudge the outcome of the Turnberg review of London's health
 695
 Mr. Milburn : My hon. Friend is quite right to say that with the right that patients have to access to NHS services comes the responsibility to use those services wisely. The Government will be seeking to learn the lessons from best practice, particularly in areas like "did not attends". The efficiency task force will be looking specifically at this area, and we intend to bear down on bureaucracy and waste and to invest more in front-line patient services.
 Mr. Darling : If my hon. Friend will bear with me, I shall set out exactly how we do that and how the various parts of the Bill will modernise our procedures and institutions. 712
 Mr. Darling : I shall give way in a moment.
 The Chief Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Alistair Darling) : I am not sure who the hon. Gentleman is, but when 1 find out I might perhaps deal with the matter.
 Mr. Darling : There are two points there. First, we are not joining the single currency this afternoon. That is for another day. Secondly, my hon. Friend must accept that, in the long term, the only way to achieve high and sustainable levels of growth is to ensure price stability and low inflation. I know that some people believe that it is possible to have high inflation and high levels of employment, but I do not accept that.
 Mr. Darling : The right hon. Gentleman is mistaken. Clause 11 shows that the Government's objectives are high levels of growth and employment.
 Mr. Darling : The right hon. Gentleman is reading it the wrong way round. The Bank's objective is to maintain price stability, but that is in support of the Government's objectives of growth and employment. It is not possible to have high and sustainable levels of growth, together with the levels of employment that we all want, without ensuring price stability in the first place. We have had to pay a high premium over the years because of the political
 713
 Mr. Darling : I should like to make some progress and then I shall give way. 1 shall come back to that point. If the hon. Gentleman can contain himself, I should be happy to let him in shortly.
 Mr. Darling : My hon. Friend will know that the Select Committee has made that recommendation. When I appeared before it last week, I made it clear that the Government have an open mind on the matter, but I also made it clear that I thought that the Committee could discharge its obligations and responsibilities to hold the MPC to account whether or not it had those powers. I do not regard the Committee's having those powers as an essential precondition to its holding the MPC to account.
 Mr. Darling : The right hon. Gentleman has been a Member longer than I have and he might agree—when he is in a less partisan mode—that there have been many occasions when Members of all parties have wondered whether the doctrine of accountability has fallen by the wayside. In the previous Parliament and the one before, I cannot remember any Minister resigning because of policy failure. They might have resigned for other, extraneous reasons, but not very often for policy failure.
 Mr. Darling : If I am not mistaken, Lady Thatcher was Prime Minister in 1981 and in 1985, but perhaps Opposition Members would prefer to forget that. 715
 Mr. Darling : I appreciate that all former Chancellors of the Exchequer have to defend their position, especially those from the recent past, but I am sure that the right hon. and learned Gentleman agrees that, in the long run, it is not possible to achieve high levels of employment if we have high levels of inflation. We are agreed on that. I shall return shortly to the provision in the Bill to which he refers, but it is clear that, if the inflation target will
 716
 Mr. Darling : The thrust of the Government's policy is to achieve stability so that we can have long-term growth and low inflation. That will allow us to compete and converge with other European economies. Regardless of monetary union, the policies outlined by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor in his Budget, coupled with the Bill, will be good for the country and good for business. It happens that it is in the country's long-term interests to ensure stability between ourselves and our competitor countries. The Bill will achieve that.
 Mr. Darling : To stop the hon. Gentleman, I shall certainly give way.
 Mr. Darling : I am not sure that I follow what the hon. Gentleman is saying. The Government's objective is to ensure that interest rates are as low as possible, but we cannot do that until we take the necessary action to get
 714
 Mr. Darling : I know that the hon. Gentleman and some of his hon. Friends are obsessed with all matters European, but it is worth reminding him that, during much of the 1980s, when we were not part of a fixed exchange rate, interest rates were extremely high. In 1979, the rate of interest reached 17 per cent., in 1981, it was 16 per cent. and in 1985, it was 14 per cent. Inflation was also high. In 1980, it reached 21 per cent. That had nothing to do with the fixed exchange rate. It had rather more to do with the way in which—
 Mr. Darling : I shall give way again shortly, but I should like to make some progress.
 Mr. Darling : I said that I thought that it would be difficult for the Government and the House to come to a concluded view on whether confirmatory hearings would be desirable, not only here but across the board, by the time that the Bill goes to Committee, which, if it achieves Second Reading at 10 pm tonight—I would not want to anticipate anything—will be fairly shortly. I think that my open mind is maintained.
 Mr. Darling : As my hon. Friend knows, I do not have the power to refer the matter to the Modernisation Select Committee, but I undertake to discuss it with my right hon. Friend the Leader of the House.
 Mr. Darling : The right hon. Gentleman seems to have moved from the position where he appreciated the attractions of Lord Lawson's memorandum to the then Prime Minister. He has said that, because of what he regards as parliamentary sovereignty, he cannot support the principle of giving operational responsibility to the Bank of England. How does he square that view with the commitment he gave a few moments ago that he will have to wait and see if it works? If he opposes the move on principle, surely the answer must be beyond doubt—as it is for him on Europe.
 Mr. Darling : A straw.
 Mr. Darling : We introduced the Bill because we thought that it was good for the British economy, regardless of whether this country joins the single currency. Notwithstanding what the right hon. Gentleman is saying about the single currency, does not the logic of his position lead him to exclude this country ever joining the single currency, because of the principles he holds?
 Mr. Darling : I wonder why the right hon. Gentleman cannot answer the question that I put to him. The logic of his position on the single currency is that the Conservative party would never ever join the single currency. Is not that right?
 Mr. Darling : Which Parliament?
 Mr. Darling : I want to develop the theme just a little, and then I will let the hon. Gentleman intervene. 719
 Mr. Darling : I am looking forward to this, because perhaps, for the first time in six months, the Opposition will tell us whether they oppose the principle of the Bill.
 Mr. Darling : It is nice to know that, if nothing else, the Conservatives are now the champions of the House, which is something that I had not noticed in the past 10 years. The Bank will explain its position in its letter and can be held to account. The Chancellor can respond to what the Bank says, as indeed can the House, through the Treasury Select Committee or, if appropriate, a debate on the Floor of the House.
 Mr. Darling : I understand why the hon. Gentleman wants free votes. I was under the impression that he has always exercised the right to a free vote, especially on European matters. He should take the matter up with his Whips, if he is on speaking terms with them. 720
 Mr. Darling : The hon. Gentleman is new to the House. The powers and constitution of Select Committees are a matter for the House, and, quite rightly, not for the Government of the day. The House decides what powers the Treasury Select Committee or any other Select Committee should have.
 Mr. Darling : The right hon. Gentleman should be wary of quoting selectively from my speeches. I recognise the passage. If he cared to quote the entire speech—I do not expect him to do so this afternoon, but perhaps he could if he is on the Standing Committee—he would find that I was talking about a sudden and immediate change. We propose a gradual change. 721
 Mr. Darling : I have great sympathy with what my hon. Friend says. Part of the problem with the self-regulatory system that existed in the 1980s was that, in many cases, the regulators turned a blind eye to what was going on. Certainly, in the case of pensions mis-selling, the industry knew that it was going on, but the regulators chose to do nothing about it. 722 723 The Sunday Telegraph "The CBI is bad news for British industry". Interruption
 Mr. Darling : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Darling : It would help the House if the right hon. Gentleman would confirm a point. Do I take it from his answer a moment ago that he is saying that the Conservative party will not, therefore, campaign to repeal the Bill if it is enacted?
 Mr. Andrew Tyrie  (Chichester) : Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that giving independence to the Bank so quickly was a complete breach of a clear pledge made by the Prime Minister when he was Leader of the Opposition? In a speech in 1995, he said:
 "We will … watch the track record of the Bank before deciding what, if any, steps should be taken towards greater operational responsibility for the Bank in interest rate policy."
 Mr. Tyrie rose
 Mr. Tyrie : What does all that have to do with the Bill?
 Mr. Tyrie : I was.
 Mr. Andrew Tyrie  (Chichester) : It was a pity that my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke) was not here to answer some of the allegations made about him by the hon. Member for Bolton, West (Ms Kelly). Some of those allegations were very strong, and I am sure that when he reads them in  Hansard "We will reform the Bank of England to ensure that decision-making on monetary policy is more effective, open and accountable." "We will then watch the track record of the Bank before deciding what, if any, further steps should be taken towards greater operational responsibility for the Bank in interest rate policy." "We will match the current target for low and stable inflation of 2.5 per cent. or less." 774 775
 Mr. Tyrie : I am not on the Front Bench. I am expressing my view on the Bill. If we are going to go for independence, we must make a proper job of it and not have the sort of half-baked hotch-potch of a job that we have with this Bill. If we are going to go for independence, we must give the Bank not only operational responsibility but target or goal-performance responsibility.
 Mr. Tyrie : No, I will not give way a second time.
 Mr. Tyrie : Yes, it is like a gagging order. I disagree not so much with the purdah period that the committee has decided to impose on itself around the time of the meetings, as there is some sense in that, as with the six-week lag between meetings and publication of the minutes. Minutes should be published much more quickly, within a few days. Moreover, committee members should be free to speak about them and, if necessary, to dissent from the decisions that have been taken. The forces of collegiality in the committee will be strong enough to ensure that the freedom to speak will be exercised only in extreme circumstances.
 Mr. Austin Mitchell  (Great Grimsby) : I want to try to give a good Labour speech, rather like that given earlier by the right hon. and learned Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke), the previous Chancellor of the Exchequer. I regret the fact that, while the first act of the Labour Government in 1945 was to nationalise the Bank of England, the first act of the Labour Government in 1997 was to give the Bank of England independent control over the most important lever of economic management. The Sun 784 "a country with an independent central bank will. ceteris paribus,"— "have a lower rate of inflation than will a country where politicians can steer the central bank's policy." "Most empirical studies, however, show that central-bank autonomy does not enhance economic growth £ Indeed, most studies suggest that central-bank independence is associated with higher disinflation costs." 785 The Observer 786
 Mr. Mitchell : It is in fashion.
 Mr. Austin Mitchell  (Great Grimsby) : Terrorise them.
 Mr. William Cash  (Stone) : The right hon. Gentleman made much play of accountability and mentioned that we could have a debate on any failings in the system as and when they occur. Given that the Government will ultimately control the questions that lie at the heart of the Bill, does he agree that there is a strong case, if things go awry, for having a free vote in the House?
 Mr. Clarke : Making a European central bank politically accountable internationally would probably require an international council of Ministers, which, as the French wish, would produce more political intervention. If there is a European central bank and if we participate, I should prefer us to build on the point that I was making. Accountability to Parliament did not previously involve the House of Commons holding the Chancellor to account the day after an interest rate increase. I cannot remember that happening. Accountability for monetary decisions depends on openness and transparency.
 Mr. Clarke : As my hon. Friend says, a bit like that famous magician, "just like that." The Chancellor pulled it out of his hat, and we are now debating the Bill. 739
 Mr. Clarke : Yes, I do. I think that the Bank is wrong today. 740 [Interruption.] 741
 Mr. Charles Clarke : Will the right hon. and learned Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Charles Clarke : Does the right hon. and learned Gentleman believe that, if the Bill had been in force in the first part of the year while he was still Chancellor of the Exchequer, the interest rates would have been the same as they were?
 Mr. Charles Clarke rose
 Mr. Charles Clarke  (Norwich, South) : The right hon. Gentleman was discussing the manipulation of interest rates a few moments ago. Does he concede that the former Chancellor, the right hon. and learned Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke), was involved in precisely such manipulation of interest rates before the general election, and that the system set in place by the Bill would prevent Chancellors from conducting such political manipulation?
 Mr. Charles Clarke  (Norwich, South) : I strongly support the Bill. I want to talk about the accountability of the Bank, on which the Treasury Committee has reported, and, in particular, to reject everything the hon. Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton (Mr. Gibb) said. I was glad that he spoke with such brevity—to allow the full involvement of Labour Members. "We believe that by bringing information into the public domain we can help to clarify the issues and that rigorous scrutiny of the basis for policy decisions will enhance the credibility and effectiveness of the monetary policy framework as a whole." "maximum transparency and openness in policy making … will add to the Government's credibility"— "and in turn will lead to a reduction in the premium we have to pay currently in terms of interest rates." 793 794
 Mr. Chope : I thank the hon. Lady for the way in which she has dealt with this and the other amendments. It is significant that there is a lot more interest in the Bill at this stage, after it has been considered in the other place, than there was when it was initially considered. Perhaps that is an indication of the increasing pressure on the Government as the weeks of this Parliament go by.
 Mr. Chope : I am grateful to the Minister for his positive response on this open government amendment, which originated with the Opposition. Perhaps he could explain, however, why it does not extend to the receiver for the Metropolitan police district or to a probation committee.
 Mr. Christopher Chope  (Christchurch) : We are grateful for the Government's response to the concerns expressed on the issue.
 Mr. Christopher Gill  (Ludlow) : As the House knows, the Government are committed in principle to entering a single currency. Has he not observed that, on previous occasions when Britain has been part of fixed exchange rates—during our membership of the exchange rate mechanism in 1990-92 and during our membership of the gold standard in 1925-31—interest rates rose to an inappropriate level? It was only when we left those fixed exchange rate mechanisms that interest rates fell away and economic activity recommenced. Would it not be rash to take us back into fixed exchange rates with the risk that, once again, interest rates will rise to a wholly inappropriate level?
 Mr. Dafydd Wigley  (Caernarfon) rose
 Mr. Wigley : The Bill says, "subject to that".
 Mr. Wigley : I would indeed. The Bill gives overriding priority to maintaining price stability. Growth and employment are subject to that. That differs from the approach in the United States, where the Federal Reserve has inflation, growth and employment as targets of equal importance. The Government should not make employment subsidiary to the control of inflation, which appears to be the god on all occasions.
 Mr. Heathcoat-Amory : That point was dealt with satisfactorily and comprehensively by my right hon. Friend the Member for Hitchin and Harpenden (Mr. Lilley). 798
 Mr. Heathcoat-Amory : I am sorry to tell the hon. Lady the bad news: inflation has increased since the Chancellor made that announcement. The Chancellor routinely, month after month, misses his inflation target. It is now above 2.5 per cent. He not only sent a signal that Labour Governments are soft on inflation, but compounded the error in the Budget by failing to deal with what he thought was incipient overheating with excessive consumer expenditure. 799 "will reduce the Bank's discretion." 800
 Mr. Heathcoat-Amory : I refer the hon. Lady to her own legislation, which says quite clearly, on page 5, clause 11, that the maintenance of price stability— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Heathcoat-Amory : I had better give way to the Chairman of the Treasury Select Committee.
 Mr. David Heathcoat-Amory  (Wells) : This most interesting debate has revealed deep cracks in the facade of new Labour. The most notable speeches by Labour Members were made by hon. Members who obviously do not believe that it is one of the tasks of a Labour Government to hand over control of economic policy to bankers, however eminent those bankers may be. Although they are bound to be dismissed as the voice of old Labour by the trendies on the Treasury Bench, they nevertheless represent a more authentic Labour tradition, from which we shall hear much more before this Parliament is out. 797
 Mr. Hinchliffe : On NHS pay rates, may I take my right hon. Friend back to the answer that he gave a few moments ago to my hon. Friend the Member for Leicester, South (Mr. Marshall) about the formula for allocating resources to individual health authorities? What consideration has he given to removing the market forces factor from the current formula, which assumes that NHS wages are low in generally low-waged areas, such as my constituency, and badly penalises those areas?
15.  Mr. Lock : What action the Government are taking to reduce tobacco advertising. [13823]
 Mr. Lock : I thank my hon. Friend for that statement. Does she accept that about one in six of my constituents
 704
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker. Whatever you do in response to the request from the hon. Member for South Dorset (Mr. Bruce), do not send the matter to the committee that I wanted to set up when the Tory party took £440,000 from that crook Asil Nadir. You know, Madam Speaker, that I raised that issue in the House 20 times. I wanted committees; I wanted investigations; I wanted the Tory Government to send the money back to all the shareholders in Mr. Nadir's company—but what happened? The Tories kept the money and used it in the general election campaign. The British people said, "That money stinks and we are going to kick the Tories out." My party sent the money back.
 Mr. Skinner : Does my right hon. Friend agree that it is staggering to hear the Tories attacking low-paid workers when a previous Tory Secretary of State for Health, who later became Chancellor of the Exchequer, has now got four extra moonlighting jobs, picking up something approaching £500,000 a year? There are gangs
 697
 Mr. Davies : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Davies : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that the Bank of England's forecasts on inflation are significantly
 760
 Mr. Davies : No, I will not give way to the hon. Gentleman again.
 736 "We propose a new monetary policy committee to decide on the advice which the Bank of England should give to the Chancellor." The Guardian "The danger of giving the Bank of England operational independence always was that it would show an inflationary bias". 737 The Guardian
 Mr. Davies : That point has already been made in the debate. Rather than refer to speeches made in opposition, I intend to consult the sacred text of the manifesto.
 Mr. Denzil Davies  (Llanelli) : One can say that the most controversial part of the Bill—we heard this in the speeches from my right hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh, Central (Mr. Darling) and from the right hon. Member for Hitchin and Harpenden (Mr. Lilley)—must be part II. For part II of the Bill seeks to transfer the power to fix short-term interest rates, to conduct monetary policy and, in effect, control inflation, from an elected Chancellor of the Exchequer—who is directly answerable to the House, and through us in the House to the people—to the non-elected officials of the monetary policy committee of the Bank of England. 735
 Mr. Hogg : Does the Secretary of State accept that, within the Trent region, there is particular concern about Grantham hospital because of the proposals by Lincolnshire health authority that will have a damaging effect on the paediatric department and other departments in that hospital? My hon. Friend the Member for Grantham and Stamford (Mr. Davies) is particularly concerned about the matter. Does the Secretary of State accept that, should an appeal to him be successful, he may have to make additional funds available to Grantham hospital? Will he please make a reservation in his own mind now against that possibility?
 Mr. Forth : The right hon. Gentleman is introducing the element of accountability, and it is at least arguable
 717
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : It was a Labour Government.
 Mr. Dobson : I have asked Professor Cash to produce a report that contains proposals on how best to secure the interests of the people of Merseyside and the needs of clinicians working in the area who are trying to provide top-quality treatment and care, and then to put in place machinery to make that possible.
 Mr. Dobson : On getting into office, I immediately asked for reports on the state of the proposals for the transfer from Liverpool to Manchester of bulk processing of blood. Had I been in a position to take the initial decision, I would never have agreed to the transfer. I asked Professor Cash, the president of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh and the former head of the Scottish blood transfusion service, to advise me. His advice was, reluctantly, that the Liverpool service was so run down that, in the interests of the safety and security of blood supplies, it was, sadly, necessary to go ahead with the transfer. 706
 Mr. Dobson : A range of performance indicators for the national blood service's operations are being developed. Some of them should be published later this month. I want to ensure that any indicators of performance make sense and are acceptable to the clinicians who receive the services from the national blood transfusion service. I am not wildly impressed by the senior management of that outfit.
 Mr. Dobson : Our proposals for devolution are set out in the White Paper "Scotland's Parliament". There are no plans to transfer any of my responsibilities to the Scottish Parliament.
 Mr. Dobson : That is correct.
 Mr. Dobson : As my hon. Friend knows, I think it is disgraceful that our society has descended so low that people who work in accident and emergency departments or who go out with ambulances or are district nurses or GPs cannot perform their duties without fear of assault and abuse. Since coming to my present office, I have made it a major priority that national service managers must do whatever they can to reduce the impact of violent assaults on national health service staff.
 703
 Mr. Dobson : National health service staff at all levels and in all disciplines tell me that certain aspects of the patients charter have led to an increase in the number of assaults on and abuses of staff, particularly in accident and emergency departments. That is one reason why we intend to change the patients charter and make it an NHS charter in which patients have responsibilities as well as rights.
 Mr. Dobson : I do not propose to demean the House by answering that stupid question about the former Secretary of State's Tory friends losing their places on national health service trusts, when my hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool, Riverside (Mrs. Ellman) was referring to the physical assault and abuse of nurses, doctors and ambulance staff. If the right hon. Lady thinks that there are parallels between the two cases, no wonder she made such a mess of this job.
 Mr. Dobson : I really do not think that I can be reasonably expected to plead guilty to the immediate devastation of South Dorset; nor am I responsible for the hon. Gentleman's majority of 77. Given the sparsity factor, his area will next year get an increase of 4.14 per cent. on its spending this year—an extra £13 million. If he did not have barefaced cheek, he would get up and thank me for it.
 Mr. Dobson : Since we took over, we have emphasised at every stage that the problems faced by the national health and the social services this winter can be dealt with only if they are working together. I have written twice to health service bosses in each area and to local authority bosses. The chief inspector of social services and the chief
 698
 Mr. Dobson : I do not think that that would be sensible. I welcome the hon. Gentleman to the Opposition Front Bench and thank him for his kind remarks about our response to the breast cancer screening crisis in Devon and Exeter. However, it would probably not serve the people of Cornwall to blow the whistle on the existing consultation process and start all over again—that would simply prolong the uncertainty. I give him and the people of Cornwall the assurance that when the proposals come before me, as they certainly will because the community health councils are opposed to them, I shall scrutinise them very carefully indeed.
 Mr. Dobson : Exactly. As the hon. Gentleman knows, the Low Pay Commission is currently considering what the national minimum wage should be. As he points out to Conservative Members, who sit on the same side of the House as him but with whom lie is generally not associated, I am glad to say, a substantial number of badly paid people in the national health service nevertheless provide services that are vital if the highly paid professionals are to be able to do their jobs properly. Once again, it is shameful that Tories should be asking me what the impact on the national health service of a national minimum wage is likely to be, when they are apparently proud of paying poverty wages to people who provide treatment and care for the sick and injured.
 Mr. Dobson : The right hon. and learned Gentleman has made representations about Grantham hospital, as has the hon. Member for Grantham and Stamford (Mr. Davies). I understand that the proposal will be passed to me by the people whom his Government appointed to run Lincolnshire health authority. I await the opportunity to adjudicate on their ideas.
 Mr. Dobson : I entirely agree with my hon. Friend. We very much welcome the commitment to the new hospital for Reading that has just been announced and the new hospital for Sheffield that was announced last week in addition to the 15 new hospital projects that we announced under the private finance initiative that we inherited from the previous Government. All they did was keep announcing that they would build new hospitals, but they never actually got around to it.
 Mr. Dobson : The first requirement is that the interests of the people presently served by Grantham hospital should continue to be served, and that they have a modern and reliable health service to deliver the health care that they want. However, that has to be considered in the light of the other obligations on the rest of the health service in Lincolnshire; as I understand it, that is the proposition that will eventually come to me. I thank the hon. Gentleman for welcoming one of the changes that Labour is making in the membership of health authorities and
 693
 Mr. Dobson : I can make two clear points. First, the allocation that we have recently announced better reflects clinical need and deprivation than did the formulae used by the previous Government. Secondly, and contrary to much scaremongering by Opposition Members, the new formulae involve an element of rurality, so that areas with sparser populations do not suffer. I realise that that does not apply to the city of Leicester, but I expect that Leicester will benefit from the changes that I have mentioned.
 Mr. Dobson : As my hon. Friend points out, yet again, the Tories are for the few rather than the many, and we are proud to be for the many rather than the few.
 Mr. Dobson : In May 1997, the new Government inherited from the Tory Government the longest hospital waiting lists in the history of the national health service after 18 years of Tory rule. Inevitably, those waiting lists have continued to grow.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Dobson : We have changed the arrangements for this year and we are considering next year's. To the people who graced—if that is the word—the Treasury Benches for the previous 18 years, all I can say is that I am astonished that they are not ashamed to acknowledge, let alone claim, to the House that a substantial number of the 1 million hard-working people in the national health service are likely to be paid less than what would be a reasonable national minimum wage. They are saying that our national health service depends on paying poverty wages, when they know that poverty makes people ill.
 Mr. Dobson : It is precisely so that we can advise the Treasury and the rest of the Government on the possible
 696
 Mr. Dobson : I have ordered a survey of earnings in the national health service, to make available to the Government information that any employer would want to have. The previous Government stopped collecting that information, presumably on the basis of the motto, "Ignorance is strength".
 The Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Frank Dobson) : Since 1 May, the new Government, as part of their commitment to establishing a reliable and modern health service, have provided an additional £1.5 billion to the national health service—an extra £1.2 billion for next year and an extra £300 million for this winter. In the Trent region, £16 million extra has been provided for this winter to help with emergencies and restrain the rise in waiting lists.
 Mr. Dobson : I can assure my hon. Friend that we will publish a detailed breakdown of the extra £16 million that is being provided to help the health service in the Trent region this winter. It is intended to help with emergencies and to finance local social services in taking steps to prevent old people from having to go into hospital unnecessarily and to take people out of hospital when, from their point of view and everyone else's, they are better off at home.
 Mr. Geoffrey Clifton-Brown  (Cotswold) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. You will be aware that many millions of people this morning marked the Armistice day two-minute silence, to commemorate those who have fallen in trying to defeat some of the worst tyrannies that the world has ever seen. They did it to defeat tyranny and uphold democracy. The House is the fount of democracy.
 Mr. Geoffrey Clifton-Brown  (Cotswold) : Did not that little exchange demonstrate precisely the position of Members of Her Majesty's Government? They have not realised yet that they are in government, and that is why they are having to give away these powers to the Bank of England.
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : Is not the danger of the Government's proposals that a Chancellor such as my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke), who has good judgment, was able to prolong the economic cycle, whereas a Chancellor who has no judgment at all has to hand over weighty decisions to an independent governor? Bankers are always cautious. The proposal is therefore likely to be deflationary, and will have the effect of shortening the economic cycle. Is not that a considerable danger?
 Mr. Stevenson : Does my hon. Friend agree that the task facing the Government now is to get on with a ban on advertising smoking, where that can be practically and quickly achieved? Would not such a measure of the Government's determination be in stark contrast to the cowardly attitude of the Conservative party, which steadfastly refused to face up to that important issue?
 Mr. Geraint Davies : The right hon. Gentleman seems to be in favour of the principle of independence, but has produced a litany of reasons why we should be against it. Is he against independence? Is he against the interests of business as expressed by the Confederation of British Industry, the Institute of Directors and the Federation of Small Businesses?
 Mr. Geraint Davies : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Geraint Davies : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Geraint Davies : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Geraint Davies : The hon. Gentleman has made some play about the Chancellor intervening in the extreme circumstances of economic shocks; yet earlier we heard the former Chancellor—the right hon. and learned Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke)—say that there is no
 776
 Mr. Geraint Davies : The hon. Gentleman asserted that the five rises in interest rates since the election were caused by independence being given to the Bank of England. He has no counter-factual evidence to suggest that interest rates would not have been higher under political control. The shadow Chancellor has no view on that, because he and the Conservative party do not know what the rate should be. In essence, he said, "This situation is awful, but I don't know what we would do." To suggest that the rises are a function of independence is rubbish—they are a market response to the current economic conditions.
 Mr. Geraint Davies  (Croydon, Central) : Does the right hon. Gentleman agree with the former Chancellor, Norman Lamont, that the Conservative party should agree with its principle, and should go ahead and support the Government?
 Mr. Bermingham rose
 Mr. Bermingham : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the mistake having been made—we all know that it was made in the transfer—steps should now be taken to review the north-west and the supply within it so that there might be adequate services in that area? Will he give me an undertaking that such a review will take place? I know that this appalling mistake is not my right hon. Friend's but his predecessor's, but will steps be taken to rectify it in due course?
 Mr. Gerald Bermingham  (St. Helens, South) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I apologise for trying to raise a point of order during Question Time. I should have known better.
 Mr. Giles Radice  (North Durham) : I thank my right hon. Friend for his favourable response to the Select
 718
 Mr. Radice : Terrorism is not necessarily the best way of enhancing accountability.
 Mr. Radice rose
 Mr. Radice : If it is such a dog's breakfast of a Bill, why do not the Opposition say that they will repeal it if they get into government? If it is so bad, why not repeal it?
 Mr. Radice : There is a famous central banker called Mr. Greenspan who clearly looks after the real economy as well as the inflationary issues.
 Mr. Radice : That is for you lot.
 Mr. Radice : Will my bon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Radice : The Bill puts the matter simply. It states that the primary task of the Bank is to concern itself with inflation, but it must also consider the objectives of Government economic policy, which include growth and employment. It does not hand over everything; it gives the Bank a role.
 Mr. Giles Radice  (North Durham) : The shadow Chancellor's speech was rather ambiguous and uncertain. I was surprised when he ended up recommending that his party vote against the Bill. The right hon. and learned
 745
 Mr. Radice : It is not a question of fashion, but rather the result of practical experience. If my hon. Friend the Member for Great Grimsby (Mr. Mitchell) will settle down for a moment, I shall give him part of the argument. 746 "If monetary policy remains in the hands of politicians, the markets demand an interest rate premium." "When I want to put up interest rates I put them up. When I want to bring them down, I bring them down." 747 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Radice : It is not a purely intellectual argument, but one about practice. One has only to look at the record. That is why so many countries have been giving banks operational independence in respect of monetary policy.
 Mr. Radice : However good she is, it would be ill advised to put relatives on the Monetary Policy Committee.
 Mr. Radice : It is easy to poke fun at the idea, but we shall look at the professional competence of the people concerned. We have good advisers and our own views. It will not be a question of putting monetarists or Keynesians on the committee, because we do not actually appoint members of the committee. That is a decision for the Chancellor. We will be able to make reports to the House on those appointed or nominated by the Chancellor and, in some instances, we may decide that they are not professionally up to the job. We may be wrong, but the House can take account of our view and dismiss it if it wants.
 Mr. Gwyn Prosser  (Dover) : I am grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this Adjournment debate on the subject of my choice—a matter essential to the past, present and future well-being of my constituency. Although more than half of my constituency can be described as rural, the majority of jobs are either related to the port or town-based, and the very existence of the port and the town relies on Dover's transport links—road and rail links to other parts of Kent and to London, the cross-channel links to France and Belgium, and deep-sea shipping links to other parts of Europe and to the worldwide shipping lanes. 818 819 820
 Mr. Howard Flight  (Arundel and South Downs) : This hotch-potch privatisation—the independence of the Bank of England—will, like the Chancellor's Budget, soon lose its initial popularity. If we are to have an independent central bank, let us do it properly like the Federal Reserve and have proper, full and open accountability and let those who are responsible be properly serviced and have objectives that cover the full range of economic activity, not merely over-narrow, anti-inflation objectives. 795
 Mr. Ian Bruce : But Madam Speaker—
 Mr. Bruce : The point of order concerns how we can get the Select Committee on Standards and Privileges to investigate what is clearly a breach of our rules. It brings the House into disrepute, because it is alleged that money is changing hands to gain the Prime Minister's influence.
 Mr. Ian Bruce  (South Dorset) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Some months ago, I tried to find out from the Registrar of Members' Interests—I have written to the people concerned, as you would wish—whether the use of a blind trust for financing the Leader of the Opposition's office would be acceptable. It was made very clear to me that that would not be acceptable under the existing rules. Therefore, I wrote to the Prime Minister's office, pointing out to him that Sir Trevor Chinn, Sir Emanuel Kay, Sir Alex Bernstein and Bob Gaveron were all named, known and admitted contributors to the Prime Minister's blind trust. This morning, it was suggested that Mr. Max Mosley and Mr. Bernie Ecclestone were also contributors to the blind trust.
 Mr. Bruce : I notice that the Secretary of State, who had a very easy question from me, did not give us the target for the next 12 months. He keeps prevaricating. May I give him an easier question? Dorset never had a problem with waiting lists until this Government came to power. He says that the extra money was given to areas where sparsity was a factor. Dorset must be one of the sparsest counties, so why have we had one of the smallest amounts of money? Why is no attempt being made to keep what the Government said was a top-priority promise?
7.  Mr. Ian Bruce : What has been the trend in NHS waiting lists since May 1997; and what targets he is setting for the next 12 months. [13815]
8.  Mr. Jim Cunningham
 Mr. Cunningham : Can my hon. Friend ensure that the principal aims of the Government's policy to cut the numbers of young people and teenagers smoking will be maintained?
 Mr. Jim Murphy  (Eastwood) : It is appropriate that the right hon. Gentleman should give way at the point when he is discussing short-term contracts and security of tenure. If his performance does not improve in this debate and others, perhaps that is what we will be talking about this afternoon. 728
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : There is not a single word that my hon. Friend has uttered so far with which I have disagreed. Is not this Bill—although bad and damaging—but a halfway house? Following the logic of my hon. Friend's thesis, is it not an interim step to the wholesale abandonment of the power to control British monetary policy and interest rates outwith the United Kingdom altogether—to a European central bank that we do not elect and cannot remove?
 Mr. Gunnell : May I say to my right hon. Friend that the extra money to stop waiting lists rising enormously this winter is welcome? What flexibility will there be in the spending of that money between the health service and social services? Dealing with the problem means tackling bed blocking and putting money into social services. How will that flexibility be applied locally? Who will be involved in the decision making?
 Mr. John Hayes  (South Holland and The Deepings) : Will the hon. Lady define more closely what she describes as "political interference" and the difference, in her estimation, between such interference and the exercise of political will as accountable to the electorate?
 Mr. Maples : May I remind the hon. Lady, that in a departmental press release on 14 July, she said:
 "Certainly we want to see an end to tobacco advertising in the form of sports sponsorship"? The Daily Telegraph "The decision to propose an exemption for Formula One is one that has my total support."
 Mr. Maples : Given that one of the "Health of the Nation" targets was a reduction in teenage smoking, and given that the Minister refused to tell us what she really thought about that issue in answer to my previous question, perhaps she will try to answer this one. Last week, when she was in some difficulty on the issue, she said that she had acted on the advice of the Secretary of State. He was conspicuous by his silence. Does it ever occur to her that perhaps he set her up?
 Mr. John D. Taylor  (Strangford) : I am thoroughly enjoying the right hon. and learned Gentleman's speech and I agree with most of it. However, I do not understand the consistency of being against an independent bank in the United Kingdom but in favour of control by an independent bank in Europe.
6.  Mr. Whittingdale
 Mr. Whittingdale : In conducting his survey, does the Secretary of State intend to take account of the effect of introducing a minimum wage, which is bound to cost the NHS tens of millions of pounds? Can he guarantee that the NHS budget will be increased to cover that cost and that it will not be met at the expense of patient care?
 Mr. Vaz : The hon. Gentleman has not heard what I have to say, because he was not a Member of Parliament when I last spoke about BCCI. He has not been able to follow the argument. Clearly, the Bill will enable people who put their faith in British banks, and who therefore deposit their money in British banks, to know that there is an independent regulatory and supervisory authority.
 Mr. Vaz : The FSA is a new organisation which will be concentrating on supervising banks, and it will have the regulatory power to do so. With the greatest respect, I have to say that the involvement of the then Deputy Governor of the Bank of England, now the Governor, and all his officials at the Bank meant that there was not the necessary independence. The Bank did not have the necessary credibility to supervise BCCI properly. The hon. Gentleman has obviously not been listening to what I said. Had there been proper supervision, the mistakes that were made over BCCI would not have occurred.
 Mr. Keith Vaz  (Leicester, East) : I welcome the Bill and pay tribute to my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer for his boldness and determination in attempting to reform one of our most redoubtable institutions, the Bank of England. I congratulate him on the Bill's provision for transferring control of interest rates to the Monetary Policy Committee. For far too long, our economic strategy has been characterised by the boom and bust policies preferred by the Conservative party. The Bill will guarantee the fiscal and monetary stability that our economy badly needs. 777 778 "the Bank's supervisory approach to BCCI was in my opinion deficient". "the Bank did not pursue the truth about BCCI with the rigour which BCCI's market reputation justified". "so off-hand as to suggest a lack of interest." "failed to live up to the task."
 Mr. Vaz : —the hon. Gentleman will have heard the Chief Secretary to the Treasury refer specifically to BCCI and Barings and the need for independent regulation. 779 "the Bank of England's general approach to supervision has served this country well"—[ Official Report
 Mr. Vaz : Unfortunately, the hon. Gentleman has not read the Bill. He will see that the Bill deals with transfer of regulatory functions from the Bank of England. My speech therefore has absolutely everything to do with the Bill. Had he been in the Chamber for the opening speeches—
 Mr. Keith Vaz  (Leicester, East) : I welcome my right hon. Friend's proposals for the independent supervision of banks. He will not be aware of this, but in another part of the House today a meeting was taking place of the former depositors with the Bank of Credit and Commerce International. He knows that in 1991, when that bank closed, our right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was then in opposition, made a strong and impassioned plea for an independent supervisory system. Does he hope that, as a result of these moves by the Government, there will be greater scrutiny of banks to prevent a repeat of the sort of tragedy that occurred for the victims of BCCI?
 Mr. Kenneth Clarke : On a more serious point, I am not concerned about the Chancellor's granny, but I may be leaping in where the Chief Secretary feared to tread. Everybody seems to be very keen on confirmatory hearings. Is the idea that the Treasury Select Committee will cross-examine all the aspirants on their views on monetary policy? Will it award them marks them out of 10 in relation to their competence? Will it insist on more
 748
 Mr. Kenneth Clarke : We have 12 months in which my approach may prove to be wrong, although everybody forecast that inflation would fall in the second half of this year. My point was about overkill and excessively deflationary policies. My argument was that five increases
 750
 Mr. Kenneth Clarke  (Rushcliffe) : It is a pleasure to follow the right hon. Member for Llanelli (Mr. Davies). I agree with a substantial number of his points. In fact, he is probably a more severe critic of the Bill than I am. He gave an absolute reason, in his opinion, for voting against it. He referred to a central point, which my right hon. Friend the Member for Hitchin and Harpenden (Mr. Lilley) also pursued—but which, astonishingly, was not mentioned by the Chief Secretary—which is that the Bill contradicts everything that the Labour party said throughout its period in opposition up to the time of the election, and in the manifesto on which it fought the election. 738
 Mr. Kenneth Clarke : I will give way in a moment, but I must explain the dilemma. It is possible that these decisions are debatable; it is also possible that the eight wise men on the Monetary Policy Committee are getting it wrong, could get it wrong in future and should not be allowed carte blanche. 742 743 744
 Mr. Kenneth Clarke : No, they would not. We would have fought the election after several interest rate increases. By the time the election came, we would probably have had the four or five that we have had now. My point is that they would have been wrong. Such increases imposed in that way were unnecessary.
 Mr. Kenneth Clarke : Yes, as I mentioned the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Kenneth Clarke : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend for that tribute on the policies on which we agreed before the election. Is he aware that his clear description of the desirability of a monetary committee being entirely independent to give advice to the Chancellor is Labour party policy from the last general election? Its 1997 business manifesto stated:
 "For the Bank of England, we propose a new monetary policy committee to decide on the advice which the Bank of England should give to the Chancellor."
 Mr. Kenneth Clarke  (Rushcliffe) : A few moments ago, the right hon. Gentleman seemed to imply that he did not expect that conflict would ever occur between the objectives of low inflation, growth and higher employment. Does not the Bill contemplate that such conflict might arise? It states that the pursuit of growth and employment can be followed by the Bank of England, but subject to the overriding requirement to hit the inflation target.
 Mr. Llew Smith : As we have now passed responsibility for interest rates to the Bank of England, if the rate that the Monetary Policy Committee sets brings about stable prices but creates unemployment, what powers will the Government have? If we join a single currency and hand over even more powers to the European central bank, what powers will the Government have if unemployment rises?
 Mr. Llew Smith  (Blaenau Gwent) rose
 Mr. Llew Smith : As the Minister is aware, this week, in my constituency and throughout the land, we are
 702
 Mr. Malcolm Bruce  (Gordon) : The Government have now agreed in principle on the policy of preparing for entry to monetary union. Given that the Bank can operate short-term interest rates only on the terms that the Chief Secretary has already outlined, what will the Government do to bring about convergence on short-term interest rates before preparing the ground for possible entry?
 Mr. Malcolm Bruce : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way on that?
 Mr. Bruce : The right hon. Gentleman said at the beginning of his speech that the Bill hands away the Chancellor's most important responsibility. If that is what he believes, should he not be taking it back, not seeking to create an independence that is irreversible?
 Mr. Malcolm Bruce : The right hon. Gentleman's views on the matter are well known. Is he telling the House, however, that, among his decisions, he accepts no responsibility for the inflationary pressures that have led the Bank to make its current decisions? Does he really believe that, throughout, he has been right and the Bank has been wrong?
 Mr. Bruce : The right hon. and learned Gentleman is entitled to his opinion. He has declared it robustly and the next 18 months may test it out. He also said in his speech, and has just repeated it, that he might have made adjustments earlier. Had he done so, the situation might have been different now. [HON. MEMBERS: "He did not say that."] Yes, he did.
 Mr. Bruce : That is a categorical statement about a matter of opinion, and that is the difficulty that arises in such cases. Such arguments are ultimately fruitless, because in reality someone has to make an objective economic decision. If a Chancellor appoints an independent committee to make the decision and then overrules it on the grounds that he knows best, he is effectively deciding that political, rather than economic, considerations will determine the management of monetary policy. 751 752 753
 Mr. Malcolm Bruce  (Gordon) : I am glad to be called at last to speak in this debate, not least because there is more united support from the Liberal Democrats for the Bill than from Labour or Conservative Members. The latter appear to be somewhat confused and incoherent on the matter.
 Mr. Bruce : The Economic Secretary knows that that is not a clear statement of operational independence, which is a clear policy that has been well discussed. Labour politicians, when in opposition, did not make their support for it clear. However, that is history. The Government's decision is welcome and I am happy to support it. Indeed, much of the detail is along the lines that we advocated. We would have preferred a more radical review of the structure of the bank, and we proposed that its name be changed to the United Kingdom reserve bank, with full statutory regional representation on the board of management or the court. Nevertheless, the Government have gone a long way towards our proposals.
 Mr. Malcolm Bruce : The right hon. Gentleman described the Bank of England's decision to put up interest rates last week as a "kick in the guts". The inflation figures were released today. Who does he think was right? What would he have done, and how would he have justified his actions?
 Mr. Todd : I thank my right hon. Friend for his answer, which will be welcome in my constituency. I hope that it will be possible to provide a breakdown of that expenditure to health authority level in the near future. Is my right hon. Friend aware that I met representatives of my local health authority shortly before his very welcome announcement and that they expressed concern about the mounting crisis this winter? I am sure that the money will be very well spent in our area.
1.  Mr. Todd : How much extra money has been made available to the Trent NHS region over the winter period. [13741]
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : With this, it will be convenient to discuss also Lords amendment No. 9.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I ask hon. Members to leave the House quickly and quietly if they are not taking part in the debate.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. Win the hon. Member for Finchley and Golders Green (Dr. Vis) be seated? He should not address the Chamber from those Benches, as they are not part of the House.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The hon. Member for Finchley and Golders Green was outwith the precincts of the Chamber, so the hon. Member should carry on with his speech.
 Sir Michael Spicer : I hesitate to interrupt a most enjoyable and very interesting speech. The hon. Lady is correct in her description of German interest rate levels and how they compare with ours, and many hon. Members will agree with her comments. Does she agree that the task of trying to make the economies of Britain and Germany "converge"—to use the current idiom—is pretty well impossible?
 Sir Michael Spicer : That is a let-out which is written into the Bill. 768
 Sir Michael Spicer  (West Worcestershire) : Opposition Members found that a most enjoyable speech. I look forward to seeing how the hon. Member for Hackney, North and Stoke Newington (Ms Abbott) votes tonight after such a wonderful speech. Her colleagues on the Government Front Bench looked pretty grim throughout most of it.
 767
 Sir Michael Spicer : The hon. Gentleman puts the matter in terms that worry me greatly. Once the bank starts to think of matters other than the narrow remit of the monetary policy it should set in order to achieve a target given to it by politicians, we are in dangerous territory. The Times "In the long run, public support must be any central bank's overriding objective." "That is why it was right to raise interest rates yesterday but equally the Bank cannot afford to be acquiescent in high unemployment or snuff out economic growth." 769
 Sir Michael Spicer  (West Worcestershire) : Can the Chief Secretary confirm that his definition of an open mind was to say that in Committee he would reject any amendment to provide for a measure such as we have been discussing?
 Mr. Mike Wood  (Batley and Spen) : As the first Labour Member for Batley and Spen and someone who has lived there since 1976, I cannot believe that any hon. Member is unaware of my constituency's precise location, but perhaps for the record I should fix its geographical location at the very heart of West Yorkshire, with a northern boundary that is co-terminous with both Bradford and Leeds. 754 755
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton : While the prospect of any future charges for prescriptions is immensely important to pensioners and to all elderly people in this country, has the Minister given any thought to another related matter: the ability of people to fund their retirement, and particularly their need for residential or nursing care? The previous Government advanced proposals in that area: are the new Government considering the matter as part of the review?
 Mr. Gibb : I agree with the hon. Lady that the rise in sterling has been damaging to large parts of the economy, but will she explain how the Government's proposal will lead to a depreciation of sterling?
 Mr. Gibb : Did the hon. Lady not say in the Treasury Select Committee that how far the Bank of England deviates from its inflation target, how it deals with output in dealing with shocks, are political issues, but that the Bank of England appears to have great discretion here?
 Mr. Nick Gibb  (Bognor Regis and Littlehampton) : I begin by congratulating the hon. Member for Batley and Spen (Mr. Wood) on an excellent maiden speech. I hope that we shall hear more from him in future. Financial Times "will weaken democratic control over a vital area of public policy."
 Mr. Gibb : I shall come back to that point in a minute, but France and Germany currently have levels of unemployment that are twice as high as ours. The Conservative Government, by adopting a balance between sensible monetary and fiscal policies, achieved a steady and stable economy. Any number of trendy panaceas proposed and adopted by the present Government will not change that truth. "although there may be a statistical relationship between central bank independence and low inflation, no causal relationship can be established."—[ Official Report 788 "An important reason to expose central bankers to elected officials is that, just as the latter may have an inflationary bias, the former may easily develop a deflationary bias. Shielded as they are from public opinion, cocooned within an anti-inflationary temple, central bankers can all too easily deny that cyclical unemployment can be reduced by easing monetary policy."
 Mr. Gibb : I agree with every word that my hon. Friend says. The decision to join a single currency is part and parcel of the desire to hand over to somebody else—anybody else—economic decisions that the Government know they cannot trust themselves to take. That is why they went on about their promise not to raise taxes. That is why they made such a song and dance about sticking to Conservative spending plans. That is why the first thing that the Chancellor did was to give up his right to conduct monetary policy. Even new Labour does not trust new Labour. "We will reform the Bank of England to ensure that decision making on monetary policy is more effective, open, accountable and free from short-term political manipulation." "biggest step in economic policy making in Britain since world war two." 791 "For what purpose would they use interest rate policy? In order to try to secure an artificial exchange rate, or to control the domestic money supply? The Bank of England is well known for its attachment to interfering with the exchange rate, and could never be trusted to operate interest rate policy for the sole purpose of domestic stability."
 Mr. Gibb : The Government and the Chancellor say that it is the Bank's responsibility to determine interest rates, but now the hon. Gentleman is saying that the Chancellor is in favour of the five rises in interest rates since the general election. 789 "the objectives of the Bank of England shall be— 
 (a) to maintain price stability and (b) subject to that, to support the economic policy of Her Majesty's Government". The Times "with a view to accommodating commerce and business." "Setting interest rate objectives requires feel, touch and sensitivity."—[ Official Report 790 "Central banks will only succeed in delivering low inflation if they reflect fundamental support for price stability in society."
 Mr. Gibb : Before moving to part III, can the right hon. Gentleman point out where in the Bill there is any mention of the Treasury Select Committee? Are we to rely on its existing powers and the letter from the Chancellor to its Chairman of 6 May?
 Mr. Nick Gibb  (Bognor Regis and Littlehampton) : Will the Chief Secretary give way?
 The Minister for London and Construction (Mr. Nick Raynsford) : I beg to move, That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said amendment.
 Mr. Raynsford : I beg to move, That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said amendment.
 Mr. Raynsford : I feared that the hon. Gentleman would pursue that point: it is a complicated one, and I ask him to bear with me while I explain the circumstances.
 Mr. Raynsford : The hon. Gentleman is talking about something that is not relevant to the specific Lords amendment. If he consults the procedures of the House, he will realise that he is speaking wide of the mark.
 813
 Mr. Raynsford : I beg to move that this House doth agree with the Lords in the said amendment.
 Mr. Raynsford : I beg to move, That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said amendment. 815
 Mr. Raynsford : I beg to move, That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said amendment.
 Mr. Raynsford : I beg to move, That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said amendment.
 Mr. Nigel Beard  (Bexleyheath and Crayford) rose
 Mr. Nigel Beard  (Bexleyheath and Crayford) : The United States and all the other nations in the European Union have separated fiscal control from their
 787
 Mr. Nicholls : The right hon. Gentleman will be aware that waiting lists in Cornwall will rise dramatically if the health authority there carries out its proposal to close four community hospitals. Is he aware that the people of Cornwall regard the so-called public consultation as a complete sham, bearing in mind that the chief executive has said that he would close those four hospitals even if he had unlimited resources? Given that the Secretary of State, to his credit, has on a number of occasions paid due credit to the work done by community and cottage hospitals, will he avoid passing judgment on what the eventual plans may be, but use his residuary powers to quash the present public consultation process and introduce a new one in which the public could have confidence? He acted with commendable speed last week to deal with a crisis in Exeter. Will he act today and intervene to safeguard the position of the people of Cornwall?
 Mr. Boateng : No, it is thoroughly unacceptable. The two-hour time limit for registration was introduced to ensure that one-off or less formal, unremunerated short-term care arrangements were not unnecessarily burdened by unworkable regulations.
 Mr. Boateng : The Under-Secretaries of State for Education and Employment, my hon. Friends the Members for Birmingham, Yardley (Ms Morris) and for Newport, East (Mr. Howarth), and I will be consulting, early in the new year, on our plans to develop an integrated regulation and inspection system that will promote day care and early-years education for young children, provide a quality assurance framework in which parents can have confidence and reduce bureaucracy for providers. That was another commitment in our general election manifesto which we are carrying out.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Paul Boateng) : I have no plans to visit Solihull hospital, but I will conduct an official visit to Birmingham Heartlands and Solihull NHS Trust in the near future. I am looking forward to it enormously.
 Mr. Boateng : The NHS in Solihull is certainly safe in our hands: I am not so sure that it was safe in the hands of the previous Government.
 Mr. Paul Burstow  (Sutton and Cheam) : I thank the Minister for considering the discussions in Committee and on Report in which I raised the matter and which led to the amendment. It is important that the courts can have regard for the consequences for council tax payers and for the finances of the local authority, but I ask the Minister to assure the House that the Bill does not preclude the courts from considering the impact of discharge terms. Having read the debate in the other place, especially in Committee, I was struck by the remarks of the Lord Donaldson, who said:
 "I just do not know whether a court could set aside discharge terms."—[ Official Report, House of Lords,
 Mr. Bottomley : Will the hon. Gentleman pass on to his right hon. Friend the message that I am sorry that the Secretary of State was not chosen to answer this question, as, the day after the Treasury Minister made that comment, the right hon. Gentleman was quoted, presumably accurately, as saying that prescription charges for the elderly are "politically unacceptable" and will be brought in only over his "dead body"? Hansard
11.  Mr. Peter Bottomley : What is his policy in respect of future prescription charges for pensioners. [13819]
 Mr. Bottomley : I am grateful to the Minister for allowing me to ask a question, rather than to stop me. During the next two or three years—to the middle of this Parliament—does the right hon. Gentleman expect that the major gap between interest rates in the United Kingdom and those in countries planning to be in the first wave of economic and monetary union will stay the same, increase or reduce? Is it simply a matter for the Bank of England, or do the Government estimate that economic and financial considerations will come together to produce a reduction in the interest rate gap?
 Mr. Peter Bottomley rose
 Mr. Peter Bottomley  (Worthing, West) rose
 Mr. Lilley : My right hon. and learned Friend said that the committee might have made adjustments earlier, but that it would have been wrong to do so.
 Mr. Lilley : The answer is that the Government have already begun to campaign for entry to the single European currency in the next Parliament, and we have begun to campaign against it. That is sensible in the circumstances. It has nothing to do with the repealing measures taken by the Government in this Parliament.
 Mr. Lilley : No, I shall wind up, if I may.
 Mr. Lilley : We want the Bank to be independent, and those who are members of the court to be independent in offering advice, not in operational control of interest rates. That is the system which we had established in the previous Parliament, and it was working well. The question is whether it would work better as a result of the changes that the Government propose.
 Mr. Lilley : On that, or on the subject of the debate?
 Mr. Lilley : I entirely agree with my right hon. and learned Friend. It is alarming that the Government intend to make the Bank less independent, as well as giving it different responsibilities. That is a serious matter, which we shall continue to criticise during the passage of the Bill.
 Mr. Lilley : I refer the hon. Gentleman to the speech by the hon. Member for Hackney, North and Stoke Newington, in which she said:
 "In May 1995," "then Chancellor refused to accept the Governor's advice … Two years later, we know that the former Chancellor's judgment was correct … he consistently called the economy right more times than Eddie George." 729
 Mr. Lilley : The worst of both worlds would be a bank that was influenced by the Chancellor, but for which he would not take responsibility to the House. That is precisely what he is creating through the Bill. I am grateful to the hon. Member for Hackney, North and Stoke Newington for giving me the opportunity to make that point, and for her considerable contributions on the subject, which I have read with great interest.
 Mr. Lilley : I will in a moment, if the hon. Gentleman will forgive me. I am not suggesting that members of the monetary policy committee will take instructions directly from the Chancellor, but we should recall what has happened elsewhere. Professor Gowland records in an interesting book published by Politeia that at the Federal Reserve in America the chairman appointed by Nixon was so anxious
 "to facilitate Richard Nixon's re-election in 1972" "took precedence over all other objectives. He was apparently prepared to manipulate interest rates at the President's request."
 Mr. Lilley : The right hon. Gentleman keeps trying to make policies on principle without telling us what the principles are. Accountability is very important. The Chancellor should accept responsibility for important matters such as people's jobs, and the value of their savings and their debts. We cannot accept his attempt to try to escape the blame for taking difficult decisions. "after consultation with the Chancellor of the Exchequer". 727
 Mr. Lilley : No, I have given way to the hon. Gentleman already, and I am drawing to a close.
 Mr. Lilley : It may be that. I can think of only one saving grace in the Bill: it will take decisions away from
 734
 Mr. Lilley : The Parliament at which we intend to get elected. We did not win in this Parliament, I regret to say, so we have no influence over this Parliament—we have only limited influence, unless we get the support of the hon. Member for Hackney, North and Stoke Newington, and teams of her cohorts and colleagues in voting down the Bill tonight. It is a badly drafted, ill-thought-out and potentially damaging Bill.
 Mr. Lilley : The logic of our position is that we can influence only one Parliament—the next Parliament—at a time. The logic of the right hon. Gentleman's position is that, by signing a treaty— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Lilley : The hon. Gentleman should perhaps read my speech, so that he will be able to take it in word by word. 732 733
 Mr. Lilley : The position of the Chief Secretary may well result in that conclusion, because, if he says that measures based on the principles in the Bill are right for Britain, how can he say that different measures based on different principles in the Maastricht treaty are also right for Britain? Why did he not answer that question? Why did not the Government model the Bill on the Maastricht paradigm? Because they believe that the measures in the Bill are superior. Why, then, do they want to trade in the Bill in a few years' time for the Maastricht independent central bank?
 Mr. Lilley : That fear is shared on both sides of the House, although evidently not on the Government Front Bench. I shall deal with that in due course. [Interruption.] 730 Financial Times 731 "One danger"—
 Mr. Lilley : The right hon. Gentleman may think that Robert Chote is a straw, but I think that he made a cogent case in his Social Market Foundation pamphlet, as did Professor Gowland in his Politeia pamphlet. "One danger is that the economy will suffer if the Bank uses interests rate policy to pursue low inflation while the Government uses budgetary policy to pursue employment, growth and votes. This is a recipe for high interest rates, excessive Government borrowing and an overvalued exchange rate."
 Mr. Peter Lilley  (Hitchin and Harpenden) rose
 Mr. Lilley : Does the right hon. Gentleman agree with these comments about that approach:
 "A blanket approach, the creation of a 'super-regulator', won't do. I know that it makes for convenient shorthand but the idea that if all the regulators are rounded up and put into one building then we will have a system that will solve all our problems simply won't wash"?
 Mr. Lilley : I shall certainly tell the Chief Secretary about that in my speech.
 Mr. Lilley : I certainly would not have introduced the sort of Budget that, in light of the Bank of England's statements, made increases in interest rates inevitable if the Chancellor failed to take the Bank's advice.
 Mr. Lilley : I can tell the hon. Gentleman in detail my position on the principle, and I will tell him my response to that and all such questions, which I have given previously: we will never give a knee-jerk commitment from the Dispatch Box to repeal decisions taken by the Government until we prepare our manifesto. We shall not get into the position that the Labour party did by endlessly promising to repeal things and then not doing so.
 Mr. Lilley : If I may make some progress, the hon. Gentleman may find that I answer the question that he has been prompted to ask. 726
 Mr. Lilley : The hon. Gentleman has heard me say before, and will hear me say again, that we will give no knee-jerk commitments to repeal Bills passed by the House, even if we oppose them. Shortly before the next general election, we shall consider which measures the
 725
 Mr. Lilley : All right.
 Mr. Peter Lilley  (Hitchin and Harpenden) : The handling and contents of the Bill reflect four of the Government's most worrying characteristics. The first is their contempt for the parliamentary process. The Chancellor could not be bothered to wait to inform the House of what the Prime Minister described as
 "the biggest step in economic policy-making since world war two", 724 "I believe that any consideration of whether to give the Bank operational responsibility for setting interest rates must be preceded by two steps", "the Bank must demonstrate a successful track record in its advice and build greater credibility."
 Mr. Lilley : I shall explain that in two minutes with great clarity, if the hon. Gentleman will allow me to complete my point.
 Mr. Lilley : I will in a second, but I thought that the Chancellor might want to intervene and explain what track record was established in the first four days of this Parliament that enabled him to set aside an assurance given authoritatively to the British people not long before the general election, but perhaps the hon. Gentleman can give me information that the Chancellor seems reluctant to give the House.
 Mr. Pike : Is it not important that, in that exercise, the Government have recognised that health inequalities exist in this country? Doctors and nurses throughout the country welcome the fact that we not only recognise but
 700
9.  Mr. Pike : What changes he proposes to make to the "Health of the Nation" strategy. [13817]
 Mr. Quentin Davies : The Secretary of State is wrong, because the chief executive of Lincolnshire health authority, whom the previous Government appointed, is now—I am glad to say—leaving his post, and is being replaced by Mr. Jeavons, a new appointee by the present Government.
 Mr. Simon Hughes : In the Government's campaign against waste in the health service—which we fully support—will they make sure that NHS trusts and civil servants get the message that projects which are wasteful of taxpayers' money and time and which duplicate perfectly good existing resources will not be approved? When Ministers come to their conclusions about the London review, will they make sure that approval is not given to the spending of between £100 million and £200 million of taxpayers' charitable money on building a new hospital across the river on the St. Thomas's site when £200 million has been spent on building a new hospital on the Guy's site, and when it is proposed that 18 floors of the Guy's hospital buildings will be left empty?
 Mr. Steve McCabe  (Birmingham, Hall Green) rose
 Mr. Dalyell : May I assume that fertility treatment and abortion will remain reserved powers?
13.  Mr. Dalyell : What consultation he has had with the Scottish Office since the referendum on the transfer of responsibilities which are currently his to the Scottish Parliament. [13821]
 Mr. Tim Boswell  (Daventry) : Just like that.
 Mr. Boswell : I take precisely the view of the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer. 801
 Mr. Tim Boswell  (Daventry) : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Boswell rose
 Mr. Loughton : This is all very interesting, and many of us have heard it many times before, but could the hon. Gentleman suggest how the successor to the Bank of England in this aspect of regulation—the Financial Services Authority—might do a better job, given that it will be an exceptionally bureaucratic, large and expensive organisation, which will take several years to get its act together? How does the hon. Gentleman think that the FSA will make a better fist of it than he claims the Bank of England has done in recent years?
 Mr. Loughton : Gagging orders.
 Mr. Loughton : I take the hon. Gentleman's point. The fact that I was not here when he last spoke about BCCI
 780
 Mr. Tim Loughton  (East Worthing and Shoreham) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I should be grateful for some clarification. When, in May, the Chancellor made the statement that gave rise to today's debate, the proposal was billed as one of the most important economic measures since the war. As the measure purports to occasion the abdication of such a major responsibility from the Treasury to the Bank of England, is it in order for the debate to be led not by the Chancellor himself but by the Chief Secretary? Is it not customary for holders of high office at least to be in at their own abdication, even if Opposition Members believe that it is a case of premature abdication?
 Mrs. Anne Campbell : Does my hon. Friend share my concern at recent press reports of waste within the national blood transfusion service, and particularly the waste of blood products donated freely for use by NHS patients?
 The Economic Secretary to the Treasury (Mrs. Helen Liddell) : I am loth to interrupt the hon. Gentleman's train of thought, but the issue of the contents
 749 "We will reform the Bank of England to ensure that decision-making on monetary policy is more effective, open, accountable and free from short-term political manipulation."
 Mrs. Liddell : I shall give way shortly.
 Mrs. Liddell : Give me a minute, and I shall willingly give way to yet another member of the Opposition Front Bench, who perhaps will tell us whether the Conservative party is in favour of repealing the Bill.
 The Economic Secretary to the Treasury (Mrs. Helen Liddell) : We have just heard a speech encapsulating the difficulties in which the Conservative party finds itself. The right hon. Member for Wells (Mr. Heathcoat-Amory) could not even decide how long he wanted for his summing up.
 Mrs. Liddell : We have just heard the alternative Opposition reply. It is yet another example of the extent to which Conservative Members find themselves isolated. The Sunday Telegraph: "The CBI is bad news for British industry"? "to maintain price stability and, subject to that, to support the … economic policy" "including its objectives for growth and employment."
 Mrs. Liddell : I think that the right hon. Gentleman is having a second wind in the wind-up. There must be an echo in here, because I have just read out the relevant clause, and he has read it out again and got it the wrong
 802 803
 Mrs. Liddell : In relation to the overall impact on the setting of interest rates in this country, is it not reassuring that, outside the closed atmosphere of the Lobbies of the House of Commons, there will be rational debate about the correct level for interest rates to meet the inflation target? [Interruption.] 804 805 806
 Mrs. Ellman : I thank the Secretary of State for taking such decisive action in an important area that the previous Government neglected so badly. Can my right hon. Friend inform the House how we might improve the patients charter so that we can move from the empty rhetoric of the charter introduced by the Conservative Government and towards a charter with real rights and responsibilities for both patients and staff?
14.  Mrs. Ellman : What guidance has been issued by his Department to protect NHS staff from attacks at work. [13822]
 Mrs. Roe : Can the Minister confirm that healthy living centres will not offer services currently provided by the NHS from the taxpayers' money?
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley : The right hon. Gentleman may be aware that many NHS non-executives fear that they are being attacked by the Secretary of State. There is a large number of outstanding appointments. The system was essentially endorsed after exhaustive examination by Lord Nolan. If the right hon. Gentleman discusses the matter with his noble Friends Baronesses Dean, Jay and Hayman—and many others in this place who served on trusts—he will discover that they are very worried that he will exceed the actions of one of his predecessors who vindictively dismissed 150 appointees when he came to power. Will the right hon. Gentleman state that he has no intention of attacking those NHS non-executives who have done so much for the health service?
16.  Ann Clwyd : If he will make a statement on the regulation of cosmetic surgery. [13824]
 Ann Clwyd : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for that answer. I know that the Government have already set up
 705
4.  Caroline Flint
 Caroline Flint : I thank my hon. Friend for that response. In Doncaster alone last year, 60,000 people did not turn up for their appointments, thus leaving empty
 694
 Fiona Mactaggart : My hon. Friend the Minister mentioned in earlier answers the increase in smoking among young people that occurred under the previous Government. Has she any particular plans to tackle the increase in smoking among young women, as smoking has increased more quickly among them than among young men? Can she give us a preview of the actions she plans to take to target that group, who are extremely vulnerable and at risk of dying in future from their smoking now?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Ms Glenda Jackson) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Dover (Mr. Prosser) on his maiden speech. It is regrettable that so few hon. Members were in the House to hear him give a speech that showed not only his intimate knowledge of his constituency and his constituents, but his dedication to them and their interests. He displayed his generosity by allowing my hon. Friend the Member for South Thanet (Dr. Ladyman) an intervention in his debate. 821 822 823 824
 Ms Armstrong : I beg to move, That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said amendment.
 The Minister for Local Government and Housing (Ms Hilary Armstrong) : I beg to move, That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said amendment.
 Ms Armstrong : Clause 1(2) provides that a local authority may make arrangements with financiers for step-in rights; that is, rights to intervene where the contractor is unable to meet his obligations to the authority or to the financier. The amendment provides that these arrangements can also involve— [Interruption.]
 Ms Armstrong : As we are in the final stages of the Bill, I want to make sure that I get this absolutely right.
 Ms Armstrong : The amendments reflect concerns raised by the hon. Member for Sutton and Cheam (Mr. Burstow) in Committee, as well as in outside consultation. They have two effects. They expressly give a court a discretion in judicial review, as well as in audit review, to determine that a certified contract shall have effect as if the local authority had had power to enter into it and had exercised that power properly. They also require the court, in considering how to exercise that discretion, to have regard to two matters. The court would have to consider the likely consequences of a decision to
 814
 Ms Armstrong : I beg to move, That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said amendment.
 Ms Armstrong : The amendment provides that these arrangements can also involve financiers' insurers or trustees. Amendment No. 9 amends clause 4 of the Bill to provide that a contract between a local authority and a financier's insurer or trustee may be a certified contract and thus may have the protection of clause 2 (1) of the Bill. That is the "safe harbour" provision.
 Ms Armstrong : I beg to move, That this House doth agree with the Lords in the said amendment.
 Ms Armstrong : The amendments clarify a point about the certification requirements referred to in clause 3, and ensure that the requirements for certifying contracts will operate as intended. As long as a certificate states that it has been copied to any persons prescribed in regulations, and confirms that requirements imposed by regulations concerning the issue of the certificate have been complied with, the contractor can be satisfied that the certificate will not be invalidated if it becomes evident that the authority has not in fact done those things.
2.  Jane Griffiths : How much extra money has been made available for the NHS since 1 May. [13809]
 Jane Griffiths : Will my right hon. Friend join me in welcoming the announcement of the allocation of £73 million for the consolidation of the Royal Berkshire and Battle hospitals in my constituency—a project that
 692
20.  Ms Drown : How much money his Department saved by not approving the eighth wave of applications for GP fundholding status. [13829]
 Ms Drown : In the light of that answer, will my hon. Friend review the potential administrative savings that could be made from previous waves of GP fundholding, so that money could be redirected into basic NHS services, such as dentistry, in my constituency? Not only are no new adults in my constituency being accepted on NHS dentist lists, but a recent poll showed that one in three dentists were not accepting new children on NHS lists.
 Ms Winterton : Is my hon. Friend aware of a case in my constituency where a two-year-old child, Ben Chorlton, walked out of a creche provided by a private gym into a nearby bus station? The creche was not registered because it operated for less than two hours per day. Does he believe that it is acceptable for a creche to operate for one hour and 55 minutes per day solely to avoid registration and inspection? Will he meet me to discuss the implications of the case?
5.  Ms Rosie Winterton : If he will make a statement about the future regulation of children's day care services and supervised activities under the Children Act 1989. [13813]
 Ms Kelly : If the right hon. Gentleman believes that the decision to loosen the inflation target—as he put it—is so damaging to the British economy, can he explain why bond yields fell by half a point on the day that the announcement was made?
 Ms Ruth Kelly  (Bolton, West) : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Ms Kelly : I would argue that these decisions are fundamental to the way in which monetary policy is carried out. It is for those precise reasons that I would argue that proper accountability of the Bank is essential. In fact, precisely because of these responsibilities, the Treasury Select Committee has been given much greater powers to examine the Bank's policy and to hold it to account.
 Ms Kelly : I think that I have defined exactly what I mean by political interference. I have argued that the right hon. and learned Member for Rushcliffe played fast and loose with monetary policy and risked stoking up an inflationary boom just because an election was approaching. Financial Times 772 "It is striking that central banks have been reluctant to acknowledge openly that monetary policy has two components, an inflation target and a response to shocks. Provided an inflation target framework is interpreted to include these two distinct elements of monetary policy, then the charge of the critics that inflation targets mean ignoring output is false. Moreover, by allowing the horizon over which inflation is brought back to its target level to depend upon the nature and size of the shocks hitting the economy such a policy … is superior in principle to"
 Ms Kelly : I shall address the impact of interest rates on sterling later. 770 771
 Ms Ruth Kelly  (Bolton, West) : I am grateful for the opportunity to take part in such an important debate. The move to grant operational independence to the Bank of England is certainly the most radical shake-up that has been seen in the operation of monetary policy since sterling's departure from the exchange rate mechanism, and possibly the most radical shake-up since the war.
 Ms Jowell : My hon. Friend makes an important point. There is no single measure that will enable us to be successful in reducing the rate at which people die through smoking. The case of young women is a good example. We will have to work with women's magazines and women's organisations to tackle the glamorising of smoking, which persuades so many women, young and older, to take up smoking. For many poor women, the reason they smoke is that their lives feel hopeless. That is why a range of other Government policies—such as getting young lone mothers back to work and raising educational standards—will all help in our battle to reduce smoking.
 Ms Jowell : There is no U-turn on any manifesto commitment: we will ban tobacco advertising, because we are determined to reduce the rate at which people die through smoking.
 Ms Jowell : As my hon. Friend makes clear, the record of the previous Government is shameful. As a result of their negligence, there has been an increase in the rate at which young people smoke. That is why we are committed to implementing a wide range of measures, which will be set out in our White Paper next year and which are designed particularly to tackle the increasing problem of young people taking up smoking. Most people start smoking before they are 20. That is why it is important to focus on efforts to stop young people taking up smoking in the first place.
 Ms Jowell : The Government are fully committed to banning tobacco advertising and are currently taking an active part in discussions with European Union member states on the draft directive on tobacco advertising.
 Ms Jowell : As the hon. Lady is aware, the principle that determines the spending of lottery money is what is
 701
 Ms Jowell : Since the object of exempting formula one is to ensure that there is less tobacco advertising, not more, it is part of a policy that is entirely consistent with our development of healthy living centres as part of our public health strategy.
 Ms Jowell : My hon. Friend is correct to say that we now have the basis for a public health policy that will work, because we are prepared to confront the fact that, the poorer people are, the worse their health is likely to be. We intend to take action to tackle that. In my hon. Friend's constituency, that action would include reducing the levels of coronary heart disease and lung cancer, where Burnley is among the worst 10 per cent. in the country; and reducing the number of girls under 16 who get pregnant, where Burnley is still well above the national average.
 Ms Jowell : I think that the House will judge that with the contempt that it deserves. The hon. Gentleman's behaviour throughout this matter has been below the standards that people in this country think they deserve. The Conservatives have used nasty smear and innuendo as a way of masking the complete failure of their policies to stop children smoking.
 Ms Jowell : We attach very high priority to tackling inequality in health, and the spending of that lottery money to develop healthy living centres is one way in which we intend to do so.
 Ms Jowell : Work is under way to ensure that healthy living centres, which will be funded from national lottery money, contribute to the success of the Government's health strategy and complement existing provision. They will provide a focus for local, community action to improve health, which is one of the pillars of the Government's health strategy.
 Ms Jowell : We shall publish our Green Paper on "Our Healthier Nation" this winter and we shall take careful note of all the responses we receive to the consultation that follows. We shall use them to inform the new health strategy which we plan to publish in summer 1998.
 Ms Jowell : This Government, unlike the last Government, will ban tobacco advertising. This Government, unlike the last Government, will reduce the rate at which people die from cigarette smoking. The only legacy of the last Government was the fact that health Ministers who stood up and tried to do something about smoking were moved very quickly.
 Ms Jowell : Policies to stop children smoking that work have my total support. A ban on advertising will stop children smoking. Negotiating a global ban on advertising with formula one will stop children smoking. That is our overriding priority.
 Ms Jowell : We intend to make progress with a comprehensive range of measures to stop children smoking and to support the seven out of every 10 smokers who want to give up. The mark of success for our Government will be that we make real progress in reducing the needless death and suffering caused by smoking–121,000 people are dying every year and we are determined to stop that.
 Ms Jowell : It is a measure of the previous Government's failure that one in three 15-year-old girls are hooked on cigarettes before leaving school. That is why our first priority is to cut smoking among children.
 The Minister for Public Health (Ms Tessa Jowell) : In 1996, 13 per cent. of all secondary school children in England were regular smokers, but by the age of 15, 33 per cent. of girls and 28 per cent. of boys were smokers.
 Mr. Cranston rose
 Mr. Ross Cranston  (Dudley, North) : I have only four minutes to make a few points. 796
 Mr. Cranston : Can the right hon. Gentleman tell the House what the Conservative party, if returned to government, would do about the Bill? Would it repeal it?
 Mr. Ross Cranston  (Dudley, North) : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Rev. Martin Smyth : Will the Secretary of State confirm that the Unison recommendation of £4.42 an hour as the national minimum wage would be more than what is earned by 96.4 per cent. of ancillary workers in the health service; by 5 per cent. of clerical and administrative workers; and by 8 per cent. of professional and technical workers? Does he acknowledge that, if those workers were not paid properly, the health service would suffer?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. May I remind the hon. Gentleman that at all times he is addressing the Chair, not the Opposition?
 Sir Peter Tapsell  (Louth and Horncastle) : It gives me great pleasure to be the first to congratulate the hon. Member for Batley and Spen (Mr. Wood) on his excellent maiden speech, to which the House listened with close attention and much pleasure. He spoke in a most interesting way about his constituency and some of its famous figures of the past. He also paid tribute to his
 756 The Guardian 757 "neither the ECB, nor a national central bank, nor any member of their decision-making bodies shall seek or take instructions … from any government of a Member State or from any other body … The governments of the Member States undertake to respect this principle and not to seek to influence the members of the decision-making bodies of the ECB or of the national central banks in the performance of their tasks."
 Sir Peter Tapsell : Yes, that is what I believe. I do not criticise the Bank of England for that—in fact, I have the greatest admiration for the Bank. After the protection of the currency in an international sense, it is the prime duty of a central bank to avoid inflation, and the Bill puts that duty into law; but I object to the Bank being free from political control in that respect. It is one thing to have the Bank advising the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the dangers of inflation, but it is better that the Chancellor, having weighed the advice, should if necessary be able to reject it and subsequently give his reasons for doing so, which was the practice under the Conservative Government. 761 762 763
 Sir Peter Tapsell : Let me finish my response to the hon. Member for North Durham (Mr. Radice).
 Sir Peter Tapsell : I am bound to say that I agree with every word that my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Rushcliffe said on this point. I earned my living as a stockbroker for 35 years, and the research department of the firm in which I worked was nearly always more accurate in its forecasting than the Bank of England. We took pride in that fact, and there was widespread comment in the financial press whenever we were nearer the mark than the Bank.
 Sir Peter Tapsell : I bow to that judgment, which has put me, after 38 years, into a unique position of experience in these matters. I see that the hon. Member for Finchley and Golders Green is rising again and, as it is presumably on a different point, I shall be happy to give way to him.
 Sir Peter Tapsell : I understand, but I shall be happy to give way to the hon. Gentleman now that he is in the House, if you will permit me to do so, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Sir Peter Tapsell : I know Mr. Greenspan and I knew his three predecessors. He has done a good job in the United States and he takes a considerable interest in levels of employment and investment, but the US Federal Reserve bank, or the Fed as it is called, is vastly more subject to pressures and to democratic accountability than anything suggested for the European central bank—there is simply no comparison.
 Sir Peter Tapsell : The occupant of the Chair is being held responsible for a great many things for which I do not think he is responsible. I shall try to answer that intervention within the rules of order. 758 759
 Sir Peter Tapsell : I said nothing of the sort. I said that, in the Division Lobby, I had congratulated my right hon. and learned Friend on his decision to resist pressure from the Bank of England unnecessarily to raise interest rates.
 Sir Raymond Whitney : Does the Minister accept that, given that thousands of young people are interested in motor sports, there is widespread concern about the impact of the Government's recent decision on advertising in motor sports? Does she also agree that, uniquely, be it rightly or wrongly, the conjunction between the allegations of political contributions and the Government's U-turn causes serious concern throughout the country?
 Sir Robert Smith  (West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine) : It occurs to me that that is just about the ratio of funding for local government at the moment: 80 per cent. from central Government, and 20 per cent. raised locally.
 Several hon. Members rose
8.  Mr. Gareth Thomas : What steps the Government are taking to eliminate child labour. [14114]
 Mr. Thomas : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend for those comments. Does she agree that poverty lies at the heart of child labour and the exploitation of children, and that the way to eradicate those problems is to eradicate world poverty?
 Q8. [14144]  Dr. Tony Wright : Will my right hon. Friend confirm that, when the Nolan Committee on Standards in Public Life was established—as long ago as 1995—he, on behalf of the Labour party, pressed immediately for the issue of party funding to be referred to that committee, but the Conservative Government refused to make that referral because they were terrified about what it would reveal? Taking up the points raised on both sides of the House, does he accept that there is an anomaly between the restriction on party spending at constituency level and the lack of restriction at national level? As a matter of principle, is it not the case that, the cheaper our politics becomes, the cleaner it will become?
 Dr. George Turner : Will my right hon. Friend recognise, on reflection. that there is a long history and deep experience of receiving money from industrial sources both national and international in the Tory party? Would it not, therefore, be appropriate that, in looking to a review of the way in which politics is funded, all parties represented in this Chamber should open their books for the past five years so that the public can see what they have been about?
 Dr. Tonge : Does the Minister agree that it is very sad that a country as rich as ours cannot increase its proportion of aid to developing countries? I understand that the Department is to review and redirect funds over the next two years. Will the Minister give an undertaking that the review will be totally transparent and that the House will be told which countries and organisations are to be the winners and losers?
 Dr. Reid : I shall give way briefly to the hon. Gentleman, but I really must finish now.
 Dr. Reid : That depends on which bacteria were released, but, yes, in most cases, that certainly would have been the case. I understand that, because, for very good reasons, many of these matters had to be kept secret at the time—some of them, perhaps, even now—people's suspicions are naturally heightened. That is not automatically the case. There are very good reasons for
 845
 Dr. Reid : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman, who we all know has an almost encyclopaedic knowledge of such matters. From my less than encyclopaedic knowledge, I can confirm my memory that that is correct. That revelation was made, as the hon. Gentleman says, within the past six years. Indeed, there is some concern that, even at that point, without the President's full knowledge and authority, the research was still being carried on. Such revelations during the past decade show that the attitude taken 20 years previously was not as melodramatic as it might seem in the more relaxed atmosphere of a thaw in the icy confrontation. 840
 Dr. Reid : I am grateful, Mr. Deputy Speaker. That is precisely why I brought the apparatus with me. I was not quite sure how one would describe it. It is almost like a fish knife without a middle in it. It is a rectangular piece of metal approximately 1½ in long with a 2 in handle extended on it, round which was wrapped an extremely thin thread, almost of the dimension of a spider's web, which held within it a small number of such bacteria. The apparatus was carried on Waterloo bridge and elsewhere to expose it to the atmosphere, then put away and tested to see whether the bacteria had been killed by the atmosphere. It was as simple as that.
 Dr. Reid : I cannot give a guarantee, because it was never intended that the tests would involve bacteria
 841 842 843 844
 Dr. Reid : I cannot tell the hon. Gentleman that I have read the other 27 documents—I have not. However, I shall look at this and review the risk, in my view, of releasing information, which on its own is sometimes not dangerous but which, when added incrementally to other information in the public sphere, can be of great use to a potential enemy. I will balance that against the political requirements. I will be as open and honest as I can. I will have two caveats, because this is not completely in my power to handle.
 The Minister for the Armed Forces (Dr. John Reid) : I thank all those who have spoken this morning: the hon. Members for Totnes (Mr. Steen), who has had to go to a Committee meeting, for Torbay (Mr. Sanders), for South Dorset (Mr. Bruce), for West Dorset (Mr. Letwin), and for Salisbury (Mr. Key). I congratulate the hon. Member for Teignbridge on having the good fortune and good sense to raise such an important issue. Hon. Members have raised this issue in an extremely responsible fashion, without being uncritical. I assure them that I am aware of both the anxieties and the importance which their constituents attach to it.
 Dr. Reid : If the hon. Gentleman will let me finish this point, it may satisfy his question.
 Dr. Reid : I shall have that investigated. I understand that I am not entitled to go back to those papers. It is a matter not of party politics but of subsequent consecutive Administrations.
 Dr. Reid : As the hon. Gentleman says from a sedentary position, it is to protect civil servants, and the impartiality of their advice depends on such protection. If it did not exist, the advice given might be mitigated by a fear of future impingement on that confidentiality.
 Dr. Reid : I shall give way to the right hon. Gentleman, who has an esteemed past as a Defence Minister.
 Dr. Reid : Yes, I can confirm that. I shall cover that general point in my speech, but at this stage I was dealing with the specific questions asked by the hon. Member for South Dorset. I thought that I was being specific enough by telling him, to clear up any ambiguities, that I understand that previous Ministers were aware of the trials.
 Dr. Reid : I am not sure that the hon. Gentleman is helping to clarify the issues by going into great detail. I can be no clearer than to say that previous Ministers were aware of the trials. I am aware of all the facts that the hon. Gentleman puts and of previous statements, but those events took place 30 years ago, and it is not always immediately apparent to those involved that every aspect of the issue was known to them at the time. 838 839
 Dr. Julian Lewis  (New Forest, East) : In support of the Minister's remarks, may I point out that, in 1992, President Yeltsin confirmed what had been suspected by western intelligence agencies for a long time: that, for 20 years, the Soviet Union had been breaching the 1972 biological weapons convention, whereby it was supposed to have abolished all its offensive biological weapons stocks, and had been carrying out detailed and intensive research on anthrax and other deadly diseases.
 Dr. Julian Lewis  (New Forest, East) : May I draw the right hon. Gentleman's attention to provision F.1 of the treaty, which allows, as he will be aware, for a majority of states, if they deem any state to be guilty of a persistent breach of human rights, to withdraw all voting rights from that state? Will he guarantee that, if, against all our hopes, peace breaks down in Northern Ireland, the situation in Ulster could not be used as an excuse by other European Union members to deny Britain full voting rights?
 Dr. Liam Fox  (Woodspring) : Since 1990, only Britain and Italy have held their share of world trade, while every other European member country has seen a slip. Why should we want to tie ourselves into working practices that have resulted in that?
 Dr. Starkey : As the White Paper stresses the importance of private investment in helping with
 898
 Dr. Vis : I must admit that Amsterdam is not my constituency. I represent the constituency of Finchley and Golders Green.
 Dr. Rudi Vis  (Finchley and Golders Green) : Amsterdam is my home town, so I must be a raving Europhile in the eyes of most people, but I have to admit that, as a Dutch-born person, I have found this a very amusing debate. 989
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (North Essex) rose
 Mr. Jenkin rose
 Madam Speaker : Order. All hon. Members who are on their feet will be heard. Others do not have to listen, but hon. Members who are speaking will be heard.
 Madam Speaker : I think that the hon. Lady's point is well taken by the House and by me. I, too, have never heard such jeering when a new Member has been brought into the House. I told the hon. Member, when he took his seat, that I hoped that he would not join those who have made such noise today.
 Ms Abbott : Is my right hon. Friend aware that more than 300 people in Montserrat are still in temporary shelters? Many of them have been in those shelters for more than two years, often in appalling conditions. Men, women and children are separated only by thin curtains and there is no sanitation. Is she aware of the concern on Montserrat about the slowness of the Government's house building programme?
 Mr. Adrian Sanders  (Torbay) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Teignbridge (Mr. Nicholls) on obtaining this Adjournment debate today. I thank The Western Morning News for its sensitive, non-sensational handling of this issue. The speeches by hon. Members this morning have also been non-sensationalist, and that is the way in which the issue should be treated. "the use of living non-pathogens in trials which might involve exposure of members of the public, subject to rigorous testing of every batch of material in animals." 833
 Mr. Clark : I am most grateful to the Minister for giving way, particularly as I have only just walked into this debate, although I listened to some of the earlier speeches.
 Mr. Alan Clark : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Alan Clark  (Kensington and Chelsea) : It is to protect civil servants.
 Mr. Alan Clark  (Kensington and Chelsea) : In his interesting dissertation on traffic conditions in cities, my hon. Friend may care to consider the propensity, indeed the habitual practice, of some cyclists of using the pavement, which is the proper precinct for pedestrians.
 Mr. Alan Hurst  (Braintree) : I am grateful for the opportunity to address the House on this proposed road. Before I proceed, I should like to congratulate my hon. Friend the Minister on her appointment. I say that not out of sycophancy but because she was good enough to visit my constituency before 1 May and before it obtained most-favoured status. 876
 Mr. Hurst : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman. The population of the old Maldon division, which was formerly part of my constituency, has increased considerably over the past 30 years, and there are proposals that that growth should continue. 877
 Sir Alastair Goodlad : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that abject poverty can be created by sudden natural disaster? What has been his Department's response to the worsening crisis in southern Somalia as a result of flooding of the River Giuba, which has reportedly caused at least 150,000 people to be cast into total destitution over the past day or two in a situation of worsening anarchy?
 Mr. Andrew Mackinlay  (Thurrock) : I shall try to be brief and to emulate the right hon. Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup (Sir E. Heath)—another pro-European—in two respects: I shall speak without notes if I can, and I shall endorse the treaty. Nevertheless, I have one or two reservations about the final text. 943 The Irish Times The Irish Times 944
 Mr. Mackinlay : My hon. Friend says that the treaty cannot be amended. I know that, but we can amend the Bill that brings it into effect. I understand that the amendment that I have canvassed with the Clerks may well be within the terms set out in "Erskine May". I have anticipated the point that my hon. Friend, who has been here many years, has raised. I am well aware of what can and cannot be done to a treaty and a Bill.
 Mr. Andrew Robathan  (Blaby) : I have been listening with much interest to the hon. Gentleman's speech. Does he agree that, to an extent, the use of brown-field sites is a question of urban renewal? If we built sensible housing—dare I say, what abroad would be termed apartments, and what people wish to live in in Paris—instead of building detached housing in the countryside, in which people are encouraged to live, we would kill two
 849
 Mr. Anthony Steen  (Totnes) : Totnes.
 Mr. Anthony Steen  (Totnes) : I have only a few words to say, chiefly to pay tribute to my hon. Friend the Member for Teignbridge (Mr. Nicholls) for bringing the matter to the notice of the House. Clearly it concerns us all in the west country. My hon. Friend does a great service to his constituency and to the rest of Devon by raising the matter.
 Q6. [14142]  Mr. Steen : If he will make an official visit to Dartington in the Totnes constituency.
 Mr. Steen : Since Dartington and the Totnes area of south Devon is a mecca for alternative therapies, and given the increase in the number of people now benefiting from complementary medicines—many Members of Parliament have experienced those benefits and some need the experience even more—will the Prime Minister endorse the view of the King's Fund, supported by Prince Charles? Leading physicians and those involved in complementary medicines are seeking a solution whereby their approach to medicine can go into mainstream medicine.
 Mr. Austin Mitchell  (Great Grimsby) : I apologise for arriving in the Chamber somewhat late. I apologise also for not taking up the remarks of the hon. Member for Somerton and Frome (Mr. Heath). I think that the hon. Gentleman's enthusiasm must be much diminished by the qualifications that he imposed on his endorsement of the treaty. He told us that it would have modest consequences and that it is largely workmanlike—I do not know which parts cannot be placed in that category. He told us also that we can modestly support it. The hon. Gentleman could have added that it is a modestly attended debate. 976 977
 Mr. Mitchell : I do not think that the hon. Gentleman's interpretation of what happened during debate on the Maastricht treaty was quite correct. It was my experience that the opposition was left to some 30 Conservative Members, who were then on the Government Benches, and about 60 Labour Members on the Opposition Benches. There was collusion between those on the two Front Benches to smuggle a treaty through that neither of them particularly wanted but wanted to pass.
 Mr. Mitchell indicated assent.
 Mr. Ben Bradshaw  (Exeter) : Will the right hon. and learned Gentleman explain how his party imagines that the European Union can expand without gridlock unless qualified majority voting is extended?
 Mr. William Cash  (Stone) : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Cash : Will the Foreign Secretary take note of the fact that Mr. Joe Carey, an eminent member of the Court of Auditors, has written an important paper on the way to improve methods of dealing with fraud in the community? In the previous Parliament, there were exchanges on the role of the Public Accounts Committee. The suggestion was made that we should insist on other member states applying the same criteria for determining fraud as we use in our Public Accounts Committee. That would establish a proper network of control over fraud. Is that the Government's intention? Are they pressing for such measures?
 Mr. Cash rose
 Mr. Rammell : Opposition Members have suggested that the British Government should have traded our support for the social chapter for some other gain. Given our vigorous opposition of the previous Government's opt-out on the social chapter and given that we have been lectured about negotiating skills, does my hon. Friend agree that such a stance would have been wholly incredible?
 Mr. Bill Rammell  (Harlow) : I am interested to follow two former Conservative Ministers, one of whom said that Britain should reconsider its membership of the European Union, while the other said that the time was not right, but, by implication, it could well be in the near future. Given that lukewarm adherence to and support for the European Union, it is hardly surprising that we have lacked influence in the councils of Europe over the past 18 years. 957
 Mr. Rammell : Why, then, did not the former Prime Minister, Baroness Thatcher, take a similar route when she signed up to the Single European Act 1985? Clearly, we are dealing with a very different Conservative party today from the one in the 1980s. 958 959 Hansard 960 "I don't think anybody would take us seriously."
 Q5. [14141]  Mr. Bob Russell : Has the Labour party received any benefits from Mr. Ecclestone's donation of £1 million before the election? Was that money used to reduce an overdraft on deposit? What has happened to the interest?
 Mr. Chope : Will the Minister get to the green belt?
 Mr. Christopher Chope  (Christchurch) : The debate has been a partial re-run of the debate initiated by the Conservatives last week to express concern on behalf of our constituents. In that debate, as today, the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Drew) questioned the figures for household projections. He was joined in that today by the hon. Member for North Swindon (Mr. Wills). They are both issuing a serious challenge to their Government. "We do not dispute the figures."—[ Official Report
 Mr. Chope : Under the Conservative Government, the green belt was sacrosanct, both in respect of housing and
 864
 Mr. Chope : I am not going to give way, because I hope that the Minister will have a chance to respond to the debate and will take some interventions from Conservative Members, if, as we fear, his responses are not satisfactory.
 Mr. Chope : Will the Minister accept that every planning policy guidance note was subject to the most thorough consultation process before it was implemented?
 Mr. Christopher Fraser  (Mid-Dorset and North Poole) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend the Member for Poole (Mr. Syms) and to the Minister for allowing me to make a short contribution to the debate.
 Mr. Christopher Gill  (Ludlow) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Gill : Will the hon. Gentleman tell the House what he will do about the problem? Will he reform the common fisheries policy?
 Q4. [14140]  Mr. Pickthall : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the further education sector has been treated appallingly over the past 18 years, having been subjected by the previous Government to alternating periods of neglect, especially in terms of funding, and harassment? Is it not still the Cinderella service of our education system, when it should be regarded as its linchpin? Will he tell the House what the Government are going to do to correct that?
 Mr. David Atkinson : As the Palestinian refugee question is one of the final status issues to be negotiated between Israel and the Palestinian Authority by May 1999—in 18 months' time—does the Minister agree that Governments should be budgeting now for their donations to the cost of resettlement out of the 59 camps, as well as their contributions to the Palestinian Authority and to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency? What initiatives does he have in mind to draw that need to the attention of Governments during the forthcoming British presidency of the European Union?
 Mr. Curry : The concept that my right hon. Friend suggests might be threatened. Equally, I would argue that a Europe without a European Union in it would feel infinitely more threatened by the developments that would have taken place in the post-war world—notably the absence of restraints on the development of Germany, an economic powerhouse with its 80 million people, and the probable preferred partner of the United States—than what threatens us within that framework. But that is a wider debate, which I should be delighted to continue with my right hon. Friend.
 Mr. Curry : I promised to be brief, and I am on my last paragraph. I want to give other hon. Members a chance.
 Mr. Curry : In all qualified majority votes, some get what they want and others do not. Europe is a kaleidoscope of shifting alliances in which nobody is ever dominant and nobody is ever oppressed, and that is the key to it. If my right hon. Friend checked the history of United Kingdom demands and requirements against the occasions on which we lost, he would find that Britain did not usually lose. Indeed, I remember how, when the French did not seem to know what they wanted from the European Union, they lost year after year in the Council of Ministers, because nobody knew whether it was worth negotiating with them. 946 947
 Mr. David Curry  (Skipton and Ripon) : I regard the treaty of Amsterdam rather as I regard many of the young men who pursue my twin daughters. I have nothing much to say against them and not a great deal to say in favour of them. It is a nondescript document, noteworthy largely for what is not in it rather than what is. 945
 Mr. Drew : I agree with the hon. Member. Planning policies should reflect that, so that we prevent an attack on our countryside and make urban centres places where people want to live. 850
 Mr. David Drew  (Stroud) : I am grateful for the opportunity to debate one of the biggest issues that face us as we enter the next millennium: where people are going to live. I do not intend to speak for long, because I know how many other hon. Members wish to speak. 847 848
 Mr. Faber : Does the hon. Gentleman recall the assurance that he gave the House on 1 July that he would make strong representations to the defence review on behalf of the West Indies guard ship, which continues to play a vital role in bringing relief to the people of Montserrat? Can he explain the written answer that I have received from the Secretary of State for Defence saying that no such representations have been made? Did it merely slip the Minister's mind that he gave the House such an assurance, or does he no longer consider the role of the guard ship to be as important as it was?
 Mr. Heath : Perhaps that is so, but even that may not be enough. 974 975
 Mr. David Heath  (Somerton and Frome) : I am a little disappointed—not by the quality of the speeches, of course, but by the lack of passion, in the debate. I had been led to believe that European issues in the House tended to generate more interest and excitement than has been displayed by hon. Members on both sides of the House so far. I wonder whether Labour Members are taking part in a subtle process of de-escalation on the subject of the Amsterdam treaty. 972 973
 Mr. David Heath  (Somerton and Frome) : I hope that the Minister will recognise that the problem is not with
 866
 Mr. David Kidney  (Stafford) : There may be a danger of wishful thinking getting in the way of facts.
 856
1.  Mr. Kidney : What assessment she has made of the potential for the Government's welfare to work proposals to benefit the overseas aid programme. [14107]
 Mr. Kidney : I thank my hon. Friend for that reply. Is it not exciting that Labour's new deal for young unemployed people may lead to more young Britons helping, albeit in this country, to eradicate poverty and suffering in other parts of the world? Is it not pleasing, too, that that answer shows that the Government are capable of working corporately to meet important policy objectives? Does he think that such success might lead to a wider appreciation of and concern for suffering in less fortunate parts of the world?
 Mr. David Lidington  (Aylesbury) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for making that point. Does he accept that in constituencies such as his, or mine on the fringe of the Chilterns area of outstanding natural beauty and green belt, there is reinforced pressure for development because they lie just beyond the fringe of areas where restraint is obligatory?
 Q10. [14146]  Mr. Prior : I return the Prime Minister to his meeting on 16 October. Why did he not refer the result of that meeting to the Nolan committee as soon he could?
 Mr. MacShane : It will be the euro soon.
 Mr. MacShane : Where are they?
 Mr. Denis MacShane  (Rotherham) : Another division.
 Mr. MacShane indicated dissent.
 Mr. MacShane : Who did the hon. Gentleman support?
 Mr. Skinner : When my right hon. Friend sets up the committee to look into the question of money from outsiders and into the cap on national expenditure in general election campaigns, will he bear in mind that the cap for constituencies equates to about £6 million for a party contesting 650 seats? If we also had a national cap of about £6 million, there would not be many pollsters from the Tory party knocking about and there would not be many advertisements in the newspapers, but it would be a level playing field. That would enable us to escape from what has happened in the United States of America, where the problem can no longer be handled because that kind of sleaze has gone too far.
 Mr. Desmond Swayne  (New Forest, West) : The hon. Gentleman has to join them.
 Mr. Desmond Swayne  (New Forest, West) : I shall be extremely brief. We have heard a great deal this evening about the increased powers that the European Parliament has received. The treaty undoubtedly gives the European Parliament new powers, but I draw the House's attention to a matter that has not hitherto been drawn to our attention: the shift in the balance of power between the EU institutions. 990
 Mr. Donald Anderson : I warmly commend the Government's initiative to hold a conference on enlargement in spring next year, keeping all the applicant countries in play. Consistent with the view of a people's Europe, will the Minister consider a parliamentary dimension to that conference?
 Mr. Donald Anderson : That is not the import of what I said. There is clearly a frontier, a creative tension, a dynamic, at any one time between the nation state and supranational demands, to many of which we shall accede for environmental and other reasons—it makes sense. The point is that there is no absolute fixture. The juggernaut towards supranationality has faltered. That is clearly shown in the modest accommodation in the Amsterdam treaty.
 Mr. Anderson : It is one of the hurdles against which actions in respect of sanctions would have to be measured. I should have thought that the right hon. and learned Gentleman would welcome the fact that Europe is based not just on trade and commerce but on a set of values and human rights, which are enshrined, for the first time, in the treaty. It is equally absurd to suggest that within the modest steps on external policy there lurks a future European Foreign Secretary. There is a pragmatic change to meet the needs of the European Union as it develops.
 Mr. Anderson : The ending of the intergovernmental conference was the essential prerequisite, six months afterwards, to the start of negotiations on enlargement. In July, the Commission published its Agenda 2000. In many ways, that document deals with issues that are more relevant to enlargement than institutional changes such as re-weighting—issues such as the changes to the common agricultural policy and structural funds. Agenda 2000, which is to be discussed at the Luxembourg summit, is thus perhaps more relevant to enlargement than the institutional changes. 931 932
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : So awful is the treaty which has been described that perhaps the shadow Foreign Secretary, the right hon. and learned Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard), were he still in government, would have vetoed it. Had he done so, he would have kept the United Kingdom in isolation from Europe, with enormous damage to British interests. 929 "demonstrates that the high tide of integrationism in Europe was reached at Maastricht and that high tide is now at something of an ebb." Financial Times, "the integrationist model of the European Union is approaching the limit of what is politically acceptable to the nation state." "a purpose-free piece of ideological posturing." "A worrying number of Conservatives have become trapped in a damaging mind-set, believing that creating artificial divisions and whipping up synthetic indignation on Europe can deliver political dividends. It cannot."
 Mr. Anderson : No—partly because of unanimity, partly because of the safeguard of the two thirds majority in the European Parliament, and partly, of course, because it would have to go to the European Court of Justice as well. Anyone concerned with human rights should see it as a safeguard, a protection, in respect of the European
 930
 Mr. Anderson rose
 Mr. Henderson : That is an interesting suggestion. It would have been preferable if my hon. Friend had given me some time to reflect on it. I shall come back to him on that. He must understand, however, that the European conference that we propose should take place in February in Britain is for Heads of State and Foreign Ministers. It would send the wrong signals to our European partners and the nations that wish to accede to the EU if we were to dilute the conference. There is a case for fertilisation of parliamentary ideas, for a coming together. If my hon. Friend has specific proposals on that, I would be happy to examine them. "If we sign the present draft of the Amsterdam Treaty, we will abolish our country". "Like most European Treaties, it has some good bits and some less good, but overall it's a balanced document. It simply does not involve some fundamental transfer of power to Brussels". "You can be sure with the Conservatives". 1002
 Mr. Henderson : If the hon. Gentleman is worried about my health, he is welcome to come with me for 10,000 m around Hyde park tomorrow lunchtime. We can talk about it while we are running. Interruption.
 Mr. Henderson : We managed for the first time to secure explicit recognition that NATO is the cornerstone of defence for most member states. The previous
 1003
 Mr. Henderson : I thought that the hon. Gentleman knew the details of European legislation. If he did, he would know that there will be no opportunity to revise that fishing policy for some years. He is stuck with the policy that was agreed unanimously by those who are now Opposition Front Benchers. 1001
 Mr. Henderson : No, I will not give way now.
 Mr. Henderson : I had the misfortune to study economics for four years. That experience taught me never to believe statistics. We can select any years of comparison and obtain any result we want. The real truth about the British economy is what the CBI, the Trades Union Congress and the small business community know, which is that, until we get employability higher up the agenda, there will be no permanent success for the United Kingdom. 999 Interruption.
 The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Mr. Doug Henderson) : After the general election result and the thumping that the Conservative party received, I thought that we might hear from the hon. Member for South-West Devon (Mr. Streeter) something slightly more reflective, signalling a little more thinking and a little more pursuit of objectivity. But no, we heard the same old rhetoric and the same old pursuit of narrow political party advantage.
 Mr. Henderson : Yes, and I should like to reply to some of the major political points made by Opposition Front Benchers. 1000
 Mr. Edward Leigh  (Gainsborough) : The right hon. Gentleman asked what in the treaty should concern ordinary people who usually are not actively interested in politics. Will he comment on article 13—formerly known as article 6a—which is of concern to many religious groups? Religious groups representing 1 million members have written to the Prime Minister about the article, which outlaws discrimination.
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : This will be the first time that I have been able to speak to the House on this subject as a free spirit since July 1988. I hope that the House will bear with me if I am somewhat rusty, and if I cannot slip as readily as the Foreign Secretary and the hon. Member for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson) into the phrases and words of Europe. I used to be able to do so in my dim and distant past, but I cannot any more, and I shall probably not try. 933
 Mr. Forth : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his elucidation. I suspect that he said "faltered" with a slightly regretful tone. I think that he would rather it had not faltered, but, even if it has, that does not alter the debate that we must have about the extent to which our increasing involvement in the Europe that most of our partners want is in our national interest. In the end, that is the only thing that matters to me. 934
 Mr. Forth : Does the hon. Gentleman want me to give way?
 Mr. Forth : The almost universal drive towards enlargement could, at worst, threaten the EU's whole existence, which is why I cannot understand why everyone wants it. With that in mind, the EU would be well advised to develop itself in a way that was sufficiently flexible to allow not only countries such as
 935
 Mr. Forth : I agree with the hon. Gentleman that what defines a nation will rarely, if ever, be found in a treaty.
 937
 Mr. Forth : What? I beg your pardon?
 Mr. Forth : Modest.
 Mr. Forth : Of course my right hon. Friend is right, but does he accept that a time may come when what one might regard as the irreducible elements of a true nation state—which the members of a nation state feel comfortable with and believe to be necessary—might be threatened by unwanted developments in the European Union? Is that a possibility?
 Mr. Forth : Why does the hon. Gentleman assume that, if the United States, with its size and influence, pursues only its narrow self-interest, at the expense of others, the European Union would not be equally prone to doing exactly the same, with or without us?
 Mr. Forth : Peace in our time.
 Mr. Forth : Can my right hon. Friend envisage circumstances in which qualified majority voting might operate against the British national interest?
 Mr. Forth : Does the hon. and learned Gentleman agree that it is not relevant for the House simply to be invited to examine each treaty or measure in isolation, having been reassured that, "There is not much in it—so don't worry"? Does he agree that hon. Members are entitled to consider the totality of treaties and measures and the cumulative effect that they will have on our country and on our relationship with the European Union? At what point will he allow us such broad consideration?
 Mr. Gary Streeter  (South-West Devon) : I am enjoying the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech. He said that, today, the Conservative party will for the first time vote against a European treaty. Is he aware that it is the first European treaty that has not been negotiated by a Conservative Government? Had we negotiated it, it would have been a better treaty and we would have been able to support it.
 Mr. Streeter : That is not a European treaty.
 Mr. Gary Streeter  (South-West Devon) : This has been an excellent debate. From right hon. and hon. Members on both sides of the House, we have heard a cross-section of views about the Amsterdam treaty and our relationship with Europe generally. That is how it should be, because there is, across the country, a whole spectrum of views about our relationship with Europe. Those views have been replicated on the Floor of the House today. We are discussing perhaps the most important issue that faces the nation. There have been genuine differences of opinion, and the House is wise to hear them all. Today we have seen the House of Commons at its best. 993 Hansard. 994 995 996 997 998
 Mr. Geoffrey Clifton-Brown  (Cotswold) : It is probable that all hon. Members in the Chamber favour greater development on brown-field land. The problem is that much of it is contaminated. Does the hon. Gentleman have any idea how we might decontaminate brown-field land and therefore be able to build on more of it?
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : The hon. Gentleman, my parliamentary neighbour, is making a very cogent case for looking very carefully at projections. Does he agree that, if we over-provide, such over-provision—for any of the statistical reasons that he has enunciated—could become self-fulfilling?
 Mr. Foulkes : We shall certainly take account of those points, and we shall raise them on behalf of the United Kingdom Government in our discussions with UNRWA.
 Mr. Foulkes : I agree with every word that my hon. Friend has said.
 Mr. Foulkes : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. Such involvement would be doubly valuable in that it would help young people and the work of organisations such as Voluntary Service Overseas and Oxfam. I understand from the Department for Education and Employment that those organisations have not yet shown an interest, but we are encouraging them to do so, and I hope that from today they will take up such schemes.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for International Development (Mr. George Foulkes) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for raising the issue, but as the schemes are designed to help young people available for work in the UK they cannot be used to support work overseas. However, we are contacting the relevant development organisations to draw their attention to the proposals and to suggest that they examine the scope for participating in the scheme at their headquarters in Britain.
 Mr. Foulkes : The West Indies guard ship plays an especially important role, as I saw myself when I visited Monserrat and met the captain and many of its crew. I have spoken personally to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Defence about the guard ship, which is perhaps why the hon. Gentleman got the answer he did. Officials from our Department are participating in discussions on the strategic defence review, and those points and others will be made.
 Mr. Foulkes : I have some sympathy with the hon. Gentleman, although I am surprised to hear myself say that. He has raised a good point about where the money comes from. If he has had the opportunity to read they White Paper, he will know that the reasonable needs of dependent territories will remain a first call on the aid budget. Barbados has been taken out of the line of decision making; there is a direct link between Montserrat and our Department in the United Kingdom and I talk regularly to the Chief Minister to ensure that things are done as quickly as possible and that the decisions made are implemented as quickly as possible.
 Mr. Foulkes : My hon. Friend is a little out of date on the arrangements for citizens of Montserrat. Special arrangements have been made for them. On his most recent visit to the United Kingdom, Chief Minister Brandt
 896
 Mr. Foulkes : Bilateral assistance to the Palestinian National Authority in this financial year will amount to about £10 million. That is in addition to our £6 million contribution in 1997 to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian refugees and our one-sixth share of the European Commission's 50 million ecu programme of assistance to the West Bank and Gaza. Bilateral funding for the next financial year will be decided early in the next calendar year.
 Mr. Foulkes : I am sympathetic to the point made by my hon. Friend. Expenditure in the past three years has ranged between £3.5 million and £6 million. I am sure that he will agree that £10 million in the current financial year is a significant and welcome increase.
 Mr. Foulkes : I am grateful to the right hon. Gentleman for that question. As soon as I heard about the situation in southern Somalia, I discussed it with our officials, and we have made it absolutely clear—my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State has also made it clear—that we shall make resources available through the international aid agencies working in Somalia. As soon as we get a request we shall consider it sympathetically. I am grateful to the right hon. Gentleman for his support.
 Mr. Foulkes : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. In fact, the purpose of the public-private partnership is to access more money to help poorer countries. It will, however, require legislation, which we hope can be introduced in the next Session. I am grateful to my hon. Friend for indicating his willingness to serve on the Committee that twill examine that legislation.
 Mr. Foulkes : Since the start of the volcanic crisis, around £45.8 million of emergency aid, development assistance and budgetary aid has been committed by Her Majesty's Government to the needs of Montserrat. When I visited Montserrat in September, we agreed to produce a sustainable development plan for the northern third of the island so that people can continue to live there as long as it remains safe to do so. However, as my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State has said, I met the chief scientist of the Montserrat volcanic observatory earlier and there are further doubts about safety which we have to consider urgently.
 Mr. Foulkes : I am beginning to wonder whether the hon. Lady has read the White Paper. It commits the
 894
 Mr. Foulkes : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. We shall be working with our development partners to help poorer countries to create an enabling environment which will attract more investment. In particular, we shall work to reduce initial costs and the perceived risks of investments which support the aim of poverty elimination.
 Mr. Foulkes : We had about 150 detailed written submissions from outside bodies in preparing the White Paper, many of which called for a focus on poverty elimination. Since its publication on 5 November, the White Paper has had an enthusiastic and positive reception, particularly for its commitment to work towards ending world poverty.
 Mr. Radice : The treaty cannot be amended.
 Mr. Radice : Is it not the case that negotiations for enlargement could not begin until the treaty of Amsterdam was signed? In a sense, the whole thrust of the arguments of the right hon. and learned Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard), that somehow the treaty of Amsterdam is blocking enlargement, is nonsense, like so much of the rest of his speech.
 Mr. Radice : I have been listening carefully to the right hon. and learned Gentleman's speech and his arguments against this Bill. Does he still believe that the Amsterdam treaty amounts to a threat to the nation state, as he used to say?
 Mr. Giles Radice  (North Durham) : The right hon. and learned Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard) was in the Government all the time.
 Mr. Brady : Given the importance that the Neill committee has attached to the Government being seen to behave properly, not merely behaving properly, will the Prime Minister undertake to publish the minutes of the meeting that he had with Mr. Ecclestone on 16 October?
 Mr. Harry Barnes  (North-East Derbyshire) : I beg to move,
 That leave be given to bring in a Bill to extend electoral registration for homeless persons. The Big Issue, 909
 Mr. Dawson : Does my hon. Friend agree that the Government were bequeathed a centralised planning system, in which local people had little opportunity to participate in the fundamental decision making at regional and county structure level? As part of his welcome proposals for reviewing regional planning operations and the possible introduction of regional development agencies, will he consider ways in which local people can have the first instead of the last say in the crucial housing needs and the environmental capacity of the areas that they know so well?
 Mr. Hilton Dawson  (Lancaster and Wyre) rose
 Mr. Flight : My apologies, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Howard Flight  (Arundel and South Downs) : I shall confine my remarks to the disastrous employment situation in Europe, which has resulted from the labour and welfare laws associated with the social chapter. If, as the treaty requires, Britain signs up to the social chapter and gives up its opt-out, any laws in relevant areas could be imposed on us.
 991
 Mr. Ian Bruce  (South Dorset) : I, too, congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Teignbridge (Mr. Nicholls) on bringing the debate to the House. As a Member who has been actively involved with the problem for more than a year, perhaps I can throw more light on what has happened already, and what we are trying to do about it. Dorset Evening Echo 829 "I have passed on these letters to the Consultant in Public Health who is investigating the concerns … The health authority became aware of the germ warfare experiments at the same time as the general public and has liaised closely with relevant local authorities as well as with members of the general public who have written in or telephoned the Department of Public Health about specific issues. Mr. Peter Harvey, the Chief Executive of Dorset County Council, has made a file available to the Public Health Department which includes all correspondence received by his Department from the general public detailing their concerns of possible health problems
 830 During July 1997 a Consultant in Public Health from the Dorset Health Authority, together with a Community Infection Control Nurse, made a visit to DERA and were given a presentation detailing the nature of the germ warfare experiments. This confirmed that the bacteria released over Dorset as part of the experiments were not known to cause illness in man at the time the experiments were conducted. However, one of the bacteria, Serratia marcescens, has been subsequently demonstrated to cause acute illness in people with weak immune systems especially in Intensive Care Unit settings. There is currently no research evidence to link the bacteria which were released with birth defects or any chronic illness such as multiple sclerosis or Parkinson's disease. The Communications and Public Relations Department of Dorset Health Authority assisted DERA by providing comments on the final format of the material which they presented at the Roadshows held in Dorset to inform the general public about the experiments. The Authority did not send representatives to attend the Roadshows as it was felt important to maintain a distance between ourselves and the Ministry of Defence in order to demonstrate to the public that the Authority is an independent body. This is important to maintain public confidence in the Authority's ability impartially to investigate public concerns, not just about the germ warfare experiments but also other environmental issues such as electromagnetic radiation from power lines, chemical release from landfill sites and chemical emissions into the air from chemical factories in Dorset."
 Mr. Ian Bruce : Although I echo my hon. Friend's tribute to the work at Porton Down and to the good sense of the scientists involved, would he not agree that to carry out perfectly safe experiments but not tell people would not be acceptable today? On that basis, surely we ought to have all the information that would have been released if the experiments of the past 30 years were going on today?
 Mr. Ian Bruce : I am grateful to the Minister for his response, but will he clarify the following point? The previous Minister made it clear that he could not see most of the ministerial advice given to the previous Labour Administration, and one accepts that rule. Given that the previous Minister could see everything that happened under the Conservative Administration—he gave me assurances about what was happening in that respect—can
 837
 Mr. Ian Bruce : The Minister knows that the noble Lord, Lord Healey has written to the Cabinet Secretary asking that the civil service look again at his past papers and advise him on whether he had been briefed. He denies that he was briefed about those tests, and says that he knew nothing about them. That gives rise to concern.
 Mr. Ian Bruce : I congratulate the Secretary of State on transforming the way of dealing with child labour. The worst problems of many third-world countries are not the young children who work in sensible jobs. Will she focus the attention of her Department on street children, who work on their own behalf and are often badly abused?
 897
 Q9. [14145]  Mr. Pearson : Is my right hon. Friend aware that a relatively obscure Australian called Rolf Harris
 906
 Mr. Ian Taylor  (Esher and Walton) : Many of the aspects of the treaty that the right hon. Gentleman calls advantages are undoubtedly advantages. We were negotiating them when we were in government. The sin of omission in the treaty is the one that he has just put his finger on—its failure to anticipate enlargement. The deficiency in his negotiating position is that, when agreeing to the social chapter, he did not demand a trade-off that the treaty would contain the institutional changes that could have hastened enlargement to the east.
 Mr. Ian Taylor : The hon. and learned Gentleman is going through aspects of the treaty of Amsterdam of which I am heartily in favour, but that is not the issue
 941
 Mr. Ieuan Wyn Jones  (Ynys Mon) : I am grateful for the opportunity to speak in the debate. Like other hon. Members, I have detected a difference in the tone of the speeches being made today. Those of us who still bear the scars of the passage of the Maastricht treaty realise that, although we have heard some pretty sceptical comments from hon. Opposition Members, they cannot summon up
 965 966
 Mr. Jones : The real problem was that there was no concerted European action at the outset. The message driven home to the conflicting parties in the former Yugoslavia was that Europe could take no concerted action. The problem then was that conflict spilled from region to region in the former Yugoslavia because those involved knew that there would be no concerted European action against them. 967
 Mr. James Clappison  (Hertsmere) : I welcome the opportunity to contribute briefly to the debate. I congratulate the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Drew) on securing a debate on this very important subject. He made a detailed speech about the statistics and analysis underlying the housing requirement. I do not propose to go too far down that route. 861
 Mr. Clappison : As the House has already heard, the previous Government signalled to developers that they should try to avoid green belt sites. The House has also heard how very difficult it was to get permission for green belt sites from the previous Government. Indeed, the Opposition are a little troubled that the present Government have already given permission for a significant green belt development in Birmingham. 862 "up for grabs in the sense that it is always up for grabs. There are planning guidances to say that you can build on green belt in certain circumstances." "There is a presumption against inappropriate development in the green belt unless very special circumstances exist which outweigh the harm caused by the development. Proposals in draft plans that would result in releasing land from the green belt must be fully justified. The Government are committed to protecting the green belt and encourage the recycling of land in urban areas wherever possible to meet development needs." 863
 Mr. Clappison : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Clappison : Am I to take it that the Minister is not listening to the UK Round Table on Sustainable Development, and is ignoring the consultation and the figure that it gave? He will know that the target of 50 per cent. is only slightly higher than the 47 per cent. that was achieved in 1992. Will he think carefully about giving a lead for urban regeneration and brown-field development by setting a target?
 Mr. Murphy : I thank my hon. Friend for his comments; those are important points. If we had been left with the previous Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary
 984
 Mr. Murphy : I thank the hon. Gentleman for those comments, and I apologise to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for using the incorrect personal pronoun. "Trying to claim that Amsterdam is some great threat to the nation state is not very sustainable at all." "I do hope that we do not take a bull-headed view of the Amsterdam treaty."
 Mr. Murphy : I thank the hon. Lady for her comments, but thus far we have indeed had a bull-headed approach from Conservative Members. The hon. Member for Esher and Walton may vote with the Opposition tonight, but that will be in direct contradiction to his previous pronouncements. 986
 Mr. Murphy : I have no idea what the latest score is, but if someone wishes to offer that information from a sedentary position I shall be glad to receive it. "put our survival as a nation in question". 985
 Mr. Murphy : Yes, and perhaps in your comments you can identify your constituency and I can—
 Mr. Jim Murphy  (Eastwood) : Contrary to what we have heard from the Conservatives, the treaty is good news for Britain. I congratulate my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister on his tough negotiation and excellent bicycle riding, and my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary, who has proved himself a strong negotiator for British interests in his short time in office. Interruption. 983 The Daily Telegraph "the Social Chapter no longer poses a serious threat"
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : I am grateful to the Minister for giving way. Apart from anything else, I am concerned about his health. I think that he is going to have a seizure in a moment. Will he tell us, without becoming too excited, whether there is any increase in qualified majority voting to which he would object in principle? If so, will he specify it to the House?
 Mr. John Butterfill  (Bournemouth, West) : I very much support what my hon. Friend says, on two counts. First, I represent the borough of Bournemouth, and the economies and prosperity of Bournemouth and Poole are intimately related, so the project would greatly benefit the borough of Bournemouth, which thoroughly supports what my hon. Friend says. Secondly, I declare an interest, as I live on the quay at Poole and can confirm what my hon. Friend says about the congestion and the damage that the lifting bridge does to the environment of those who live there.
2.  Mr. Butterfill : What research her Department has evaluated into the impact of global free trade on third world countries. [14108]
 Mr. Butterfill : Would the right hon. Lady confirm her personal commitment and that of her Department to the principle of global free trade? Will she give an
 890
 Mr. John Gummer  (Suffolk, Coastal) : Will my right hon. and learned Friend also examine this curious anomaly? If one is reasonably friendly towards the idea of a single currency, one must believe that we need as flexible a labour market as possible in those circumstances. Many of the ways in which we would otherwise deal with matters of distortion from one part of the European Union to another would no longer be in our hands. Is it not therefore surprising that those who want a single currency, or who are even more friendly towards the idea than some of my right hon. and hon. Friends, would proceed to make the European Union less flexible
 926
9.  Mr. Gunnell : If she will make a statement on the level of financial assistance to the Palestinian Authority in the current year; and what is the projected level for 1998–99. [14115]
 Mr. Gunnell : I thank the Minister for that reply. Will he give particular attention, when he has some additional funds, to the needs of the Palestinian National Authority and projects in Palestine? I am sure that he is aware of the disappointment felt by people who live in Gaza and the West Bank at the restrictions on their borders. It is important that we ensure that progress is made in that territory to support arguments to put to those who wish to take up arms to support their cause. We need to urge them to join in the work to make the peace process effective.
 Mr. John Home Robertson  (East Lothian) : What is the score?
 Mr. John Whittingdale  (Maldon and East Chelmsford) : I strongly endorse what the hon. Gentleman says. He is right to say that many of my Maldon constituents use the road to Hatfield Peverel to reach the Al2, but is he aware that Maldon continues to grow, and that congestion at Danbury is forcing more people to reach the Al2 via Hatfield Peverel? The problem which he describes is therefore likely to increase in coming years.
 Mr. Wilkinson : May I refer the right hon. Lady to section 3 of her White Paper, which deals specifically
 893
 Mr. Keith Simpson : Can the hon. Gentleman explain how, if there had been some form of common foreign policy, we would, in practical terms, have squared the very different but heartfelt approaches of the German Government and our Government?
 Mr. Keith Simpson  (Mid-Norfolk) : I do not wish to be rude to the hon. Gentleman or to use unparliamentary
 963
 Mr. Laurence Robertson  (Tewkesbury) : The answer to the hon. Gentleman's question is simple. At the 1975 referendum, when two out of three people endorsed our continued membership of the European Community, the booklet, "Britain's new deal in Europe", which was issued by the Labour Government, specifically guaranteed that, if a British Minister objected to any legislation within Europe, that would be the end of the legislation. If the Government are to take us down a different road, they should at least have the courtesy to revisit the British electorate.
10.  Mr. Laurence Robertson : If she will make a statement regarding the Government's intended stance at the forthcoming Ottawa conference in connection with anti-personnel land mines. [14117]
 Mr. Robertson : I thank the right hon. Lady for that answer, and I wish her well in her attempts to secure a worldwide ban. Is she aware that many land mines throughout the world are cleared by children as young as 10? What will the Government do to prevent that?
 Mr. Laurence Robertson rose
 Mr. Laurence Robertson  (Tewkesbury) rose
 Mr. Laurence Robertson  (Tewkesbury) : I have no problem opposing the Bill. My first reason concerns the wider constitutional implications, which have been discussed with great eloquence. I was sent by my constituency to oppose Bills such as this. We heard from my hon. Friend the Member for Rochford and Southend, East (Sir T. Taylor) about the drip, drip, drip process. We are constantly told that there will be no more transfer of power from this country to Brussels, but what do we find? More transfer of power from Britain to Brussels.
 Mr. Quinn : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the Committee on Standards in Public Life should not only be given the widest terms of reference but be asked to deliver its deliberations at the earliest opportunity, not only from the point of view of the people in the country, but with the widest support of the House?  [Laughter.]
 Q2. [14138]  Mr. Quinn : I am sure that many people in Scarborough and Whitby, and indeed in the rest of the nation, will support the Government's intention to introduce legislation on foreign donations to political parties. Does my right hon. Friend agree that not only should the terms of reference— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Öpik : Will the Secretary of State clarify whether, in her view, the north of the island is safely habitable? What plans are there for a large-scale evacuation while a sustainable development plan is being prepared for the island?
 Q11. [14147]  Mr. Todd : Might I change the subject and ask my right hon. Friend whether he is aware that I recently visited Southern Derbyshire health authority to discuss preparations for the winter crisis in health and the appalling state of the health service in my area? Will he tell the House how much Southern Derbyshire health authority has been allocated from the £300 million that has been set aside?  [Laughter.]
 Mr. Martin Bell : Does the Prime Minister agree that the perception of wrong-doing can be as damaging to public confidence as the wrong-doing itself? Have we slain one dragon only to have another take its place, with a red rose in its mouth?
 Mr. Campbell : I shall come to the social chapter in due course, but it is worth putting into context the contents of the treaty, against which we must test whether we are willing to support the Bill. "important and stated reasons of national policy".
 Mr. Campbell : No, I have given way already.
 Mr. Campbell : No, I intend to try to make some progress. 942 "it is necessary to take a view of the treaty as a whole".
 Mr. Campbell : Ah, I see. It is not a European treaty; it has Americans in it. I suppose that the logic of that is that one can trust only the Labour party with the Americans.
 Mr. Campbell : I suppose that there is a lot to be said for self-confidence, particularly after 1 May 1997. It seems that that bonding down on the south coast had some effect and created such an aura of self-confidence that the only treaties that can ever be in the interest of the people of the United Kingdom are those that have been negotiated by Conservative Members. It is quite remarkable. I therefore wonder why Conservative Members attach such importance to the treaty establishing the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation—the principal bulwark of British defence—which was negotiated and entered into by a Labour Government.
 Mr. Campbell : To echo something that was said earlier in the debate, I do not know whether my next comment will damage me more than it will damage the right hon. Gentleman. I thought that he made an honest speech. I have absolutely no difficulty with the totality of legislation currently directing the United Kingdom's membership of the European Union, and the Liberal Democrats have never had such a difficulty. 940
 Mr. Campbell : No, I shall make some progress. 939
 Mr. Menzies Campbell  (North-East Fife) : I cannot help thinking that the independence of the hon. Member for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound) may be modulated by membership of the Foreign Affairs Committee or participation in the annual trip to the United Nations; this institution has many remarkable ways of ensuring loyalty to the Front Bench. Indeed, there will be a demonstration later this evening from the official Opposition of how loyalty to the Front Bench can be assured. 938
 Mr. Campbell : It is difficult to blame a Government who had been in office for perhaps six weeks when the Amsterdam treaty was negotiated for problems that were not capable of being dealt with by the Government that had responsibility for them for an entire 18 years.
 Mr. Connarty : Will the Minister confirm that he is making all haste to allow the Commonwealth Development Corporation to access private financial sums to invest in ethical projects such as those that we have discussed? Can he give the House some idea of the time scale for the changes that he intends to bring about?
 Q3. [14139]  Mr. Fallon : Instead of waiting for details of the Ecclestone donation to be forced out of him four weeks later, why did the Prime Minister not refer that donation to the public standards watchdog immediately after the meeting on 16 October?
 Mr. Michael Howard  (Folkestone and Hythe) : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Howard : Does the Foreign Secretary recognise that that deal was done before the election, at the Foreign Affairs Council in March?
 Mr. Howard : It would be surprising, if one expected any clear thinking or consistency from the Labour party, but we already know, on the basis of the Government's record of the past six months, that it is idle to expect any clarity of thought or consistency from them. I therefore confess that I am somewhat less surprised than my right hon. Friend.
 Mr. Howard : What I said in the quotation that the Foreign Secretary used in his speech was that the agenda for the Amsterdam summit posed a serious threat. Some aspects of that threat did not come to pass—no thanks to the British Government. As the hon. Gentleman knows, there were on the agenda even more extensive proposals for qualified majority voting than were implemented at Amsterdam. What was implemented at Amsterdam is bad
 927
 Mr. Howard : I thought that I had made it clear that I am not in favour of extending qualified majority voting in the treaty, or of extending the co-decision procedure. Accountability comes via national Parliaments, which hold their Governments to account for the way in which they cast their votes in the Council of Ministers. That is proper democratic accountability.
 Mr. Howard : We have the answer: it is not legally binding. The Foreign Secretary was free to confess to the Select Committee last week, and I do not know why he does not confess it to the House now, that, as he said, a misunderstanding took place; a mistake was made. The Spanish Prime Minister's amendment should have been blocked, but was not, as a result of the Foreign Secretary's negligence. Financial Times "After a decade of battling against pressure to open up the frontiers as part of the EU's single market, the UK now seems certain to be offered an 'opt-out' from a new treaty agreement which is expected to set 2001 as the target for banishing customs and police checks at national ports. Mr Michel Patijn, the minister for European affairs in the Netherlands, said it was now an accepted political fact that the UK's borders would not be given up in the interests of EU integration". "we certainly have not ruled out holding up IGC business in order to get the right changes to fishing policy in the British interest. … where Britain's interests are at stake we are perfectly prepared to be isolated. Of course we are." 923
 Mr. Howard : I do not know whether the hon. Gentleman consulted the Labour Members of the European Parliament before expressing any view on these issues. Of course, doing so would not have been very profitable, because, as my hon. Friends have pointed out, Labour Members of the European Parliament have been gagged and are not allowed to say anything on these and other matters.
 Mr. Howard : I thought that I heard the hon. Gentleman say that the European Court of Justice was a safeguard in relation to this clause, but it has absolutely no involvement at all. The decision is taken entirely by other member states.
 Mr. Howard : Of course the treaty poses a threat to the national interest. If the social chapter is used to impose burdens on British business which will damage our competitiveness and destroy jobs, of course that is a threat to British interests. That must be clear to all.
 Mr. Howard : If one takes the view that the only way forward for the European Union is to impose some rigid
 924
 Mr. Howard : Because, as the right hon. Gentleman ought to know, we have used that veto on the research budget to good effect in the past. That is the way forward—to reach a consensus, even though that might take some time. He knows perfectly well that when I was talking earlier about his so-called opt-in, it was the Prime Minister's wrong, false and misleading claim that I was disputing, and it is about time we had an apology for that.
 Mr. Howard : I am dealing with the Prime Minister's claim. Is the Foreign Secretary suggesting that the declaration to which he referred, and by which he now apparently sets so much store, has any legal effect? The amendment that the Spanish Prime Minister secured is part of the treaty; it has binding legal effect. I suggest that the Foreign Secretary is cautious before he claims that the declaration has any legal effect to compare with that of an amendment to the treaty, which is what he failed to prevent.
 Mr. Howard : The Foreign Secretary did not answer the question, which is whether it is legally binding and
 922
 Mr. Michael Howard  (Folkestone and Hythe) : Today, the House has the opportunity to assess the action taken by the Government at Amsterdam on behalf of the British people and to judge whether the Government's rhetoric after the summit matched the action taken at it. Above all, we have the opportunity to vote on the Amsterdam treaty.
 920 "it can jettison the dead ballast of the efforts at integration which offend national interest". "This was one of the areas", "where I have to say that our satisfaction with the note-keeping of the Presidency was not as much as we would have wished it would be". 921 "We have no obligation to be in that at all, but what we have secured, which is important and a better way of going about things, is what I call an opt-in. We have the power within the treaty to go into any of these areas if we want to. If we do not want to, we need not, but if we do, no other country can block us going in."—[ Official Report,
 Mr. Howard : No, I have given way to the hon. Gentleman once. 928
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Order. I think that "firstly" will do.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. The hon. Gentleman cannot address the House again.
 Sir Michael Spicer rose
 Sir Michael Spicer : The Minister just said the system of traffic control worked well. By what criteria does she judge whether a traffic system works well? Clearly, if all the traffic has come to a stop in part of a big city, and part of that is caused by the traffic light system, it is not working well.
 Sir Michael Spicer  (West Worcestershire) : Turning right on red with caution is a practice that has been successfully adopted in the United States for about 15 years; so successfully that its application has spread from state to state, and, I believe, now applies in every state in the Union. That is in a country that has the best traffic accident record in the world.
 Sir Michael Spicer : That is an interesting thought. 872
 Mr. Wills : Yes, I agree. That is one of the reasons why I am so worried about the apparent reliance on the figure.
 Mr. Michael Wills  (North Swindon) : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to speak in a debate on a matter that is of such great concern to my constituents in North Swindon. I know that our concerns are shared by my hon. Friend the Member for South Swindon (Ms Drown). I too should like to add my congratulations to my hon. Friend the Member for Stroud (Mr. Drew) on initiating this important debate. As he rightly said, the housing need projection could change the face of the country and transform the way in which we live. I therefore agree with him and with other hon. Members who have spoken that that figure requires greater scrutiny. 859
 Mr. Wills : I certainly agree. That is precisely the sort of measure that we need to factor into the figures to produce different scenarios for consideration by the people. 
 "I thought it would last my time The sense that, beyond the town, There would always be fields and farms. For the first time I feel somehow That it isn't going to last That before I snuff it, the whole Boiling will be bricked in Except for the tourist parts And that will be England gone: The shadows, the meadows, the lanes, The guildhalls, the carved choirs. There'll be books; it will linger on In galleries; but all that remains For us will be concrete and tyres."
 Mr. Gapes : Will the Minister look urgently into the problem faced by many people from Montserrat who have been evacuated to this country through no fault of their own but are being subjected to the three-year rule on going into higher and further education and therefore not getting grants from local authorities? Will he discuss that with his colleagues from the Department for Education and Employment to find a way to assist British dependent territory citizens while they are in this country?
 Mr. Gapes : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, but I think I am capable of looking after myself. 949 950
 Mr. Gapes : There is a big difference between the international relationships of the United States and those of the European Union. African, Caribbean and Pacific countries have historic links with us, and through the Lomé negotiation process, we have always tried to take account of their interests. I believe that Britain and France in particular have a duty, because of international links with their former colonies in Africa and the Caribbean, to look to those wider interests. 951
 Mr. Gapes : I am sorry to disappoint the hon. Lady: I am about to tell her that she has misunderstood what I said. I said that I was pleased that the Government had succeeded in stopping precisely the development about which she has expressed concern. 954
 Mr. Mike Gapes  (Ilford, South) : It is a real pleasure to follow the right hon. Member for Skipton and Ripon (Mr. Curry); 97 per cent. of the contents of his speech would be warmly endorsed by most Labour Members. It is a pity that we did not hear such speeches from him when he was a member of the Conservative Government. Nevertheless, it was good to hear one today.
 Mr. Gapes : The treaty is modest, but it is positive, too, and only a change of Government made it possible to achieve it.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Gapes : That is an interesting question. The Europhobes do not seem to have the same enthusiasm for their cause any more. I suppose that, when people have fought a general election in which most of their colleagues were wiped out, although the previous Government said that they would stop the show—let us remember all those "show stoppers" that the former Foreign Secretary told the Foreign Affairs Select Committee about when he came before us to give evidence during the previous Parliament—and when people see that, despite Mr. Sykes's millions, their party went down to humiliating defeat, that leads to some reassessment of the situation. [Laughter.]
7.  Mr. Nicholas Winterton : If she will make a statement on assistance to Montserrat. [14113]
 Mr. Winterton : I am grateful to the Minister for that information. Does he agree with the Chief Minister of Montserrat that it is wrong to use the same budget for assistance to British dependent territories as is used for aid to India, Pakistan and Uganda? Does not aid currently go from London offices to Barbados offices and thence to Montserrat? Could we not cut out one of those stages?
 The Minister for London and Construction (Mr. Nick Raynsford) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Maidenhead (Mrs. May) on her extremely fluent presentation of issues relating to several sites in her constituency, which have clearly raised concerns locally. She highlighted local interest in the debate, and I only hope that those who read the  Maidenhead Advertiser 884 885 886 887 888
 Mr. Evans : Of course I accept that. Because they enjoy the countryside in the area of outstanding natural beauty, people live as close as they can to it; it is on their doorstep. They do not realise that, as all this building is going on there, they are helping to scar and to encroach on AONBs and to damage the very thing that they love, so we have to be guarded about that. 853
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : I am grateful for the opportunity to participate in the debate. I listened carefully to the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Drew). He even acknowledged that Conservative Members are suspicious that Labour Members have no care for the countryside. I was grateful for his contribution, and I shall listen carefully to ensure that the Minister agrees with him, and with the vast majority of Conservative Members, that we must do much more to preserve the countryside that we all enjoy, irrespective of whether we live in the country or the town. 851 The Sunday Times 852
 Mr. Letwin : I think that hon. Members will understand that the Minister cannot give a guarantee whether the far offshore trials led to a dispersion of micro-organisms over land. However, can he give some assessment as to the likelihood that that occurred? Presumably he has been reassured by officials that the likelihood is very small, but it would be interesting to know the percentages.
 Mr. Letwin : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : I should like to amplify in two respects the remarks made by my hon. Friends the Members for Teignbridge (Mr. Nicholls) and for South Dorset (Mr. Bruce). I have had considerable correspondence from constituents about the problem, much of which relates specifically to West Dorset, where the recent roadshows and exhibitions were mainly held. I have also had various correspondence from the permanent secretary to the Ministry of Defence, and I want to thank him for the efforts he made to expand the scope of the roadshows, which were much appreciated in West Dorset. 831 832
 Mr. Owen Paterson  (North Shropshire) : I shall be brief. During my business career, I have travelled widely throughout Europe. I should declare an interest in that I am president of the European Tanning Confederation, I speak a couple of European languages, and I struggle by in English. 992
 Mr. Paterson : I apologise, but that was the only geographical reference that the hon. Gentleman gave.
 Mr. Paterson : I am sorry, but I am making a desperately serious point.
 Mr. Ashdown : Leaving aside the Government's extraordinary change of policy on cigarette advertising, which I hope they will reconsider, may I return to the question of political funding? The Prime Minister's statement that the Neill inquiry into political funding will have the widest remit and will be required to produce its outcome as soon as possible is welcome—we cannot lose any time in restoring public confidence in how we fund our politics. 902
 Mr. Nicholls : Times change.
 Mr. Patrick Nicholls  (Teignbridge) : During the 1960s and 1970s, germ warfare tests were carried out off the west country coast by the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency. During that period, and indeed as late as 1977, testing took place from Lyme bay to Devonport, involving a cocktail of bacteria, including E. coli 162, B. globigii and serratia marcescens, being pumped into the atmosphere. Those germs were apparently used for their usefulness in simulating a biological attack. The issue has recently come to light because of the release of previously classified documents. The Western Morning News "to assess the vulnerability of naval vessels, to determine the hazard arising from a biological attack and to evaluate rapid detection concepts." 826 "There is no such thing as a microorganism that cannot cause trouble." "If you get the right concentration at the right place, at the right time, and in the right person, something is going to happen." "none of the four agents that the army admits using over populated areas in simulated biological warfare attacks is harmless." 827
 Mr. Nicholls : I am sorry to interrupt my hon. Friend so rudely—it is hard to catch his eye when I am sitting right behind him. For the avoidance of any doubt, I wish
 835
 Mr. Nicholls : I am sure that the public will be greatly reassured by the way in which the Minister has handled this. He has given a painstaking explanation, and I am very grateful to him for it. However, I ask him to clarify one thing.
 Q1. [14137]  Mr. Luff : If he will list his official engagements for Wednesday 12 November.
 Mr. Luff : Which Minister took the decision to exempt formula one from the tobacco sponsorship ban?
 Mr. Quentin Davies : Will the hon. and learned Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Quentin Davies  (Grantham and Stamford) : I am absolutely astounded by what the right hon. Gentleman said immediately before he answered the question of my hon. Friend the Member for Gainsborough (Mr. Leigh). It seemed that he was claiming credit for having brought to an end the really quite scandalous situation in which the Council of Ministers is the only closed legislature in the world. He said that, now that the votes will be published, that will no longer be the case. He knows perfectly well that the problem will not be addressed at all by publishing votes, because votes are very rarely taken.
 Mr. Davies : What about the social chapter?
 Sir Richard Body  (Boston and Skegness) : Will the hon. and learned Gentleman give way?
 Sir Richard Body  (Boston and Skegness) : I thought I heard the hon. Member for Harlow (Mr. Rammell) say that no reasonable person could oppose the treaty. If that is so, perhaps he would agree that no reasonable person would speak of a European Community—still less of Europe—unless the institutions being established in its name were trying sincerely to embrace the whole of Europe. 961
 Sir Richard Body : I doubt whether the Governments of those countries have got round to reading the treaty, but when they do, I have no doubt—if it is not presumptuous to say so—that they will agree with what I said. We shall see.
 Mr. Caborn : That is factored in in a number of ways. I cannot go into the detail now, but it is in the household projections to the year 2016.
 Mr. Caborn : I shall deal with that, too. 869 870
 Mr. Caborn : I cannot give way again. Time is moving on. 868
 Mr. Caborn : For the last time.
 Mr. Caborn : No, I cannot give way, because if I do I shall not be able to get through my speech, and hon. Members have already asked me to answer some of the questions.
 Mr. Caborn : I can set targets, but if targets are not realistic, it is stupid for Governments to set them. I have set a target of 50 per cent. and if we can achieve that, and more, I should welcome the fact. If we could get 100 per cent. of development on brown-field sites, I would welcome that—but all the evidence from the previous Administration, as well as our present advice, suggests that it is not achievable.
 Mr. Caborn : My hon. Friend's comments have been noted by the House and will appear in  Hansard. 865
 Mr. Caborn : I hope to clear that point up later in my speech.
 Mr. Caborn : That is an excellent intervention, and we will consider those issues when we consult on the modernisation of the plan-led system.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Caborn : My comments about consultation were in a wider context. The plan-led system exists, and planning guidance will continue to be subjected to consultation among those whom it will affect. 867
 The Minister for the Regions, Regeneration and Planning (Mr. Richard Caborn) : That is not for housing.
 The Minister for the Regions, Regeneration and Planning (Mr. Richard Caborn) : I wish to thank most of the hon. Members who have contributed to the debate, because it has been very constructive. I shall set out the base line for the debate—the Conservatives' best record, in 18 years, for building on brown-field sites was 40 per cent. Miraculously, within six months of leaving office, they have improved that to 75 per cent. That is definitely gilding the lily.
 Mr. Spring : How long will the Government retain their golden share? Does the Secretary of State accept that there is a risk that the CDC could be acquired by an organisation not dedicated to the fullest implementation of the developmental process?
6.  Mr. Spring : What are her plans for the future of the Commonwealth Development Corporation. [14112]
 Mr. Key rose
 Mr. Key : I shall be brief. I am very grateful to the Minister for the way in which he has conducted the debate. He is not a scientist, and nor am I, but we are both concerned for constituents who are genuinely worried about any ill health that they may feel goes from generation to generation. Is it the Minister's understanding, as it is mine, that, even though no dangerous pathogens were released, if chemical or biological agents which were real had been released, their effects would have taken place within minutes or hours, and we would not be talking about something happening 30 years later?
 Mr. Key : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for that reassurance, which I know will be noted by the scientific community at the Porton Down establishments and beyond. "The majority of these studies involved no release of biological material whatsoever and were conducted using organisms in different environmental conditions." "The work in public areas would have been subject to clearance by Ministry of Defence committees, external to the research establishments concerned, before approval was given to go ahead." "I must stress that the simulant substances that were released were harmless organisms commonly found in soil, grassland and hay throughout the United Kingdom and were not judged to present a risk to the general population."
 Mr. Key : I am delighted to acknowledge that my hon. Friend has stolen my final lines. Of course he is right—times have changed.
 Mr. Robert Key  (Salisbury) : If the constituents of my hon. Friend the Member for Teignbridge (Mr. Nicholls)—indeed, if any people—have had their health damaged as a result of Ministry of Defence trials, there is absolutely no doubt that every effort should be made to find out what happened. The Ministry of Defence and its agencies have a clear duty to do all they can to allay the fears of those concerned, and to assist the health authorities wherever possible. I have no doubt that they will be keen to do that—it is in their interests, and it is in everyone's interest. 834
 Mr. Robert Key  (Salisbury) : The hon. Gentleman has 15 minutes.
 Mr. Syms : I thank my hon. Friend for those comments. I note that my hon. Friends with Dorset constituencies are sitting all around me. South-east Dorset as an economic unit needs decent infrastructure, and my hon. Friends' support today is much appreciated. I note that I also have the support of one or two hon. Friends who do not come from Dorset, but the New Forest is not terribly far away. 1011
 Mr. Robert Syms  (Poole) : It is a great pleasure for me to have my first Adjournment debate on Poole harbour bridge. The subject will not excite the same passion as the Amsterdam treaty, except of course in Poole and Dorset, where the bridge is an important issue and there is great strength of feeling about the project, which forms part of the national roads programme. 1009 1010
 Mr. Syms : I agree with my hon. Friend. The problem with Dorset is where to start improving the infrastructure. I am starting at Poole bridge because it is of most concern to my constituents. All my hon. Friends will have issues that they need to raise. East Dorset district council contacted my hon. Friend today on that issue, because it has great concerns about the A350. 1012
 Mr. Robert Walter  (North Dorset) : If my hon. Friend will allow me, I wish to speak specifically about the A350, which, when it leaves Poole and heads north, linking up with Bristol, the midlands and south Wales, becomes no more than a country lane. Does my hon. Friend agree that it is essential that the A350 and the improvement schemes for bypasses are in the Dorset county structure plan as soon as possible?
 Mr. Walter : I suggest that those who are unemployed on the continent of Europe would welcome the employment opportunities that exist in Britain as a result of the previous Government's policies. We are talking about a Europe that is able to compete in the modern world.
 Mr. Robert Walter  (North Dorset) : I am not sure that I recognise the people's Europe or new Europe about which the hon. Member for Eastwood (Mr. Murphy) was talking. I hope that I can convince him that there will be only one Conservative party voting tonight. 987
 Mr. Cook : I have heard the right hon. and learned Gentleman assert that before. We have scoured the cupboards of the Home Office and the Foreign Office, but no such deal was anywhere to be found in any of the many draft treaties that we inherited. If he had made that deal, he should have explained it to the other members of the European Union, so that it would not have been necessary for us to continue until 4 o'clock in the morning to get the package. There was certainly nothing in the text about immigration or border controls when we took it over, but there is certainly something of the night about this treaty.
 Mr. Cook : So soon? Of course.
 Mr. Cook : I congratulate the hon. Gentleman on making the shadow Foreign Secretary appear to be in touch with reality. 913
 Mr. Cook : The right hon. and learned Gentleman will make his speech in his own good time. It is certainly true that he was loud in his demands throughout the summer for a referendum. Indeed, he was demanding a referendum as late as the Conservative party conference on 8 October. He may have read with interest, as I did, in  The Daily Telegraph
 The Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs (Mr. Robin Cook) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time.
 Mr. Robin Cook : I am very interested in the right hon. and learned Gentleman's reply. Does he now think that the treaty does not pose a threat to the national interest or the future of Britain? Has he abandoned that criticism?
 Mr. Cook : We have dealt with the social chapter. I fully understand the pressures applied to the hon. Gentleman, and I will not hold it against him if he votes against the Government tonight. He knows perfectly well that, if the social chapter were the only thing holding together Opposition Members, they could have let the Bill pass, and dealt with that matter perfectly adequately in Committee had they wanted to do so.
 Mr. Cook : The hon. Gentleman in his last point is absolutely wide of the mark. We were pressing throughout the Amsterdam summit for the widest possible opening. I treat the hon. Gentleman with some respect, because he has shown courage and independence of mind on this matter, but if his complaint about this treaty is that it does
 916
 Mr. Cook : We take very seriously any worries that people might have that religious schools will be struck by any part of European legislation. However, the Bill and the treaty of Amsterdam do not do that. The treaty provides the basis for the Commission and the Council to
 915
 Mr. Cook : I am not entirely sure that that intervention naturally arose from the passage in my speech. However, I assure my hon. Friend that we discussed that matter and many others with the French at last week's very successful Anglo-French summit. The French were wholly in agreement with our position. At this time, it is most important for the United Nations, particularly the five permanent members of the Security Council, which includes Britain and France, to send a united message to Saddam Hussein that he must observe the terms of the United Nations Security Council resolutions. 912
 Mr. Cook : For the hon. Gentleman's guidance, the current directive on the works councils has been rejected by the social partners, and the Commission has invited the social partners to negotiate. Only then will the Commission bring forward a proposal. When it does, we shall take our seat and make sure that the directive is amended in ways that reflect our thinking. We have already—because we have a seat—successfully amended the directive on the burden of proof, to make it wholly consistent with the existing state of British law. [Interruption.] 914 "a skilled, trained and adaptable work force and labour markets responsive to economic change".
 Mr. Cook : We signed up to the social chapter not to be nice to the rest of Europe, but because we believe that it is in the interests of the people of Britain. Of course, the hon. Gentleman is right about the reform of institutions on one level. Changes will be necessary before enlargement. Some of them will be tough changes. Applicant countries will need to make changes to their economies, and there will have to be changes in the European Union.
 Mr. Cook : We could not get agreement on applying the British standard in other countries. However, the treaty says that every country has to apply to European spending the same standards and tests that it applies to its
 918
 Mr. Cook : And voted for it.
 Mr. Cook : I cannot resist giving way to the hon. Gentleman, but if he will let me, I shall proceed a little further, and then give way. "It has already created a more united party." 917
 Mr. Robin Cook : As I understood the right hon. and learned Gentleman's complaint, it was that we agreed to too much qualified majority voting. He now seems to be complaining because there is provision for a veto in the Bill. If he reads the evidence that I gave to the Select Committee, he will see that we secured a declaration of the whole Council, which clearly sets out that admission to the Schengen acquis will be on the basis of an opinion of the Commission, and that any member, including Spain or any other country, is obliged to use its best efforts for us to join.
 Mr. Cook : No; I must press on. I have been generous in giving way, and I will give way again shortly.
 Mr. Cook : I have given way for the last time.
 Mr. Cook : I am sorry, but I will not give way. I have been generous so far, and I must at some stage allow the right hon. and learned Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard) to make his speech. 919
 Mr. Cook : The right hon. and learned Gentleman must understand that any accession to Schengen will be a political judgment by the Council. The declaration is binding on all the members that made it, including Spain, which did not object to it.
 Mr. Cook : The declaration is binding on all members. It is a declaration of the whole Council, to which the whole Council, including Spain, committed itself.
 Mr. Robin Cook : A moment ago, the right hon. and learned Gentleman was complaining about a veto for Spain; he is now objecting to the extension of qualified majority voting to the research budget. Has he not noticed that Spain is currently blocking and vetoing the research budget, unless it gets a guarantee for its structural funds? If he is so concerned about Spanish vetoes, why does not support us and take that veto away from Spain?
 Mr. Roger Casale  (Wimbledon) : How does the right hon. and learned Gentleman think proper accountability and scrutiny can take place without extending co-decision making to the European Parliament in areas where qualified majority voting applies in the Council of Ministers? Is he suggesting that qualified majority voting, which was greatly extended by the Government of which he was a member, should be abolished?
 Mr. Roger Casale  (Wimbledon) : On Monday, I had the pleasure of addressing the House in my maiden speech as a Londoner, and today I make no apologies for speaking as both a British patriot and a European. I listened carefully to the speech by the hon. Member for Tiverton and Honiton (Mrs. Browning), who referred in one breath to "Europe" and, in the next, to "over there". I do not wish to give geography lessons in the House, but I must point out that, although Europe is over there, it is over here also. We are part of Europe, and I am happy to identify myself with Europe and with the European continent. The Daily Telegraph today "I therefore consider that the social chapter no longer poses the serious threat"— "that it once did."
 Mr. Casale : Does the hon. Gentleman know of a single country in eastern Europe that is opposed to the Amsterdam treaty?
 Mr. Casale : I share the hon. Gentleman's desire to see debate being conducted politely, and I assure him that "claptrap" is not a term that I would use. Numerous studies have highlighted the benefits of social dialogue. They have identified it as a means of providing the important rights which I have described—including security for working people—and as a route to higher productivity through good relations in the workplace. 964
 Mr. Casale : It is also not uncommon for many people to complain about the people living over there, and then in the summertime to jump on a ferry at Plymouth and go off to France or other places in Europe to enjoy their holidays.
 Mr. Pound : What threatens the nation has been addressed by the Amsterdam treaty specifically and not hypothetically. I cannot comment on what may happen further down the line. Today we are under threat, and in many ways Amsterdam addresses and responds to that threat. What happens in future will be discussed then. The Government have returned from Amsterdam with the best possible deal for Britain in Europe and the best deal for Britain and Europe.
 Mr. Stephen Pound  (Ealing, North) : I am new to the ways of the House, so I am not sure whether it is appropriate or acceptable for me to say that I found the speech of the right hon. Member for Bromley and Chislehurst (Mr. Forth) extremely helpful and illuminating and I was pleased to have heard it. I do not intend to be disrespectful, but it contrasted with the speech of the right hon. and learned Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard), who seemed to concentrate his fire entirely on my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary, on whom he made an unjustified personal attack, rather than address the issues. 936 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Dalyell : Forgive me, but I am just a little puzzled about all this. Am I wrong in thinking that the
 925
 Mr. Dalyell : Will the right hon. and learned Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : Having said that, does my right hon. Friend think that it is at least wise to talk to the French before there is any question of endorsing military action against Iraq?
 Sir Teddy Taylor : Could the clause, which provides, of course, for legislation to be made –1 tried to ask the Foreign Secretary this question—be used in the European Court of Justice for actions by groups?
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I am so sorry, but I asked a different question. Could it be used by the Court?
 Sir Teddy Taylor rose
 Sir Teddy Taylor  (Rochford and Southend, East) : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Sir Teddy Taylor  (Rochford and Southend, East) : As with all the past debates on treaties such as this, it is interesting to note—or would be, if we were allowed to look—that the Public Gallery is largely empty and the Press Gallery totally empty. 968 969
 Sir Teddy Taylor : The hon. Gentleman should not laugh. I am sure that many poor people in his constituency need help from the Government, whether Tory or Labour. What do they think about the fact that, because of the mad Euro-policies that have been adopted this year, £1,200 million has been spent on growing high-class tobacco in Greece, which has then been dumped on the third world or destroyed. That is an awful lot of money. With £1,200 million I could do an awful lot for the hon. Gentleman's constituents and others. The arrogant way in which he deals with these matters, smiling and laughing at stories of spending, is shameful democracy. I would say the same to any Conservative Member. It is not funny. We should all be ashamed of the fact that hundreds of millions of pounds are wasted on the destruction of food simply to maintain high prices. 970 "would not expect litigation to arise", 971
 Mr. Tim Collins  (Westmorland and Lonsdale) : We have had an excellent debate. I commend the hon. Member for Great Grimsby (Mr. Mitchell) on an excellent speech. I endorse much of his analysis. 978 979
 Mr. Collins : I entirely agree with my hon. Friend. The Government should not pretend that their signature on the social chapter has the support of British businesses. It does not. To say otherwise would be to mislead the House—no doubt inadvertently. 981 982
 Mr. Collins : The hon. Gentleman is nodding, so perhaps he will accept that point. 980
 Mr. Collins : The hon. Gentleman was a Member of the previous Parliament and I was not, but he will know that, in the vote on the paving motion—I repeat that that paving motion, which was necessary to ensure that the process of ratification of the Maastricht treaty could continue, took place five years ago almost to the day—the entire Labour party, including its most Europhile members and those who have lectured us today continually about how, if we oppose the Amsterdam treaty, we must be against membership of the EU, voted against the motion. They knew that, if they had prevailed in that vote, ratification of the Maastricht treaty could not have proceeded.
 Mr. Collins : Will the hon. and learned Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Tim Collins  (Westmorland and Lonsdale) : In that case, will the Foreign Secretary explain why the latest edition of the CBI's  Business Update "The government has stated that it shares our reservations" "but it can be overruled since this is one aspect of Social Chapter legislation which can be covered by QMV"?
 Mr. Collins : As the hon. Member for Eastwood is on the subject of two parties and talking about who agrees with whom, does he agree with the hon. Member for Great Grimsby (Mr. Mitchell), who is so clearly against a single currency? For that matter, earlier in the debate when the hon. Member for Eastwood was not here, the hon. Member for Thurrock (Mr. Mackinlay) made it clear that he thought that the Government had made a complete pig's ear of the negotiations on border controls for Gibraltar.
 Mr. Collins rose
 Mr. Collins : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Brake : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for that intervention. I was saying only that there is some debate about the accuracy of the figure of 4.4 million. I am not suggesting that only 500,000 new houses are required; simply that there is a difference of view among experts about the figure. For that reason, the Government should consider a phased release of land rather than do everything in one go.
 Mr. Brake : In my constituency, BP has very successfully decontaminated land by removing topsoil and cleaning the environment. Decontamination has already happened. I do not think that there are any problems with decontaminating some land. 858
 Mr. Tom Brake  (Carshalton and Wallington) : I thank the hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Drew) for initiating today's debate on an issue that affects rural constituencies and suburban ones such as mine.
 Mr. Brake : The Government should re-examine the projections, otherwise builders will embark unnecessarily on a massive building programme. 857
 Mr. Tom Brake  (Carshalton and Wallington) : If the Minister's Department is to consider the possibility of cars turning left at traffic lights, could it also consider the possibility of cyclists doing the same?
3.  Mr. Baldry : What progress has been made in implementing the housing programme for Montserrat. [14109]
 Mr. Baldry : No one underestimates the difficulties on Montserrat and the challenges that the Government face
 891
 The Prime Minister : Conservative Members may laugh, but getting more money into the health service is precisely what this country wants—and we are delivering it. One of the reasons the people turned the Tories out at the election is the damage they did to the national health service. At long last the people again have a Government who believe in the national health service.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is exactly right. That is precisely why we will publish a paper on the subject shortly. I know that it will provide great assistance to his constituents and to others throughout the country.
 The Prime Minister : I shall reply directly: it is for the exact reason that I gave earlier. No decisions were made on 16 October. At that point in time, a number of different options were under discussion. For example, one of those options was that the national principle of subsidiarity should apply, so there would be a broad directive and then national legislation. Another option was that there should be a derogation for a long period, with a review break for all sport. It was only at the beginning of last week that the specific exemption for formula one was decided upon. The moment that happened, we took action.
 The Prime Minister : That is precisely why we sought the advice of Sir Patrick Neill. He gave that advice. We followed it to the letter. When Sir Patrick Neill reports, I hope that the hon. Gentleman will join me in making sure that we can get the proper restrictions on party donations for all political parties, including, for the first time, the Conservative party.
 The Prime Minister : I agree entirely with the sentiments that my hon. Friend has just expressed. We did ask for the Nolan committee, as it then was, to be able to look at party funding. I raised the matter several times when I was Leader of the Opposition; I was refused every time. The Conservatives have still not disclosed the names of the people who funded the last election campaign for them. When will they disclose that information, as they promised some months ago?
 The Prime Minister : What we have done was set out clearly in reply to an earlier question. There was never
 905
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. Having gone around several hospitals, I know that although people still suffer as a result of many of the things done by the previous Government, they at last believe that they have a Government who believe in the national health service. We have the extra £300 million going in this year and an extra £1.2 billion next year, and we are doing our very best to ensure that health service funding is put on a stable footing for the long term. That will be enormously welcome to everyone who works in the health service.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend will be delighted to know that her local health authority in Worcestershire is receiving an extra £1.5 million, which will go directly into improving patient care this winter. That is part of £300 million more than the Conservative Government were willing to give the national health service.
 The Prime Minister : I do not know whether this will do more damage to me or to my hon. Friend, but I must admit that I agree with the broad outline of what he says. We have fought general elections— [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : The money was spent as part of the general election campaign, as the hon. Gentleman would expect. The Labour party has published the names of donors this year and will publish them again next year. Neither of the other two main parties does that.
 The Prime Minister : I agree with the hon. Gentleman. My hon. Friend the Minister for Public Health will meet the Prince of Wales next week to discuss the recommendations of the integrated health care document. We are, of course, considering the issue carefully. In addition, Department of Health officials will arrange meetings with its main authors. As the hon. Gentleman is aware, doctors and clinicians in the national health service are free to arrange for their patients to receive complementary medicine if there is a clinical need for it. It is a growing area, which is now supported by as many within the national health service as outside it.
 The Prime Minister : I have no immediate plans to visit the hon. Gentleman's constituency, but I intend to visit all regions of the country.
 The Prime Minister : I shall set out our position for the hon. Gentleman with enthusiasm and relish.
 899 "The UK Government shares the broad objectives of the draft Directive. But there are unresolved legal questions about its scope, as well as practical issues, such as the impact on sports if it is agreed that the Directive should extend to sports sponsorship by tobacco companies."
 The Prime Minister (Mr. Tony Blair) : This morning I had meetings with ministerial colleagues and others. I shall have further meetings with them later today.
 The Prime Minister : Conservative Members may laugh, but they refused to have such an investigation when they were in power. We announced at the time of Sir Patrick Neill's appointment as successor to Lord Nolan that his remit would be extended to cover all aspects of party funding. 1 can confirm that we are asking Sir Patrick to consider the whole area of party funding: whether donors should be disclosed; whether the size of donations should be disclosed; whether there should be a limit on individual donations; whether there should be a limit on overall spending; and whether there should be different arrangements altogether, such as increased state funding.
 900
 The Prime Minister : First, let me deal with the right hon. Gentleman's statement that the decision is extraordinary. I have set out how virtually every other country has exemptions for formula one if it has a grand prix, so it is not a very extraordinary decision. I would also draw his attention to the jobs that are at risk if we lose formula one from this country—the 8,000 people directly employed in formula one. The chairman of the Motorsport Industry Association said earlier today that, if formula one leaves the country, there will be problems for the whole of the British motor racing industry. So, whether people agree or disagree with the decision, there is at least a perfectly sensible basis for it, given what happens in other countries.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. The Conservative party has never disclosed any of the donations that it has received, and it has not even paid back Asil Nadir's £360,000.
 The Prime Minister : Because the papers have been referred to Sir Patrick Neill—[HON. MEMBERS: "When?"] At the end of last week. [HON. MEMBERS: "When?"] They ask the question, but do not want the answer. The papers were referred to Sir Patrick Neill, who then reported back
 903
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is absolutely right to draw attention to the dire financial situation that further education colleges were left in by the previous Government's policies. I am delighted, therefore, that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Education and Employment today announced a major new boost for further education. An extra £83 million in new funding will be made available next year, and colleges will also be able to bid for more than £100 million new deal money for education and training. That is new money, which would never have been put in by the previous Government.
 The Prime Minister : I think that people remember what happened: a Tory party that undermined the national health service; a Tory party that wrecked Britain's schools; a Labour party putting more money into health and more money into schools; the welfare-to-work programme; a Tory party that said that it would never put VAT on fuel and then put it on; a Tory party that cannot even make up its mind whether it disagrees with the decision that we have taken or thinks that we have taken it for the wrong reasons.
 The Prime Minister : The right hon. Gentleman blocked the directive on tobacco advertising. The Government of which the right hon. Gentleman was a member blocked the directive.
 The Prime Minister : Of course I am, but they have not sought such a meeting before. If they seek such a meeting now, of course they can have it.
 The Prime Minister : I do not think that the right hon. Gentleman understands. In the directive there is already a temporary derogation for sport. The question is whether it is long enough and right for formula one, which is in a special position. [Laughter.] Let me explain. There are some 15 grand prix countries, of which some, including the United Kingdom, have no legal tobacco sponsorship restrictions or very limited ones. All the eight others that have restrictions on sponsorship have either special exemptions for formula one alone or special arrangements for formula one.
 Mr. McWalter : Will my hon. Friend note that the previous junior Minister at the Department of the Environment, who lost Hemel Hempstead—the area that I now represent—at the election, is now employed by a construction company? Will he also note that intensive research to try to identify brown-field sites in Hertfordshire has proved unavailing?
 Mr. Hague : It is no good the Prime Minister talking about the European directive, when the European Commission has said of his announcement:
 "it's a disaster, a complete U turn. This could spell the end of the directive, obliging the Commission to withdraw the proposal." 901 "It is particularly disappointing that a Labour Government of all governments should strangle the life out of working-class sports."
 Mr. Hague : They are seeking such a meeting now, and I am happy to hear that the Prime Minister will see them. When he does, will he consider the letter sent to the Government last week by the World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association, which says that:
 "all the arguments made by Formula One for exemption can also be made by" "It is grossly unfair that the strength of a powerful lobby should" "over the reasoned argument of less well funded sports. Surely this is not the way of New Labour."
 Mr. Hague : Is not the Prime Minister making up his policy as he goes along? Is it not the case that the Government are in turmoil and chaos over this? Is it not the case that this is another broken promise to go along with pensions, tax, tuition fees and cold weather payments? I am not accusing the Labour party of being paid to break its promises; it breaks them for free all the time. Is this not what happens when a party seeks office without a principle, value, or belief to its name?
 Mr. Hague : Is the Prime Minister aware that the leading governing bodies of sport met this morning and decided to ask for a personal meeting with him about tobacco advertising? Is he happy to have such a meeting on the same basis as his meeting with formula one?
 Mrs. Browning : I am not so convinced as the hon. Gentleman obviously is, simply because other aspects of that element of the policy give me cause for concern—not least the incompatibility of those nation states he mentioned, which for a long time have refused to join NATO even though they have been invited to do so. They have sought instead to protect their neutrality. We must ensure that there is no equalisation between EU nations and long-established members of NATO. Some people wish to bring them together, or perhaps even work towards a position in which Europe eventually takes control of its own foreign and defence policy. That gives me cause for concern. "When abstaining in a vote, any member of the Council may qualify its abstention by making a formal declaration under the present subparagraph. In that case, it shall not be obliged to apply the decision, but shall accept that the decision commits the Union. In the spirit of mutual solidarity, the Member State concerned shall refrain from any action likely to conflict with or impede Union action based on that decision".
 Mrs. Browning : Peace in our time, as my right hon. Friend says. That was the outcome of the Government's negotiations on fishing.
 953 "The ambition of some of the countries at Amsterdam was to absorb the WEU in order to bring European security and defence identity within the EU."
 Mrs. Angela Browning  (Tiverton and Honiton) : To echo my right hon. Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst (Mr. Forth), I am pleased to contribute to the debate as another free spirit in the Conservative party, and to put on record my views and concerns about the treaty. "Our vision of Europe is of an alliance of independent nations". 952 "We … promised to bring a fresh and constructive approach to Europe and to the negotiations."— [0fficial Report "We will seek a thorough overhaul of the Common Fisheries Policy to conserve our fish stocks". "We certainly have not ruled out holding up 1GC business in order to get the right changes on fishing policy in the British interest".
 Mrs. Browning : Is my hon. Friend aware that the CBI has described the social chapter as an empty revolver, saying that once the Government had signed up to it, anything could be put in? It would be simply an empty chamber from which they could fire as much as they liked.
 Mrs. Browning : I represent a Devon seat. It is not uncommon for those of us who live close to the English channel to refer to the other side as "over there".
 Mrs. Browning : Yes, I am going to disappoint my right hon. Friend, and disagree with him on one small point. 955 "Our vision of Europe is of an alliance of independent nations." [Interruption.] 956
 Mrs. Angela Browning  (Tiverton and Honiton) : Does the hon. and learned Gentleman concede that the previous Government tried to do something about quota hopping but that our hands were tied by court judgments such as that in the Factortame case? It was not a matter of our lacking will. The will was certainly there for the intergovernmental conference—when the Foreign Secretary singularly failed to win any agreement.
 Mrs. Browning : Had the hon. Gentleman been in the Chamber earlier, he would have heard my hon. Friend the Member for Esher and Walton (Mr. Taylor) say that he vote with the Opposition tonight.
 Mrs. Anne McGuire  (Stirling) : Will the hon. Gentleman explain how a level playing field is uncompetitive? If he is into statistical analysis, will he advise us how many people's working lives will be improved by the social chapter?
 Mrs. Organ : I understand the principle of using the projection model, but I am concerned about the lack of academic investigation of the social drivers. Where does what is happening in society come into the numbers and the model?
 Mrs. Diana Organ  (Forest of Dean) : I agree that the figures are based on historic data that are merely projected forward. No clear methodology or model is employed in calculating the figures. As the Guinness advert says, 33 per cent. of all statistics are made up on the spot. One gets the feeling that the mechanical model of projecting from historic trends is not the way to discover our housing needs. The figures must be right, otherwise we will build on our green acres and all will be lost.
 Helen Jackson  (Sheffield, Hillsborough) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. In all my time in this place, I have never heard such rudeness when a new Member from any party has arrived at the House to take his or her seat and to do a job on behalf of his or her constituents. It is appalling to hear such barracking of a new Member of Parliament who has just taken his seat. I would be grateful if you would comment on that.
4.  Helen Jackson : What contacts her Department has with organisations advocating fair trade and ethical investment; and what consideration she is giving to further development in these areas. [14110]
 Helen Jackson : I thank my right hon. Friend for that answer and congratulate her on what last week's White Paper had to say about fair trade. May I suggest, however, that the really difficult part will be in achieving any world consensus or action on practical ways in which fair trade and ethical investment can operate? Nevertheless, I congratulate my right hon. Friend and you, Madam Speaker, on launching a practical example in the House today showing that it is possible to drink fair trade coffee. Not only does such coffee offer production workers good wages and conditions—it tastes very good, too.
 Laura Moffatt : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the staff of Crawley hospital will be much happier this winter when they discover that they now have a £450,000 share of the £300 million for crisis admissions? Does not such news make people working in the caring professions believe that working for the national health service is more worth while?
 Mrs. Louise Ellman  (Liverpool, Riverside) : Does my right hon. Friend have any confirmation that the
 911
 Mrs. Fyfe : Does my right hon. Friend agree that it is often difficult to reconcile free trade with fair trade, and that we must enhance fair trade? Following the launch of the White Paper last week, will she therefore undertake to let the House know from time to time how Members' efforts in their constituencies to enhance fair trade are getting on, and what expansion there is in that regard?
 Mrs. Theresa May  (Maidenhead) : I am grateful for the opportunity of this Adjournment debate to raise a number of planning issues that are of particular concern to my constituents in Maidenhead, but which will have an echo across the country, because they are general issues with which many hon. Members will have experienced problems in their constituencies. I hope that, as I am raising general issues, the Minister will respond positively. 882 883 Maidenhead Advertiser.
 Ann Clwyd : What mechanisms will the Department use to target investment from British companies on the poorest countries, and how will those targets benefit the poorest people in those countries?
5.  Ann Clwyd : What representations her Department has received in response to the White Paper on International Development in respect of its emphasis on poverty. [14111]
 Clare Short : The hon. Gentleman raises a very important issue—which includes the issue of tobacco production. However, I prefer to deal with the matter straight on, rather than to play silly political games. [Interruption.]
 Clare Short : As has just been said, my plans are to propose to Parliament that private investors should be invited to invest money in the CDC, turning a state corporation into a partnership between the public and private sectors. The Government will retain a substantial minority holding and a golden share, which will ensure that the CDC remains a development organisation. The new arrangements will enable it to increase private sector investment into the poorest countries.
 Clare Short : I am glad that the hon. Gentleman is concerned about that. We intend that the golden share will be held in perpetuity.
 895
 Clare Short : We are working with the International Labour Organisation and developing countries to support programmes immediately to ban hazardous and exploitative child labour and to put in place plans to phase out excessive child labour and get the children into school. At the international conference on child labour in Oslo last month, I announced support for a new project in Pakistan and my willingness to work with other countries to reach our goal.
 Clare Short : The hon. Gentleman is right. The evidence in Bangladesh shows that well intentioned moves by the United States of America to ban the import of any garments produced by child labour led to many children going on to the streets as beggars and child prostitutes. That is why we need an overview of the problem to deal with the most exploitative mistreatment of children and to work with Governments to phase out child labour and get children into school, instead of having one-off boycotts.
 Clare Short : I agree with my hon. Friend. It is useful to examine our history on the matter and then we learn the right lessons. We used to have high levels of child labour and low levels of child education, but improvements in living conditions, as well as the spread of education, brought child labour to an end. We must have similar programmes in other countries to ban immediately the most exploitative and hazardous labour, and to increase the number of children in education and the opportunities of their parents to gain employment. That process of change is connected with plans for poverty eradication.
 The Secretary of State for International Development (Clare Short) : My Department keeps abreast of most research in this sector and is particularly attentive to work by international development organisations including the World bank, the International Monetary Fund and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. We also maintain a dialogue with non-governmental organisations and academic institutions which are engaged in the sector.
 Clare Short : I agree with my hon. Friend that we must ensure that the growth of world trade does not drive down environmental and labour standards and that it produces an improvement of life for humanity and not competition through reduced standards. I also agree with my hon. Friend about fair trade and the ethical movements that are growing and strengthening in Britain. British consumers want to know that the produce they buy and the places where their pension funds are invested are not exploiting labour or damaging the environment. Such movements have great potential impact to reach out across the world and increasingly encourage business to source ethically and improve standards worldwide.
 Clare Short : Globalisation is a fact of life; it is not a question of whether people are for or against it. It is as big a historical change as the industrial revolution and can bring great benefits to the world, but it can also have damaging consequences. Recent reports say that it will benefit many developing countries, but that there is a danger that some countries could be completely marginalised from the world economy, and that it could also cause increased inequality and marginalisation in the developed world.
 Clare Short : The right hon. Gentleman might like to look at the dates. Fifty houses were authorised in July. They were built and handed over. There was some delay in installing the electrics because of a "sick-out", as strikes are called in Montserrat. That is regrettable in the current circumstances.
 Clare Short : I authorised the provision of £6.5 million for new houses in July 1997. Fifty new permanent houses have been completed and are being handed over to the Government of Montserrat this week. They are due to be occupied from 12 November. A further 50 are under construction and are scheduled to be ready for occupation by the end of December 1997.
 Clare Short : I am grateful to my hon. Friend, and I agree with her that it is very good that the House will now consume ethical coffee which has been produced without abusing labour or pesticides— [Interruption.]
 Clare Short : As I said, I am very keen to encourage and reinforce the fair trade and ethical investment consumer movements in every possible way. My Department has numerous and growing contacts with groups interested in fair trade and ethical investment in developing countries. I especially welcome our increasing contacts with groups within the British business community, which is increasingly interested in the issue. The potential of those movements to improve labour standards and environmental protection for large numbers of people in developing countries is considerable. We are asking British companies and non-governmental organisations to work together towards those goals.
 Clare Short : As I said to the hon. Member for Banbury (Mr. Baldry), that is a decision for the Foreign Office.
 892
 Clare Short : I am aware of those conditions, but my hon. Friend referred to a two-year delay. She will be aware that we have not been in power for all that time. I authorised a house-building programme in July, and the first 50 houses are about to be occupied. I am aware that the management of the shelters leaves a lot to be desired.
 Clare Short : The hon. Gentleman is right; we need both a ban and a speeding up of de-mining. At current rates of clearance, it will take 1,000 years to clear the land mines already out there, and more are being laid as we speak. We must speed clearance and enlarge the capacity of the countries that have so many land mines to clear them for themselves. That is the only way to get the speed up.
 Clare Short : I plan to attend the ministerial conference and convention signing ceremony on 3 December, and I shall proudly sign on behalf of Britain to join in the land mine ban. I will emphasise the Government's commitment to achieving the widest possible support for a total ban on anti-personnel land mines. We shall follow up the Ottawa convention in other negotiating bodies. We shall also pursue with vigour our programme of de-mining. The British delegation will take part in the parallel round table discussions, which will include discussion of plans to speed up and co-ordinate de-mining internationally.
 Ms Jackson : The hon. Gentleman is confusing two issues here. Traffic jams are not occasioned by poor signalling or a system of signalling. They are often caused because there are far too many cars on roads that were not built to accommodate them. That is why the Government intend to introduce an integrated transport strategy, whereby there will be alternatives to what is seen to be an over-dependence on the private car. I do not think that we would automatically reduce traffic jams by making major changes to signalling systems that meet the needs of a wide range of road users. As I say, the primary consideration must be safety.
 The Minister for Transport in London (Ms Glenda Jackson) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Braintree (Mr. Hurst) on securing this debate and thank him for his generosity in affording the hon. Member for Maldon and East Chelmsford (Mr. Whittingdale) an intervention. Clearly, there is cross-party unity on many of the issues on which my hon. Friend touched. I also thank my hon. Friend for welcoming me to the Government Front Bench. I assure him that compliments in this place are so rare that there is never a danger of anyone being accused of sycophancy. 878 879 880
 Ms Jackson : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his intervention, but I have as yet given no indication as
 873 874
 The Minister for Transport in London (Ms Glenda Jackson) : I congratulate the hon. Member for West Worcestershire (Sir M. Spicer) on raising a particularly interesting question. Making the best use of the road network will be an important part of our integrated transport policy, but best does not necessarily mean maximising capacity for cars and lorries. We must take account of the needs of all road users, as well as our environmental and safety objectives.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Ms Glenda Jackson) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Syms) on obtaining the Adjournment debate, and commend him for his generosity in permitting interventions from the hon. Members for Bournemouth, West (Mr. Butterfill), for North Dorset (Mr. Walter) and for Mid-Dorset and North Poole (Mr. Fraser). As the hon.
 1013 1014 1015 1016
 Q7. [14143]  Jacqui Smith : I welcome the Chancellor's announcement of an extra £300 million for health services this winter and my right hon. Friend's comments today. When will we know how much of that money will be available for the Worcestershire area? In the light of local concerns about health authority reviews, can my right hon. Friend reassure my constituents that extra money made available by this Government will be targeted directly on patient care and not used to prop up the inefficiencies of the previous Government's internal market?
 Ms Drown : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that there is an incentive to build on green-field sites, since the cost of them—if one can get hold of them—is often much less than that of brown-field sites? Did the previous Government ever think about doing something about that?
 Ms Julia Drown  (South Swindon) : Whether we can make better use of housing stock is a very important issue. The need for 33 per cent. of the 4.4 million homes is due to a change in behaviour, which would suggest that we could make greater use of conversion. Does my hon. Friend agree that we should be looking at the tax
 860
 Ms Tess Kingham  (Gloucester) : I support much of what my hon. Friend the Member for Stroud (Mr. Drew) has said. However, representing an urban constituency, I view the issue of the 40,000 to 50,000-plus new homes to be developed in our county from a slightly different perspective. 854 855
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Interventions must be brief and addressed to the Chair.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. It is clear that several hon. Members are trying to catch my eye. Brevity will assist.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. I am sorry to interrupt the Minister, but the House is not used to demonstrations of the kind that he has just made. It will be difficult to record it in the context of the debate, unless he will be good enough to describe what he has produced before the House.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. The hon. Member must remember that he is addressing the Chair.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I am having some difficulty hearing the Minister. Could we please conduct the rest of the debate in good order?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman must remember that he is addressing the Chair.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman must resume his seat. I must remind the hon. Member for Eastwood (Mr. Murphy) that he has been slipping into direct address. He should address all his remarks to the Chair and refer to Opposition Members in the third person.
 Hon. Members : Hear, hear.
 Several hon. Members rose
15.  Dr. Kumar : If he will make a statement on the level of financial support for universities in 1998–99. [14336]
 Dr. Kumar : I thank my hon. Friend for his reply. The Secretary of State's announcement of £165 million for higher education is a tremendous support. Will my hon. Friend seriously consider one aspect of the Dearing report which has been overlooked? Universities face a crisis in funding for research, infrastructure and equipment, for which £400 million to £500 million is required. I urge him to reconsider the funding proposals or make additional funding available.
 Dr. George Turner : Does my right hon. Friend accept that transport is an especially difficult problem when there are no buses on which to get subsidised fares; and that there is a real need to ensure that opportunities under the new deal are genuinely available in rural constituencies, such as the one I represent, and not simply theoretical possibilities?
16.  Dr. Stoate : What has been the response of employers to the new deal for young unemployed people. [14337]
 Dr. Stoate : I thank my right hon. Friend for that reply; it will be good news to young, unemployed people in my constituency of Dartford and elsewhere. Does he agree with me that the new deal allows employers to address the skills shortage, which causes so much damage to British competitiveness?
 Mr. Jim Marshall : I recognise the problem that my right hon. Friend faces in financing higher and further education, but does he not agree that if the Government's proposals on student funding lead to a dramatic fall in student numbers, that will create an even greater crisis in the sector's finances next year? How does he intend to cope with that potential crisis?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Dr. Kim Howells) : The principal responsibility lies with the training and enterprise councils themselves. The Department operates a number of controls to check against uncertain, incorrect or improper payments. My hon. Friend may be assured that we operate those controls with energy and determination.
 Dr. Howells : I assure my hon. Friend that we will do just that. National vocational qualifications are a tremendous boon to our education system. I believe in them; they have opened up possibilities for learning and entering higher education for a great many people. I have seen it wherever I have gone. Yesterday in a steel plant, I saw a rediscovered joy in learning. The men and women working there were involved in national vocational qualifications and were extremely keen to go on learning. We must ensure that there is no fraud in the system and that no nods arid winks are operated by any agency that receives money from the Government. The question of national vocational qualifications must remain completely unbesmirched by backhanders or sleaze.
 Dr. Howells : It is too early to estimate higher education enrolment levels in 1998. Applicant numbers are currently slightly down compared with last year.
 Dr. Howells : I do not know the hon. Gentleman's educational background, but let me tell him this: when I discovered the percentages of young people from different socio-economic groups who go to university and receive higher education—
 Dr. Howells : If the hon. Gentleman will wrap up for a moment, I shall answer the main question. Four out of five young people from families of senior managers and professionals go on to university, whereas fewer than one in 10 from unskilled families go to university. We are going to do something about that.
 Dr. Howells : I agree absolutely with my hon. Friend. We shall ensure that every student, regardless of background, has access to sufficient money now to get
 1024
 Dr. Howells : My hon. Friend has drawn the attention of the House to an important project which is operating in a hard-hit area. Indeed, nowhere has been hit harder than Grimethorpe. I know that my hon. Friend is doing an excellent job in representing the interests of his constituents. 1032
 Dr. Howells : It is too early to form an assessment of the coalfields learning initiative partnership, but we welcome its provision of adult education learning opportunities in former coalfield areas. Lifelong learning and the creation of a learning society are at the heart of our education and training policies.
 Dr. Howells : Many Scottish universities offer students with good A-levels the option of entering the second year of a four-year honours course, so it should be possible for students from England and Wales to get a Scottish degree after paying for the same number of years as they would have taken to graduate at a university elsewhere in the United Kingdom. Those from low-income families will get free tuition in any case.
 Dr. Howells : Thank you very much.
 Dr. Howells : I hope that the hon. Gentleman listened to the reply that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State gave on the subject earlier. There are Scottish universities that already accept students with two good A-levels into the second year of four-year honours courses. I hope that they will continue to do so and that many other universities in Scotland will follow their example.
 Dr. Howells : We have received a wide range of responses to the recommendation by the National
 1036
 Dr. Howells : We are examining the issue carefully. We are worried about the fact that some colleges and
 1034
 Dr. Howells : We have taken decisive action to deal with the serious funding problems facing universities. For 1998–99, my right hon. Friend has announced that an extra £165 million will be spent on higher education, including an extra £125 million to enable universities and colleges to maintain and improve quality and standards, and to make a start on the backlog of maintenance and equipment replacement.
 Dr. Howells : As my hon. Friend probably knows, the majority of the responses received so far to Sir Ron Dearing's proposals have been opposed to multiple franchising, or serial franchising as it is sometimes called, arguing that it should be stopped. They recognise, however, that there might be occasions when, for geographical or subject-related reasons, that would be impossible. I am sure that my colleagues will consider the matter carefully when we formulate our responses to Sir Ron's proposals.
 Dr. Howells : We have made no such decision; nor have we made any such announcement.
 Dr. Phyllis Starkey  (Milton Keynes, South-West) : As another newly elected Member who was a member of the Select Committee, I must say that that membership has been a fascinating experience and has given me a crash course at least in the theory of current parliamentary procedures. I am grateful to the more experienced members of the Committee who have been forbearing in
 1103 1104 1105
 Dr. Starkey : I accept that absolutely. Obviously, I was not in the House before 1 May. The fact that such behaviour may have gone on before is absolutely no excuse for it continuing. This is a new Parliament. The public have a new attitude to politicians; it is not one of much respect. All of us—both new and old Members—must live up to our responsibility to try to rehabilitate Parliament in the eyes of the public. I do not absolve some of my hon. Friends from some of the boorish behaviour.
 Dr. Starkey : Will the hon. Gentleman also say that it is up to the Opposition not to gloat and take it as a Government defeat when the Government accept their amendments in a constructive spirit?
 Dr. Tony Wright  (Cannock Chase) : I can reassure the House that I shall make only a few general remarks as quickly as I can. They flow nicely from the remarks that the hon. Member for Hazel Grove (Mr. Stunell) has just made. "Parliamentary reform is one of those things, as Mark Twain remarked about the weather, which everybody talks about, but nobody does anything about. Seldom has there been so much public agreement that something should be done, but seldom so much private agreement that nothing is likely to be done." 1098 "The Standing Committee was a futile marathon … the committee stage was mostly a matter of posturing … it was scrutiny by slogan and soundbite." 1099 "With one or two notable exceptions, such as the creation of "First Reading" Committees, the House could, if it so wished, do a great deal without a single amendment to Standing Orders." 1100
 Mr. Nicholas Soames  (Mid-Sussex) : Does the Leader of the House accept that the whole House should be truly shocked by the levity with which she treated the question of my hon. Friend the Member for Mid-Norfolk (Mr. Simpson) about questions on the millennium dome? Does not she think it incredible that we have not been granted a debate on the Floor of the House to allow us to test and probe the extent and nature of a project that will spend £750 million of taxpayers' money? Is not that completely improper in terms of parliamentary accountability?
 Madam Speaker : I will call the right hon. Member for South Norfolk (Mr. MacGregor) next. May I just say that many right hon. and hon. Members are interested in taking part in the debate? Unless those speaking discipline themselves, all Members will not be called. I would not dream of inhibiting the right hon. Member for South Norfolk.
 Madam Speaker : Order. We shall check up afterwards. It is not relevant to this debate.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The debate was on the second motion.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The question relates to projects in Wales and the north-west. I have warned the House before that supplementary questions must follow the substantive question. I know that Hereford is not far from Wales, but I do not think that the hon. Member for Hereford (Mr. Keetch) will be able to get his question in order. If any other hon. Member wishes to speak about Wales or the north-west particularly, I shall call him or her—I thought not.
 Miss Melanie Johnson : Does my right hon. Friend agree that, just as education would help the hon. Member for Banbury (Mr. Baldry), the new deal will provide excellent opportunities to improve the employability of young people, which is an important product of the scheme? Does he also agree that it will be a high-quality scheme and not one designed purely to massage the employment figures, like those of the previous Government?
 Mr. Alan Howarth : We shall offer help to everyone who becomes eligible for the new deal, and sufficient places will be available to meet that commitment. We are making very good progress in Wales, the north-west and elsewhere in planning and implementing the new deal. My right hon. Friend the Minister for Employment, Welfare to Work and Disability Rights launched the first of the pathfinder areas this morning.
 Mr. Howarth : My hon. Friend speaks from his deep commitment to his constituents, so many of whom have suffered as a result of the processes of industrial change. Shotton is in his constituency and Llanwern is in mine.
 1028
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. Alan Howarth) : We believe strongly in the value of voluntary work. For this reason, we have recently launched a consultation document on millennium volunteers, and we have been working closely with a wide range of voluntary groups to encourage their participation in the new deal for young unemployed people.
 Mr. Howarth : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for the way in which she put her question. There is an enormous problem with the exclusion of young people who have become disaffected and alienated from much of the mainstream of our society. We believe strongly in voluntary work as the most valuable means of strengthening the bonds of our society and creating a society in which all can contribute and all are valued. The voluntary sector option of the new deal and millennium volunteers are distinct programmes, as my hon. Friend knows. Both of them will be of considerable interest to others in the Government who, through the work of the social exclusion unit, will be monitoring and promoting the ways in which we address the problem.
 Mr. Andrew Rowe  (Faversham and Mid-Kent) : Will the Leader of the House arrange for a statement next week
 1047
 Mr. Rowe : Does the Minister agree that, as a result of the steadily falling unemployment inherited from the previous Government, the proportion of young people who require the scheme and who are very disadvantaged, because of their social background, lack of education or other skill shortages, is growing? None of those people will be attractive to employers. Will the Minister give us an assurance that the time taken to get those young people up to the threshold at which most other young people start such schemes will be extended, so that they are on a level playing field and can benefit from the scheme?
 Mr. Smith : The hon. Gentleman raises an important point. I appreciate the understanding and sensitivity that he shows towards the young unemployed in his constituency, and towards the programme. As the overall numbers fall, those in particular need constitute a greater proportion. That is why the gateway period of up to four months of assessment, counselling and help with basic
 1035
 Mr. Smith : Absolutely. This is the right time to introduce the new deal. It maximises the opportunities for young, unemployed people to obtain work, and it helps business by ensuring that young people are equipped with skills and are prepared for work, so that they can develop their training towards a recognised qualification while in employment. That will benefit my hon. Friend's constituents and thousands of others across the country.
 Mr. Andrew Smith : Employers across the country are responding positively to the new deal by pledging support, and by following up those pledges with practical action.
 Mr. Smith : The programme for the long-term unemployed will start in June. I thank my hon. Friend for her constituency work in promoting the new deal. She refers to the particularly acute needs of some of those eligible for the new deal programme in her constituency. In that regard, the gateway provision is crucial, providing personal support, assessment, mentoring and help with basic skills, and it will be brought forward as quickly as possible to help the constituents of my hon. Friend and others.
 Mr. Smith : The new deal will result in extra employment opportunities in small and medium enterprises precisely because the prospect of that subsidy and support in obtaining a trained and ready-to-work young person can make a critical difference to whether someone is taken on. The Low Pay Commission will recommend the level of the minimum wage, taking full account of employment needs. Rather than carping about the new deal, the hon. Gentleman, like so many other hon. Members, should get behind it in his constituency to end the scandal of long-term youth unemployment and help business.
 Mr. Andrew Smith : Small and medium businesses are crucial to the success of the new deal. We are working hard to secure their involvement by reflecting their views in the design and delivery of the new deal, by helping them through local partnerships and by targeting national promotion to encourage their further involvement.
 Mr. Smith : Yes and I look forward to visiting my hon. Friend's constituency to see the work that he and the local community are doing to address those transport problems. I emphasise that new initiatives are being developed through new deal partnerships with the Rural Development Commission, TECs and local councils. Those initiatives include, for example, pooled taxi use, car sharing and even the leasing of mopeds, and the Government welcome those local initiatives to address local transport needs.
 The Minister for Employment, Welfare to Work and Disability Rights (Mr. Andrew Smith) : As I expect the hon. Gentleman is aware, a recent survey by the Somerset employment service showed that some 40 per cent. of unemployed young people reported transport to be just such a problem.
 Mr. Smith : Yes, indeed. I shall visit Cornwall on 19 December precisely to examine how the pathfinder proposals are working out there. A number of transport companies already offer discounts for young unemployed people, and those will be part of the new deal. Sheffield supertram operates a reduced fare, and National Express has announced a 50 per cent. discount for those on the new deal and free travel for unemployed people going to interviews. We want to turn that into a national programme and support initiatives with the Rural Development Commission for other ways to include transport in rural areas, such as the project in which the hon. Gentleman was involved in his constituency.
 Mr. Andrew Stunell  (Hazel Grove) : The hon. Gentleman said that this is a non-partisan issue, without party divisions, but has he not argued that there will be Conservative Members on it with satisfactory credentials? When the matter was debated on Monday, aspersions were clearly cast on the nomination of the Liberal Democrats, who is an hon. Member with wide industrial and commercial experience who is entirely suited to the membership of the body. The trustees represent a variety of ages, politics and experiences who, taken together, form a sound body. Does the hon. Gentleman not agree?
 Mr. Andrew Stunell  (Hazel Grove) : I am the 10th Member of the House to speak in the debate and the first of the new intake from 1 May, and it is from that one third of Members who are new to the House that much of the pressure for modernisation has come. However, it is encouraging to those new hon. Members on the Committee that hon. Members with much more experience than us share many of our concerns. 1095
 Mr. Stunell : The hon. Gentleman makes a sound point. The hours, if not the rates of pay, are comparable. 1096 1097
 Mr. Andrew Welsh  (Angus) : Is the Leader of the House aware that the Scottish Office released the report "Government Expenditure and Revenue for Scotland" this morning and held a private press briefing? That report is not yet available from the Vote Office or the Scottish Office, in spite of repeated requests by hon. Members. Will she ensure that those matters are dealt with in the House and not at private press briefings?
 Mr. Welsh : Does the Minister accept that the failure to exempt English, Welsh and Northern Irish students from
 1029
 Mr. Reed : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the new deal scheme will work because it is a quality scheme and is widely supported by business, the voluntary sector and participating individuals, unlike the schemes that young people have suffered in the past decade? The youth opportunities programme, youth training, the youth training scheme, training for work: you name it, we have had it.
 Mr. Jones : Does my hon. Friend agree that Wales's recovery from the great loss of steel and coal jobs still has a long way to go? This excellent scheme might provide a real lifeline to valleys and towns in Wales. is my hon. Friend aware that in Deeside in my constituency far too many young people have aimless, hopeless lives and have no access to worthwhile work? Is there any way in which my hon. Friend might enlarge the scheme? He knows that we will never heal the wounds of Thatcherism until we give work and hope to our young people.
7.  Mr. Barry Jones : How many new deal welfare to-work places he plans to create in  (a) (b)
 Mr. Ben Bradshaw  (Exeter) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, South-West (Ms Jones) on being the second person in the debate, which began at 4.45 this afternoon, to take less than 10 minutes to speak. I shall not name the other person because it might be embarrassing. 1115 1116
 Mr. Bob Laxton  (Derby, North) : I am pleased to be able to participate in this debate. I say to the hon. Member for Hazel Grove (Mr. Stunell) that it has not taken fortitude for me to remain in the Chamber throughout the debate. As a new Member of Parliament, I have found it interesting and informative. This debate has given me the opportunity to make my maiden speech. 1106 1107 1108
 Mr. Gill : The hon. Gentleman misunderstands the point that I am trying to make, which is simple. The fact that the Labour Government have a majority of 179 in this Parliament does not mean that they can push through their legislation without regard to the legitimate views of other Members, who have been elected by a substantial number of votes. On 1 May, more people in the UK voted for parties other than the Labour party. The point at issue is that, if our system is to be in any way democratic, the representatives of the people have to have an opportunity to put their view and to be heard. The right hon. Member for Ashton-under-Lyne was right. 1102
 Mr. Christopher Gill  (Ludlow) : During this interesting debate, several references have been made to the record number of new Members in this Parliament. I compliment many of them on having the fortitude to sit through this debate and I am sure that the House looks forward to hearing their comments on these important issues. 1101
 Mr. Christopher Gill  (Ludlow) : The House will have noted the right hon. Lady's reluctance to grant a debate on the funding of political parties and drawn conclusions from that. May I suggest that we might discuss another funding matter—the funding of local authorities? Her colleagues in shire halls and town halls up and down the country are greatly concerned about the likelihood that the funding for local authorities will be infinitely less generous under this Government than under the previous Administration. The title for the debate could be "Rate Capping", given the commitment in the Labour party manifesto to abolish rate capping and the more recent confirmation from the Minister for Local Government and Housing that the Government intend to abolish crude and universal capping. May we have a debate on that subject?
 Mr. Christopher Gill  (Ludlow) : The right hon. Lady was describing the different ways in which Members of Parliament approach their job. Will she accept that, in the circumstances that she has described, it would be impossible to lay out a job description for Members of Parliament? Will she resist the calls that I understand are being made to produce such a document?
 Mr. Colin Pickthall  (West Lancashire) : My right hon. Friend may have noticed that at Question Time, many hon. Members expressed their concerns about higher education funding. She will also have noticed that
 1048
 Mr. Dafis : Will the Secretary of State explain in as much detail as possible the connection between the decision to require students to contribute towards their fee, and the additional resources for higher education? Does he intend to ensure that the additional resources from the fee are ring-fenced for higher education, and how permanent will that connection be?
 Mr. Dale Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : May I press my right hon. Friend on the issue raised by my hon. Friend the Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner)? May we have a debate on the Ecclestone contributions? We are told that he paid £10 million to the Tories and lent them £4 million. It is either true or not true. If it is true, surely an Opposition Member should come to the Dispatch Box, admit that it is true and tell us what the Opposition did in return for that money. What did they do for the money?
 Mr. Dale Campbell-Savours : How does the right hon. Gentleman know that a number of these people are not experts on pensions? Has he asked them?
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : Incredible.
 Mr. Dale Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : Does the right hon. Gentleman know whether the trustees can take evidence? If they can, is he suggesting that he might wish to give evidence?
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : Ah!
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : How does the right hon. Member know? He does not know what their experience is.
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : The right hon. Gentleman does not know whether my hon. Friends were trustees. That would not be in the record to which the hon. Member for Lichfield (Mr. Fabricant) referred. As for the medical practitioner, there is a requirement that a medical practitioner should be a trustee. The fund may have to deal with people like me, who may at some stage want ill-health pensions.
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : I recall hearing these arguments before. They are arguments that the previous Government used against the then Opposition Front Bench. They said that because Labour had not been in government for nearly 18 years we did not have the experience to go into government. There is a fine team of Ministers on the Treasury Bench that is competently running the affairs of the United Kingdom, and most of its members have had no previous ministerial responsibility. They have acquired their competence in a matter of months. What is the hon. Gentleman going on about? I think that he completely misunderstands what the debate is about.
 Mr. Blunkett : By 2005–06, on current accounting procedures, an additional £800 million would be available for the further and higher education sector from the introduction of our proposals. That sum would rise substantially under alternative resource accounting processes. That money will be available for lifelong learning. I have made it clear here and in the Select Committee that that is why we are introducing the scheme. We believe that it is an important investment which will open access to the tens of thousands of students who would otherwise be denied it.
 Mr. Blunkett : If there is a drop in the number of students, it will be a tragedy for those who have been discouraged from taking up their places by misleading and scurrilous propaganda: propaganda that suggests that the means-tested family contribution is to rise, when it is not; scurrilous misinformation that suggests to poorer students that they will have to find the £1,000 fee, when they will not; and scurrilous misinformation that deceives them into thinking that the grant is to disappear in one year, when in fact it is being phased out.
 Mr. Blunkett : I am grateful to my hon. Friend and I entirely agree. Conservative Members might stop laughing if they realised that in our sixth months in office, my Department has identified within our existing resources, which we inherited, more than £250 million for further and higher education. That is £250 million that the Conservatives failed to identify and did not know was available. Their handling of their responsibilities was grossly incompetent.
 Mr. Blunkett : We did not accept the Dearing proposition that the imposition of a contribution to fees should not be means tested; in other words, that all students should be expected to find the contribution towards fees. A party that cut the maintenance grant year after year, introduced the current unfair mortgage-type loan scheme, resisted our requests for an income-related scheme, stood on an election platform that did not say whether it favoured maintaining the grant or introducing fees, and has done a double somersault on its previous policies has no right to question us on this issue.
 The Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. David Blunkett) : In my statement in September, I outlined how we had identified £165 million for investment in opening up access to higher education, doubling the access funding and providing money to sustain the universities and to ensure that young people have the opportunity of taking up higher education in years to come. Yesterday, I was able to make a similar statement relating to further education.
 Mr. Blunkett : I agree with my hon. Friend. The £83 million that we have identified for direct investment, and the minimum contribution of at least £100 million from the new deal for the under-25s—which will go into further education through the full-time and part-time options for education and training—will make an enormous difference in opening up potential for more than 70,000 additional students next year. The funds will help to protect the colleges, as we did the universities, from the draconian cuts imposed by the previous Government, who paid lip service to expansion while undermining the quality and standard of education.
 Mr. Blunkett : We are of course talking about the £1,000 towards the tuition fee for the final and fourth year for those in the higher income bracket. There is no evidence yet on what the impact might be on English students, because applications have not yet closed in Scotland. One thing is certain: the more fear that is put in students' minds about what they can expect to find and when, the more likely it is that they will not apply. I am confident, as are my right hon. and hon. Friends in Scotland, that the quality of education at universities in Scotland is such that those who are privileged enough to have earnings that will oblige them to pay the full £1,000 fee will feel that it is worth the investment.
 Mr. Blunkett : I agree entirely. It is statistically proven that what my hon. Friend says is correct. We announced yesterday an expansion for further education, and the fact that adult students in further education already contribute towards their fees and feel that it is worth while to do so will be an encouragement to those who go on to higher education: they will see that the higher return on the investment made will be a tremendous financial as well as an educational and employment gain.
 Mr. Blunkett : I do not believe that 15,000 to 20,000 youngsters a month reaching the point where they have been unemployed or out of education for more than six months is a minor problem, or something which should not be tackled by a Government who believe in the economic gains that can be made from investing in those young people—which I described a moment ago—and in the critical nature of social cohesion, which means that we must heal our communities instead of dividing them.
 Mr. Blunkett : Quality, continuity and accountability within the scheme are features which will distinguish the new deal from the programmes and schemes that the Conservatives introduced during their 18 years in office. 1027
 Mr. Blunkett : If the Conservative party had handed back the money every time they gave a contract to or privatised a company that was associated with, or had been in any way involved with, a donation to the party through either an individual or an organisation, they would have handed back more than they have received over the past 20 years.
 Mr. Blunkett : I am very pleased that the hon. Gentleman believes that there is not a whiff of impropriety because if he did believe that, he should say it outside the House.
 Mr. Blunkett : We count quality as being of paramount importance. That is why in both the gateway and the main
 1025
 Mr. Blunkett : My hon. Friend is right. That is why every single option under the new deal will include education and training to a recognised qualification, including a year in a full-time education place. That is
 1026
 Mr. Blunkett : My hon. Friend is quite right. In addition to the measures spelt out a moment ago by my right hon. Friend the Minister for Employment, Welfare to Work and Disability Rights, there will be a discretionary fund, specifically for transport, to assist those who are taking up the full-time education option in further education colleges. We want the advisers to be able to help from the moment young people enter the gateway, with education and social advice to build up their confidence and skills before they enter the main programme and so ensure that they are able to sustain the training and education elements throughout the programme.
 Mr. Blunkett : I shall be happy to consult my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and her colleagues about how to provide greater access to education for all members of the community in Northern Ireland.
 Mr. Blunkett : New admissions criteria will provide for a genuine partnership to get schools to work together with their education authority, to ensure that we overcome the scandal of some parents finding that they do not have places for their children in September, because they have had to make multiple applications in a chaotic system, such as my hon. Friend must suffer in parts of Hertfordshire.
 Mr. Blunkett : I will give my hon. Friend the absolute assurance that we will do so. Parents and children deserve a system that meets their needs and in which their preference is respected, rather than the school choosing the pupil, and chaotic multiple admissions systems that result in children failing to have a place, and therefore failing to have the opportunity that others take for granted.
 Mr. Blunkett : The right hon. Gentleman and his hon. Friends know perfectly well that recognising an aptitude
 1030
 Mr. Drew : I welcome my right hon. Friend's answer. May I ask that the role of the dedicated advisers be brought to the fore, especially in rural areas where people face difficulties of access and a lack of provision and where those advisers will play an interesting and important role?
6.  Mr. Drew : What measures he has taken to ensure that options offered to young people on the new deal are of high quality. [14325]
 Mr. Heath : I am grateful to the Minister for his reply. When he evaluates the new deal pilot areas, will he pay particular attention to the pilot scheme in Cornwall? Will he look at the barriers to young people in rural areas, and the barriers that prevent small businesses in rural areas from providing opportunities? Will he ensure that the new deal is a genuine new deal for young people in Somerset villages just as much as it is for young people in cities?
5.  Mr. David Heath : What proportion of the young unemployed in rural areas cite lack of available transport as a barrier to employment opportunities. [14324]
 Mr. Trimble : Indeed. The assurance was given after considerable representations were made by myself and my colleagues and after the Northern Ireland Office first informed us that it was its intention to proceed by Order in Council. I agree, that after representations were made, there was a concession. 1 do not know how many Orders in Council are proposed for this year, but there are five on the Order Paper and up to 10 might come through during the Session.
 Mr. Trimble : That argument is not worthy of any attention. I am dealing with a matter of principle that turns on the enactment of primary legislation, and there is a proper procedure. Whatever the difficulties, there is no excuse for substandard procedure. 1092 "the main project of re-engaging the gears of the political process in a fundamental way so that ordinary voters feel genuinely connected with the people who represent them."
 Mr. David Trimble  (Upper Bann) : I agree entirely with what the hon. Gentleman says about the importance of give and take in debate through interventions, but does he agree that introducing a time limit instantly kills debate? With a time limit of 10 minutes, which we sometimes have in the House, the Member who is speaking knows that he cannot afford to take interventions, because they would occupy too much of his time and might prevent him from making an important point. If we have time limits, we shall not have interventions and we shall not have the type of debate that the hon. Gentleman rightly wants. That is a serious problem.
 Mr. David Trimble  (Upper Bann) : I apologise to the Leader of the House for the fact that I was not present at the beginning of the debate, and consequently did not hear most of her speech. I had to deal with the consequences of a factory closure in my constituency and the loss of 500 jobs. That situation obviously merited my grave attention. 1088 Hansard "The Opposition in particular and Members in general must have a full opportunity to discuss and seek to change provisions to which they attach importance." 1089 1090 "Of crucial and growing importance is the need to ensure proper scrutiny of the other forms of legislation with which the House has to deal, namely European legislation and United Kingdom secondary legislation." 1091 "We hope that their special problems will be considered sympathetically—especially the case for returning to legislating for Northern Ireland by Acts rather than by Orders."
 Mr. Willetts : Can the Secretary of State confirm a figure researched for me by the House of Commons Library, which tells me that a young person who is unemployed already has an 84 per cent. chance of moving off benefit within a year? How much better than that does he expect to do with his welfare-to-work scheme? Can he also confirm that it was one of his socialist heroes who said that socialism is about priorities? Does he really believe that putting £3.5 billion into a problem that is obviously shrinking is the right ordering of priorities when there are so many other pressures on his budget and elsewhere?
 Mr. Winnick rose
 Mr. Winnick : On Monday night, I wondered whether the right hon. Gentleman was simply being obstructive;
 1053
 Mr. David Winnick  (Walsall, North) : I could be wrong, but I believe that I am right. The right hon. Gentleman, whom we are pleased to see back in his place, said that the pensions position was 40 per cent., whereas it was reduced to 50 per cent. He said that 20 years' service provides half a pension, but he should have said 25 years' service.
 Mr. Winnick : I am not volunteering. The hon. Gentleman refers to Labour Back Benchers with many years of experience. Leaving my position aside, is it not of interest that all those Labour Members have various positions of responsibility, including—I do not wish to embarrass him—my right hon. Friend the Member for Ashton-under-Lyne (Mr. Sheldon), who is chairing an important Committee. My hon. Friend the Member for Workington (Mr. Campbell-Savours) is a member of that Committee and of another Committee which carries some responsibility.
 Mr. David Winnick  (Walsall, North) : Is there not a case for having an early debate on political party funding? Would it not be useful? Such a debate would show us whether the Conservative Opposition are in favour of disclosing in full all those who donate large sums to political parties, whether they are in favour of a ban on foreign donations and whether they take the view, as we do, that there should be a cap on the amount that can be spent in general elections—just as there is in constituency campaigning, where there is no controversy. Throughout the 18 years when many of us made proposals—through ten-minute Bills and questions—the Conservative Government were totally opposed to any reform of political funding. The Conservatives are about the last people in the world who should give us lectures.
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Will my right hon. Friend take on board the idea of having several debates about political funding because, contrary to the view that is expressed by a few Tories as of now, it would help us considerably to take the lid off all those donations to the Tory party when it was in government?
 1041
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Not everybody.
 Mr. Don Foster : In view of the answer that the Secretary of State gave to the hon. Member for Banbury (Mr. Baldry), will he confirm to the House that a contract recently given for the delivery of the new deal in Hackney was given to Reed Personnel Services, that the head of that organisation is Alec Reed, and that that gentleman is alleged to have given £100,000 to the Labour party? Although I have no reason to believe that there was any impropriety whatever in that contract, can the Secretary of State confirm his support for the Prime Minister in acknowledging the urgent need to reform party political funding to remove even the whiff of impropriety in such arrangements?
 Mr. Forth : If the hon. Gentleman will do me the courtesy of allowing me to develop my argument—these are only my opening remarks—he will learn that I do not rest my case on such a matter as knowledge of pensions, important although it may be.
 Mr. Forth : That is a fair question.
 Mr. Forth : Thank you for that clarification, Madam Speaker. The hon. Gentleman should have established his facts before getting to his feet. 1051 "The Managing Trustees appointed in accordance with Section 1 of the 1972 Act by Resolution of the House of 22 May 1992 are" 1052
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : I confess that I am disappointed that, given that this is the first opportunity that the House has had to debate this important matter—[HON. MEMBERS: "It is the second opportunity."] It is the first opportunity, because the Leader of the House withdrew the motion in a fit of pique the other night and would not let the House debate the matter.
 Mr. Forth : That is a reasonable point of view, which I respect. It was not the view that we took in the previous Parliament or, as those with longer memories may agree, in previous Parliaments that I can recall. That view has not been taken until now. If it were suddenly the view of the House, that would be another matter.
 Mr. Forth : As the hon. Gentleman invites me to, I shall digress a moment—staying in order, I hope.
 Mr. Forth : The hon. Gentleman raises the same issue from a sedentary position. I am talking about length of experience in the House, not pension experience. I am very surprised that, from more than 400 Labour Members—I concede that a number are occupied with Government responsibilities—it was apparently difficult to find hon. Members who entered the House in 1992, 1987 or whenever to serve as trustees.
 Mr. Forth : The answer is that I do not know any of them because they have not been in this place long enough.
 Mr. Forth : I am grateful to the right hon. Lady for that response, but I am a little disconcerted—I think that that is the right word. I shall not make any further inquiries about the matter and I accept the right hon. Lady's explanation at face value. However, I am surprised that apparently it was not possible to find, from more than 400 Labour Members of Parliament, hon. Members with more experience to serve as trustees.
 Mr. Forth : I have no difficulty with any of that. If, as I said at the outset, we had been told briefly but carefully the rationale behind the names proposed, none of this discussion would have been necessary. If, for example, it had been explained that one of the trustees must be a general practitioner, that would have been sufficient. If it had been demonstrated that an hon. Member had relevant pensions experience, that might have been appropriate. If we could have found someone who was a new Member and a GP with pensions experience, we could have had the whole lot rolled into one. 1056
 Mr. Forth : I am grateful to the right hon. Lady. I am tempted, but I shall resist the temptation, to get into a side debate about whether new Members should be Chairmen of Select Committees. In that case, the freshness of view argument might indeed be relevant. It is an interesting
 1055
 Mr. Forth : I am confused. I hope that, as a result of my hon. Friend's intervention, the hon. Member for Workington will seek to catch your eye, Madam Speaker, and explain why, with his intimate knowledge of his colleagues, he thinks that they have pensions experience that would be useful to the trustees. He suggested strongly that they had such experience. My hon. Friend suggests, from the information available to him, that that may be in doubt. I hope that the hon. Gentleman will put our minds at rest—
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) indicated assent
 Mr. Forth : My right hon. Friend has expressed her support for the report, but does she share my unease about the analysis in paragraph 8? It says:
 "The Committee stage of a Bill, which is meant to be the occasion when the details of the legislation are scrutinised, has often tended to be devoted to political partisan debate rather than constructive and systematic scrutiny." 1069
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : May I offer the right hon. Lady a constructive suggestion? We should have a rolling debate on political donations, starting with a debate on the moralistic posturings of a political party that makes high-sounding noises about these matters, and going on with a continuing debate so that each time a revelation is dragged out of the Government by the media, we can debate that new fact.
17.  Mr. Illsley : What representations he has received regarding proposals to restrict colleges to offering degree courses by only one validating university. [14338]
 Mr. Illsley : I thank my hon. Friend for his reply.
 Mr. Eric Martlew  (Carlisle) : Can the Leader of the House find time for a debate on the performance of the west coast main line? As she will be aware, I have a special interest in that. I attended the press conference in March, when Virgin was awarded the franchise. Given all the private companies, I welcomed that. We were told that there would be 90 per cent. reliability in a year. This month, we have found out that the line is the worst performing railway in the country.
 Mr. Cook : Indeed it is. I have been a victim of that situation many times. If I were to express a personal view, which I will now, I would say that I do not believe in limitation of time. If one is to express a considered view, one must be given the time to express it clearly and understandably. Sadly, I am trying to represent the views of the Chairmen's Panel as they have been discussed in and out of session, so I am trying to do that authentically and with integrity, but on a personal note, I agree entirely. "We … do not think it appropriate for us to express any collective view on the merits or demerits of the main procedural changes proposed; those are matters for the House as a whole to resolve". 1087 "A general acceptance that the changes now proposed will be subject to review, refinement or even rescission before being written into the permanent standing orders of the House will be welcome."
 Mr. Frank Cook  (Stockton, North) : I am aware that I have already spoken on several occasions during this Parliament; on at least one of those occasions I spoke at considerable length. I want to assure the House that those speeches were not exercises in self-indulgence: I spoke because I needed to and I spoke at length because I needed to cover the subject. On this occasion, once again, I shall speak not because I want to be in the Chamber but because I have a job to do. I must explain that I am speaking as a member of the Chairmen's Panel. I have consulted collectively with my colleagues—and individually, in and out of formal session—and it would be remiss of me if I did not draw attention to some of the points that cause us concern as Chairmen. 1085 1086
 Mr. Frank Cook  (Stockton, North) : I remind the House that Mr. Don Dixon, now the noble Lord Dixon, was not swung round at all. He is still very much averse to the Jopling proposals. I remind the House that the need for Jopling arose because the Government left the reports issued so regularly and consistently by the Procedure Committee, of which I was also a member, on the shelf gathering dust.
 Mr. Howarth : As those with plenty to do always have time to do a little more, I think that we have a nomination from the hon. Member for Burnley. Given his qualification as a previous trustee of two pension funds, he is ideally qualified. We are making progress. 1059
 Mr. Howarth : I am flattered that the hon. Gentleman should consider me qualified to appoint senior Labour Members of the great and the good. That is not my duty and I think that he would regard it as presumptuous of me were I so to do. However, the hon. Member for Burnley (Mr. Pike) is in his place. I am sure that he has time to spare. He joined the House at the same time as I did in 1983. He and I find time to share holy communion from time to time and I am sure that he could be persuaded to serve on behalf of the House.
 Mr. Howarth : Frankly, that is garbage. I apologise to the hon. Gentleman. That is simply not true. The hon. Member for Twickenham (Dr. Cable) was chief economist at Shell. I do not dispute that he has something to offer from outside, but he has no knowledge of the workings of the House. He has six months' experience of being a Member, so he has no breadth of experience of the difficulties that hon. Members face.
 Mr. Howarth : I shall give way provided that the hon. Lady does not accuse me of prolonging the debate.
 Mr. Howarth : The hon. Lady makes a fair point. I promised that I would not speak for too long, so I shall begin to wind up my remarks because the next debate is on an important matter. 1060
 Mr. Gerald Howarth  (Aldershot) : I have promised to help to secure the re-election of Gerry Malone as the hon. Member for Winchester and I am already late for that appointment. That being so, I shall not delay the House for long, but an important matter is before us. [Interruption.] 1057
 Mr. Howarth : Is the hon. Gentleman volunteering?
 Mr. Howarth : That is unbelievably rich coming from the hon. Gentleman. Surely he has been reading the papers lately. He must have seen the Government's catalogue of incompetence, which reached a pinnacle this week—I am sure that there will be many more pinnacles to conquer in the coming weeks—with the nonsense about sponsorship by tobacco companies. I shall not pursue that matter, Mr. Deputy Speaker, or you will stop me. 1058
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : May I renew my call for an early debate on the operation of the law of perjury? Does my right hon. Friend share my disquiet that, in the many months that have passed since Jonathan Aitken discontinued his libel action against  The Guardian
 Mr. Graham Brady  (Altrincham and Sale, West) : I was surprised that the Leader of the House did not respond more favourably to earlier requests for an urgent debate on local government finance in the light of this morning's Audit Commission report, which shows a £1 billion shortfall in the local authority pension fund arising from the number of early retirements. It is projected in a few years to amount to some 12 per cent. of the local government salary bill. The Accounts Commission for Scotland suggests that the Government's changes to advance corporation tax will add 3.5 per cent. of the local authority salary bill to the cost of maintaining pension funds.
 Mr. Brady : Given that the Government apparently believe that the job subsidy under the new deal will create more jobs in small and medium enterprises, is it not obvious and unavoidable that the introduction of the minimum wage will cost jobs?
 Mr. Harry Barnes  (North-East Derbyshire) : As a little, bald-headed, man in his sixties, with glasses and false teeth and whose trousers do not match his jacket, I may seem an unlikely moderniser. However, I wish to press my right hon. Friend to consider having a debate on modernisation in Government time—although on a
 1044
 Mr. Dawson : Does my hon. Friend agree that national vocational qualifications form the cornerstone of essential policies such as welfare to work, the new deal and lifelong learning and that those are the policies that will appeal to and give hope and opportunities to so many people denied chances under the previous Government? Will he assure me that he will look into recent fraud cases relating to training providers offering NVQs, and ensure that people
 1023
3.  Mr. Dawson : What steps the Government are taking to prevent fraud against training and enterprise councils. [14322]
 Mr. Ian Bruce : How does scrapping grants for the poorest students help them?
 Mr. Ian Bruce  (South Dorset) : The right hon. Lady will know that, although six months have elapsed since the election, we do not yet have the Register of Members' Interests. May we have a debate to help hon. Members understand the rules? Under current rules, all of us must declare the amount and the donor concerning any outside interest or any funding of our private political offices. 1043
12.  Mr. Ennis : What assessment he has made of the coalfields learning initiative partnership; and if he will make a statement on the long-term financial security of grassroots lifelong learning projects in coalfield areas. [14331]
 Mr. Ennis : Projects within the partnership have been an excellent vehicle for driving forward the Government's commitment to lifelong learning processes and the reduction of unemployment, especially in places such as the Acorn centre in Grimethorpe in my constituency. Does my hon. Friend agree that such schemes are now established as a key component of post-16 education in the coalfield areas? Will he make the Further Education Funding Council aware of their success?
 Mr. John Austin  (Erith and Thamesmead) : I welcome my right hon. Friend's statement, giving time to make progress on the measure to restore democratic government to London. She will know that when the Greater London council was abolished, the responsibility for the local authority housing in Thamesmead and for all the development land and other assets was transferred to a private development company. The assurances about community participation in the company given by the Minister at the time—the right hon. Member for North-West Hampshire (Sir G. Young)—have been broken. My right hon. Friend may know that in the past few weeks,
 1045
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : Having listened to hon. Members' views, can the right hon. Lady confirm that the Prime Minister will make a statement to the House next week on the formula one fiasco, so that instead of continuing to pretend that his handling of the matter has been flawless and fooling no one, he can take the opportunity to show a little humility and strength of character by apologising to the House for his errors of judgment on the matter?
 Mr. Bercow : I am grateful to the Minister for that reply. Does she recognise that the policy of integrating children in special schools in mainstream education must have strict limits to it, for there are children whose presence in the classroom would be detrimental to the education of their peers? That point has been regularly impressed upon me by teachers in the 21 schools in the Buckinghamshire constituency that I have visited since 1 May.
11.  Mr. Bercow : What recent representations he has received concerning the special educational needs of children. [14330]
 Mr. John Cryer  (Hornchurch) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Derby, North (Mr. Laxton) on his maiden speech, which was excellent, and I am glad that
 1111 1112 1113
 Mr. John Gunnell  (Morley and Rothwell) : First, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I should like to say how delighted I am that your predecessor in the Chair did not call me at a time that would have meant that I spoke before new Members who have been present for longer than I, because I have enjoyed listening to their speeches. They have been extremely helpful to me and, although I cannot say that I have agreed with everything that has been said, they have been imaginative speakers. 1117 "some kind of legislative consultation with a flexible range of options." 1118 1119
 Mr. MacGregor : I said that sometimes I plead guilty. The Bill that I took through had an earlier form of Special Standing Committee procedure because it was in the early 1980s, before that recommendation. The principle and the benefits were the same. 1079 "identification by the Government as early as possible of any Bill it wished to be subject to a carry-over procedure", "that the procedure should only be used for Bills which are either to be subject to select committee type scrutiny or are introduced after a certain period in the session". 1080
 Mr. MacGregor : I thought I was your friend.
 Mr. MacGregor : I understand the reasons behind that suggestion, but I have always felt that the difficulty facing Ministers is that so many hon. Members want to intervene and probe the Minister on the legislation or whatever is being discussed that their speeches are inevitably lengthened. Will my right hon. Friend bear that in mind?
 Mr. John MacGregor  (South Norfolk) : I shall try to be as concise as possible, Madam Speaker. I speak as a supporter of appropriate modernisation, as I hope I demonstrated when I was Leader of the House—not least in setting up the Jopling Committee. My only regret about that is that there was insufficient time between the Committee's report and the 1992 general election to enable me to implement its recommendations. 1076 "Another major factor in the largely inflexible approach to legislation adopted hitherto is essentially that of the culture of the House." "there must be a will in all parts of the House to achieve cooperation wherever it is possible." "a distinct culture prevalent throughout Whitehall that the standing and reputation of Ministers have been dependent on their Bills getting through largely unchanged." 1077 "All parts of a Bill must be properly considered". "The time and expertise of Members must be used to better effect."
 Mr. MacGregor : One of my hobbies is mind reading, and as I made my last remark I could almost read the right hon. Lady's mind. I knew what she was thinking and I recognise her point, which is why I was treading fairly carefully. She is right in some respects, but I suspect that, in practice, when there is draft legislation followed by the normal processes, those processes may not necessarily be all that much shorter. The great merit will be that the House will pass more considered legislation. I hope that that will lead to our not having to revisit the legislation. 1078
 Mr. John McDonnell  (Hayes and Harlington)  In the light of newspaper reports this morning that Conservative peers are planning to vote against key elements of the programme on which the Government were elected, will my right hon. Friend allow an early debate on the proposed abolition of the hereditary peerage? As there are murmurings that they may vote against a ban on hunting, will she act with some urgency, so that the hunters may feel what it is like to be hunted?
 Mr. Keith Simpson  (Mid-Norfolk) : Will the Leader of the House return to a question put by the shadow Leader of the House, my right hon. Friend the Member for South-West Norfolk (Mrs. Shephard)? After questions to the Secretary of State for culture and popular enlightenment on Monday, there was a five-minute slot to discuss the millennium experience and for the Minister without Portfolio to answer questions. We had waited six months, and many hon. Members on both sides wanted to ask legitimate questions. I and many others had never seen the Minister without Portfolio before, and thought that he was a figment of virtual reality—until I realised that I had seen him before. On Wednesday afternoons, he is the chap who plays peekaboo behind the Chair—like Kenneth Williams, frowning at Labour Members and saying, "Ooh, you are awful." This project involves millions of pounds and is supposed to be a national celebration of the
 1046
 Mr. Linton : Will my hon. Friend assure the House that the Department of Health will work closely with the Home Office on screening, as envisaged in the Police Act 1964? The resources will then be found to enable organisations such as Big Brothers and Big Sisters to undertake the enormous job of screening the many thousands—potentially eventually tens or hundreds of thousands—of volunteers. They must be vigorously screened, not only through police records but through all available records, before such organisations can confidently use them for mentoring much younger children.
 Mr. Martin Linton  (Battersea) : I wish to thank Madam Speaker for selecting this subject for the Adjournment debate tonight. The subject is described in broad terms on the Order Paper as "Government support for young people from underprivileged families", but my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary will be aware that I wish to focus on one organisation that supports young people from underprivileged families. It does not yet exist in this country, but is one of the biggest charities in north America, where it has become famous for one specific service—the provision of mentors for children from one-parent families. 1131 1132
 Mr. Salter : I am sure that they are to the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Salter : I always find it bewildering when Conservative Members talk about the proportion of votes. Do I take it that the hon. Gentleman supports electoral reform and will back proportional representation?
 Mr. Martin Salter  (Reading, West) : The London underground.
 Mr. Martin Salter  (Reading, West) : I pay tribute to my hon. Friend the Member for Derby, North (Mr. Laxton) on his maiden speech and commend him for his patience not only tonight, but for waiting for what must be a proud moment. I commend him also for his commitment to Derby, its people and its football club. I have spent many a sad hour at Reading football club watching Derby hammer my poor chaps into the ground. I hope for my hon. Friend's sake that Derby does not have to face Reading again and that Derby has a more succesful period in the premiership than Reading would have done had it beaten my right hon. Friend the Leader of the House's side, Bolton Wanderers—a fact of which she cruelly reminded me when she responded to my maiden speech. 1109 1110
 Mr. Michael Fabricant  (Lichfield) : Is my right hon. Friend aware that the hon. Member for Workington (Mr. Campbell-Savours) implied that there was a corollary: that new Members might have experience in pensions? Having just referred to the "Vacher Dod" guide, I see that one of the new Members is an economics lecturer, another is a general practitioner and a third was a translator before coming to the House. They offer nothing to the Committee, other than newness and freshness—no experience in the running of pensions or the organisation of the House. No doubt they will contribute later to the debate on modernisation of the House, and argue how sensible it would be to introduce clapping.
 Mr. Fabricant : Be statesmanlike.
 Mr. Mike Hall  (Weaver Vale) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Earlier this week, we debated the motion and the right hon. Gentleman spoke in that debate. I do not know how he can claim that this is the first opportunity to debate it.
 Mr. Mike Hall  (Weaver Vale) : It was a good speech.
 Mr. Mike Wood  (Batley and Spen) : What is the answer?
 Mr. St. Aubyn : Will the Minister confirm that he has already taken the decision to withdraw from local education authorities the power to make discretionary awards to students in higher education? Why has he done that without proper consultation? Is he aware that, in taking away those discretionary awards, he is also taking away the student's right to the appeal process? In Surrey county, that process has enabled up to 40 per cent. of students to get at least part of the award for which they had applied.
 Mr. Waterson : I notice that it has taken until nearly 3.20 pm for the Minister for School Standards to make it to the Dispatch Box.
13.  Mr. Waterson
 Mr. Boateng : We are working closely with the Home Office and other interested agencies to ensure that we develop a framework of appropriate protocols and legislation to put in place the necessary safeguards to ensure that young children's interests and welfare are protected. I am delighted to learn that Big Brothers and Big Sisters will seek advice and assistance from the Home Office in that regard. 1135 1136
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Paul Boateng) : The House owes my hon. Friend the Member for Battersea (Mr. Linton) a debt of gratitude for raising this important issue: the future of our young people and the need to ensure that those who are underprivileged, for whatever reason, get the best possible start in life. We must mobilise the whole community to ensure that they do. 1133 "we cannot say we want a strong community and secure society when we ignore its very foundation: family life." 1134
 Mr. Keetch : Does the Minister recall the commitment that Labour gave before the election to help 250,000 long-term unemployed under-25s to receive the new deal? Will he comment on the figures supplied today by the Library which suggest that only 122,000 people qualify—
 Mr. Paul Tyler  (North Cornwall) : Will the Leader of the House switch her attention from contaminated donations to contaminated land? Is she aware that there have been conflicting statements in the past few days from Ministers in the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions? The Minister for the Regions, Regeneration and Planning said that he still expects to be able to site development to the tune of 50 per cent. on brown land rather than taking green-field sites, whereas the Minister for the Environment said that the work that should be undertaken to decontaminate contaminated land cannot go forward, because the Treasury cannot afford the very small sum—£14 million—that is necessary to progress that programme. May we be assured that there will be a Green Paper, a statement and a debate on the Government's intentions with regard to the development of green-field and brown-field sites in the near future?
 Mr. Peter L. Pike  (Burnley)  I was a trustee of two pension funds before I became a Member of the House. I have every confidence in those Labour Members who have been appointed to represent us. I am serving on the Modernisation Committee and the Ecclesiastical Committee, and I shall serve on the Select Committee on Deregulation, probably as Chairman. Therefore, I have plenty of work to do without being trustee of the fund.
 Mr. Peter L. Pike  (Burnley) : I am glad to have the opportunity to speak on the Modernisation Committee's report. The Prime Minister has rightly said, both before and since the general election, that if we are to improve democracy we must address the problems of democracy in the way the House functions. That is what the Modernisation Committee is addressing. There is much that we will have to do. 1081 1082
 Mr. Spring : Does the Minister not recognise that the Government's plans will have an impact on young people, particularly from low-income families? Given the Prime Minister's famous words, "Education, education, education," will the Minister take this opportunity now to apologise for the Government's attack on equal access to higher education?
4.  Mr. Spring : By how much he estimates that enrolment in 1998 in higher education will change, relative to the average levels of the previous three years. [14323]
 Mr. Robert Sheldon  (Ashton-under-Lyne) : It is clear that my right hon. Friend intends to be a reforming Leader of the House, following in the footsteps of Dick Crossman and Norman St. John-Stevas. The best time to undertake reform is in the early years of a Parliament and I am pleased that she is doing so. 1073 1074 1075
 Mr. Sheldon : My hon. Friend is absolutely right.
 Mr. Beggs : The Secretary of State's announcement of additional funding for further and higher education is
 1021
 The Minister for School Standards (Mr. Stephen Byers) rose
 Mr. Byers : Thank you so much. I felt the same myself.
 Mr. Byers : I am delighted that the hon. Gentleman came into the Chamber at 3.15 pm. I was getting worried that I would not have a single question to answer.
 Mr. Dorrell : Can the Secretary of State clear up a misunderstanding which was raised with me when I was in a Hertfordshire school last week? Does the right hon. Gentleman remember telling the Labour party conference that, under a Labour Government, there would be no return to selection? Will he confirm to the House that his White Paper makes it clear that specialist schools will be able to give priority to children who demonstrate a special aptitude? Can the Secretary of State make it clear to the House and the people of Hertfordshire what made him change his mind, or is there a difference between selection and giving priority to those who demonstrate aptitude?
 Mr. Dorrell : Can the Secretary of State confirm that the effect of his proposals is to raise the cost of a three-year degree course outside London for a typical middle-class student by £3,000, and that the cost of the same degree to a student from a low-income background will rise as a result of his proposals by £5,265? Why are the Government abolishing the means-tested maintenance grant when Dearing recommended that it should be sustained and when the effect of their policy is to deliver such discrimination against low-income students?
 Mr. Tom Levitt  (High Peak) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Derby, North (Mr. Laxton) on his maiden speech. He and I both represent Derbyshire constituencies. We fought the 1992 election together, and we were both in local government in Derbyshire, where we overlapped for four years. I am sure that we will have a partnership in the House which lasts much longer than that. 1120 1121
 Mr. Baldry : I am sure that the Secretary of State would agree that young people, either those in the new deal or those coming into employment generally, will be concerned about the level of the minimum wage. Both the TUC and the trade unions have made representations in respect of the minimum wage. Given the new dispensation, may we have an undertaking from the Government that if, eventually, the minimum wage is set at a level equal to or above what is proposed in those representations, the donations to the Labour party made by the trade unions before the general election will be returned to them?
 Mrs. Browning : When the Minister announces the outcomes of the review of special educational needs and whatever changes she decides to make, will she confirm that there will be no diminution in the current protection that the individual child has under the law—I stress "under the law"—and that existing statutes will be maintained?
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : The right hon. Gentleman says that if we give more time to certain Bills we will have to extend the overall time and have less legislation. Does he agree that in the strict routine that we have for legislation we do not always need to give matters as much time as we do? We are very good at wasting time in the House. The fact that we want to extend time in one area does not mean that it could not be saved in other areas.
 Mrs. Taylor : I am glad to have that confirmed.
 Mrs. Taylor : I know that my hon. Friend has done much work on Select Committees and I value her expertise. I cannot promise that we will recommend the changes that she suggests, but we will certainly come on to the work of Select Committees. All Members at that stage will have an opportunity to feed in their ideas and she will be able to expand on hers at that time. 1066
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : The right hon. Lady asked about the modernisation of Select Committees. We shall, of course, have to decide that in due course. I hope that we will get around to considering Select Committees, but I do not regard it as an immediate priority—not least because I think that most people believe that Select Committees work quite well.
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : I have been in the House longer than anyone who has spoken in the debate, with the exception of the right hon. Member for East Devon (Sir P. Emery), who has taken a keen interest in this matter for a long time. He implied that previous committees of the great and the good had perhaps not done as good a job as some of those who advocate that more of the great and the good should be trustees might think.
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : I beg to move,
 That this House approves the First Report of the Select Committee on Modernisation of the House of Commons: The Legislative Process (HC 190). 1062
 Mrs. Taylor : I think that our constituents would be surprised to learn that there is no job description for Members of Parliament. The problem is that one runs into significant difficulties as soon as one attempts to write such a document. That is why I acknowledge that all Members of Parliament do their considerable job in very different ways. The priorities I have expressed, such as the Chamber, Select Committees and constituency work, are all legitimate priorities. I suspect that all hon. Members would, or at least should, acknowledge that they have to cover all those points at some stage during their parliamentary life. 1067 [Interruption.]
 Mrs. Taylor : I have discussed the matter with the Chairman of Ways and Means. I understand that the Chairmen's Panel would like an experiment to be carried out—not just in one or two Standing Committees; a more widespread experiment. That would allow the changes to be experienced in different sets of circumstances. Perhaps we were not being adventurous enough for the Chairmen's Panel. There is, however, a constructive point to be made: if we are to conduct experiments, they must be sufficiently extensive for us to learn something from them. 1 do not think that I am breaking any confidences when I say that, when I spoke to the Chairman of Ways and Means, I undertook to consider that recommendation and to discuss it further, bearing the Panel's views in mind. I thought that those views showed a constructive approach to our suggestions. 1063 1064 1065
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : I reinforce the point that the right hon. Gentleman has made. The vast majority of Labour Members with the experience of the kind to which he refers are either members of the Government—it would not be appropriate for Ministers to serve on the body—or fulfilling other very responsible roles on Committees of the House. I think that he would be somewhat disconcerted if we suggested that new Members should assume the chairmanship of Select Committees in order to free more experienced Members for this kind of work.
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : I am grateful to the right hon. Gentleman for giving way. On Tuesday night, I offered him the chance to discuss the matter
 1054
 Mrs. Taylor : I think that the hon. Gentleman knows that the Government are committed to protecting the countryside and to helping regenerate towns and cities and provide the housing that is required. It is always a difficult balance under any Government. Each case has to be decided on its merits. I know that the specific problem of decontamination is very difficult, because there are often technical as well as financial problems. I cannot promise the hon. Gentleman time for a debate, but I shall bring his concerns to the attention of my right hon. and hon. Friends.
 Mrs. Taylor : My hon. Friend again tempts me to agree to a debate on the issue that he mentioned. I see the strength of that case, not least because I recall the many occasions on which I and my hon. Friends sat on the Opposition Benches asking that the Nolan committee be
 1042
 Mrs. Taylor : My hon. Friend raises a problem which is clearly of great concern to him and his constituents. It must be very depressing to be told that the line is the worst in the country and to endure experiences such as those that he described. I am sure that my hon. Friends in the relevant Department—and, indeed, the Rail Regulator—are aware of the problems. My hon. Friend the Member for Carlisle (Mr. Martlew) has made a strong case for highlighting the problem, but I am afraid that I cannot find time for a debate in the near future.
 Mrs. Taylor : I have to remind the right hon. Gentleman that Members of the previous Parliament of course had opportunities to vote for complete openness on political donations. I cannot remember him joining us in the Lobby.
 Mrs. Taylor : My hon. Friend is making a strong case for a debate such as he mentioned; we could make good use of parliamentary time on such issues. My problem is that we have such a crowded programme. However, issues such as this will not go away and will be aired at some time in some place.
 Mrs. Taylor : I hope to be able to give two weeks' notice of business quite often. I cannot promise to do it on all occasions, and the second week's business will be provisional, of course, but I undertake to try to give as much notice of business as possible, and I am grateful to the right hon. Lady for her comments.
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : The business for next week will be as follows. Official Report. [Lords] 1038 Official Report.
 Mrs. Taylor : The special slot for millennium questions was the result of popular demand. I am sure that my hon. Friend the Minister without Portfolio will be glad to know that he is so popular.
 Mrs. Taylor : My hon. Friend is quite right, and he is consistent. He was one of those who, in the previous Parliament, on several occasions raised the question whether political funding should be referred to the Nolan committee. Had our frequent requests been granted, the Conservative party's problems with political party funding might not have occurred.
 Mrs. Taylor : I am not aware of the details of the situation to which my hon. Friend refers, and I am not sure whether it is within the scope of the measure that I announced we are to debate next week. He may consider such a topic to be suitable for an Adjournment debate.
 Mrs. Taylor : I shall look into that.
 Mrs. Taylor : On the last point, I remind the hon. Gentleman that he and his hon. Friends tried to make that point during the previous Parliament, and it was established without doubt that my right hon. Friends obeyed the rules that were in place at that time. It is important that all hon. Members understand the rules. The forms sent out and the advice available are very clear. Of course, we now also have a code of conduct. The register will be published later this month.
 Mrs. Taylor : I sympathise with the experience of my hon. Friend's constituent. To have somebody hurt in such a way in the school playground must be extremely alarming. I know that, in my constituency, a bus driver found himself under threat because of the misuse of laser pointers.
 Mrs. Taylor : I have no problems in thinking of my hon. Friend as a moderniser, especially on that subject, because he has campaigned for a significant time for changes, with much justification. I am sure that improvements can be made in the system of registration, and a review is currently examining what can be done. My hon. Friend may have heard my hon. Friend the Minister for Local Government and Housing say only this week that, together with local authorities, she is now examining the possibility of using different types of buildings, including possibly supermarkets, as centres for voting, to make it easier for people to exercise their democratic rights. I do not know whether that is too modern for my hon. Friend, but I hope that he appreciates that much thought is going into the subject.
 Mrs. Taylor : I am not at all reluctant to find time to debate the funding of political parties. The problem is that we have a crowded programme and, although several of my hon. Friends have pointed out why we should be tempted to have such a debate, we have little time to do so.
 Mrs. Taylor : My hon. Friend raises an interesting issue. I am afraid that I cannot find time for such a debate in the near future, but I shall keep it in mind.
 Mrs. Taylor : Internal Labour party matters are not a subject for debate in the House.
 Mrs. Taylor : We will not take any lectures from the hon. Gentleman, who was a member of a Government who did not believe in accountability at all.
 Mrs. Taylor : The electoral commission has not yet been appointed; nor have its terms of reference yet been made public or, indeed, completed. I know that some hon. Members have experience of PR, and in the next few months that matter will probably be debated on several occasions.
 Mrs. Taylor : There has been a significant welcome for Keith Hellawell's appointment. Whether we use the term drugs tsar or anti-drugs co-ordinator, it is an important role and his job will be to advise Government on how we can build on the current strategy. Drugs are a significant problem and do indeed wreck many people's lives and cause a great deal of criminal activity.
 Mrs. Taylor : I do not think that there is any requirement for any apology for any errors of judgment. The decisions that were taken were the right decisions, taken for the right reasons.
 Mrs. Taylor : I do not think that I can find time for such a debate, but I shall draw my hon. Friend's comments to the relevant Ministers' attention.
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman is right that an awful lot of money is spent that way, but the liability has not built up since May. Local authority finances are debated in the House from time to time. The next significant discussion of such issues will be on a statement on what used to be the rate support grant settlement, which, as I said earlier, will be later this year.
 Mrs. Taylor : As I do not read them out, my hon. Friend may not know that the debates next Wednesday morning include one on Oxford and Cambridge college fees.
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : With permission, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I should like to say a few words in reply to the debate. I will not have as much time as the hon. Member for South Staffordshire (Sir P. Cormack) to deal with every contribution, but that is fine by me because, in many respects, he was replying on behalf of those of us who served on the Committee. As I said earlier, it was a constructive Committee which produced a unanimous report. [Interruption.] 1127 1128
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : I hope that the right hon. Gentleman will give the Government credit for the assurance that he has been given that the Northern Ireland police Bill will be introduced in the House.
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : Oh, come on.
 Mrs. Taylor : I hope that the right hon. Gentleman will also agree that if measures are to be introduced by means of primary legislation in the House rather than by Orders in Council, which is what he is requesting, there will be some delay. The right hon. Gentleman is saying, in part, that Bills must be discussed in a proper way. He will understand that slots must be found for many different pieces of proposed legislation. The right hon. Gentleman must take into account the fact that there will be delays.
 Mrs. Anne Campbell : I know that further education colleges in my constituency will warmly welcome the announcement made by my right hon. Friend yesterday. Does he agree that it is an important part of the package to convince young people that further and higher education are worthwhile investments, and that those who take a degree are far more likely to have higher earnings, certainly by their mid-30s and for the rest of their lives, than non-graduates of the same ability?
9.  Miss McIntosh : If he will make a statement on funding problems in respect of students resident in England studying at Scottish universities. [14328]
 Miss McIntosh : How will the Minister explain to students in Pontypridd and the Vale of York that they will be disadvantaged by having to pay £1,000 more than Scottish students to do the same course? Will he tell the House how Scottish universities might make up any shortfall if students who wish to do a four-year degree—as I did at the university of Edinburgh—are not in a financial position to do so? Will he invite the Prime Minister to intervene in the dispute between the Department for Education and Employment and the Scottish Office?
 Barbara Follett : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend for his reply and for the funds that he announced for the further education sector yesterday. Does he agree that those funds will send an important signal to the students
 1020
2.  Barbara Follett : If he will make a statement on his proposals to increase funding for higher education. [14321]
 Mrs. Shephard : I thank the right hon. Lady for her reply. It helps the House to be given two weeks' business, and to hear the fuller statements that she is giving. 1040
 Mrs. Gillian Shephard  (South-West Norfolk) : May I ask the Leader of the House to give next week's business?
 Mrs. Shephard : The right hon. Lady heard what her hon. Friend the Member for Stoke-on-Trent, North said. Of course we have a great deal of work in front of us in any case before we get to Select Committees. 1070 1071 "the regular practice for Government bills of first class constitutional importance to be committed to a Committee of the whole House". 1072
 Mrs. Shephard : As I said, I am very interested in what the hon. Lady says. May I ask the Leader of the House whether we are to consider Select Committees eventually? There will be varied experiences among the Committee's members—hon. Members who have served on Committees, chaired Committees and been grilled by them. The examples quoted by the hon. Member for Stoke-on-Trent, North are useful. There should be an opportunity to consider things in depth. Although I am not being asked to say all this, I do not think that Select Committees should be asked to respond instantly to the political flavour of the moment. Their work ought to be more on-going, but that has not always been so.
 Mrs. Gillian Shephard  (South-West Norfolk) : As the Leader of the House has pointed out, the report has been agreed unanimously by the Committee and we all welcome that. I know that my hon. Friends the Members for Macclesfield (Mr. Winterton) and for Aldridge-Brownhills (Mr. Shepherd) have been in touch with her to explain that they had engagements which predated their membership of the Committee and that that was why they could not be here today. 1068 "the position of Government must not be undermined and the Government of the day must still be able to get its business; the Opposition must have adequate opportunity to oppose and its legitimate rights must be sustained; back benchers must have adequate scope to raise matters of concern to them or their constituents, but a balance has to be struck between unlimited freedom for back benchers and the efficient operating of Parliament as a law-making body."
 Mrs. Shephard : As I said, I think that the report is a little optimistic in the way in which it tends to ignore the political nature of activities in the House, which, after all, is one of the points of its existence. However, as we do not intend to be in opposition for very long, my right hon. Friend's anxiety is perhaps ill-founded and needless.
 Helen Jackson  (Sheffield, Hillsborough) : I am happy to follow some of the remarks of the right hon. Member for Upper Bann (Mr. Trimble), because he has raised important issues about Northern Ireland legislation being properly considered, scrutinised and consulted on during our deliberations. I am sure that the Select Committee on Modernisation will wish to take his comments on board. 1093 1094
 Ms Hodge : May I, too, congratulate the Secretary of State on his ingenuity and skill in finding an additional
 1022
 Mrs. May : The Secretary of State will be aware of the various comments made by spokesmen for Scottish universities on the likely impact of the decision by the Government that English, Northern Ireland and Welsh students will have to pay the full £4,000 tuition fees, while students from other European member states and Scotland will not. Is he aware that in last week's debate on higher education funding, the Minister for Education and Industry, Scottish Office dismissed the statements that had been made by the Scottish universities on the issue? Who is presenting the correct picture—the Minister or the universities?
 Ms Beverley Hughes : Does my hon. Friend agree that our starting point on this issue is that we recognise that the current system of student support patently does not work? It is also unfair, as it requires part-time and mature students to pay fees. Does he also agree that the Government's proposals—provided that students from low-income families are protected, as they will be—are the best means of ensuring fairer access to, and better funding for, higher education?
 Ms Beverley Hughes  (Stretford and Urmston) : May I welcome the appointment of Chief Constable Keith Hellawell as co-ordinator of the Government's drugs initiatie—an appointment which has been widely welcomed? Many of us wait with anticipation for his work to start, because drugs continue to be a significant problem, affecting many of our young people and associated with high levels of crime. When will my right hon. Friend be in a position to make a statement to the House on the terms of reference of his appointment, and on his immediate and long-term objectives and how he may set about achieving them?
 Ms Ward : I thank my right hon. Friend for his acknowledgement of the problems in Hertfordshire. Is he aware that many parents in my constituency of Watford have serious concerns about the forthcoming round of selections by academic ability, which will result in some children not obtaining a place in any school of their choice, and the subsequent emotional effect on the children? Will he assure me that, in any forthcoming legislation, he will take into account the specific difficulties that face Watford and south-west Hertfordshire in the admissions process for secondary schools?
10.  Ms Ward : What measures he proposes for the improvement of the present admissions procedure to secondary schools in the Hertfordshire area. [14329]
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Ms Estelle Morris) : We are beginning to receive responses to the Green Paper "Excellence for all Children", which was published on 22 October. 1 look forward to hearing from a wide range of interests during consultation on the Green Paper.
 Ms Morris : The hon. Lady is absolutely right. We have not suggested that the rights of a child or a parent will be changed by some of the ideas that we have put forward. The hon. Lady's supplementary question gives me the opportunity to say that parents will retain the right to seek a statement, if that is what they feel that their child needs, and to go before a tribunal.
 Ms Morris : The hon. Gentleman is entirely right. It is sad that many children who go through the school system with the designation of SEN would have had different levels of attainment had their special needs been recognised at an early stage. We should be trying to recognise children with special difficulties even before they start school. 1031
 Ms Morris : Of course I recognise that, and the Green Paper recognises it as well. There are some pupils for whom it is more appropriate, in their interests and in the interests of children who might be educated in the same class, that they go to a special school, perhaps for a short time, and not always for the whole of their career. Throughout the country, there are good examples of schools that include children with disabilities and children with special needs in mainstream classes. We want to encourage that. There are good reasons why, wherever possible, children who are deemed to have special educational needs should be educated with children of their age in mainstream classes. We will encourage that by spreading good practice and by reversing the cut that the Conservative Government made to the money available to schools to make the adaptations necessary for access.
 Ms Helen Southworth  (Warrington, South) : May we have an early debate on the hazards of laser pointers? On Friday, the eyes of a young girl in my constituency were damaged in her school playground by a laser used by another pupil. The Trading Standards Authority told me that, of the 49 laser pointers that it has tested, fewer than 5 per cent. were safe. It also told me that some of the type 2 lasers that it had taken were in fact type 3 and hazardous. It is very concerned about that. As the House will understand, I, too, am very concerned about the hazards to children in my constituency.
 Ms Jenny Jones  (Wolverhampton, South-West) : I am grateful for the opportunity to contribute to the debate. I, too, congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Derby, North (Mr. Laxton) on his maiden speech. 1114
 Ms Walley : It is crucial that Select Committees play an important part in what goes on. I believe that the Environment Sub-Committee—a new Select Committee which has been set up since the election—along with the Public Accounts Committee, provided that it has adequate resources, could make important progress.
 Ms Walley : Does my right hon. Friend agree that, if the Environmental Audit Committee had those facilities, that would make an enormous difference to the role which it plays in seeing whether the Government are making progress?
 Ms Joan Walley  (Stoke-on-Trent, North) : May I draw to my right hon. Friend's attention how pleased I am with the progress in respect of legislation? That is absolutely crucial, but a further aspect concerns me as well, which I hope the Committee will have an opportunity to move on to because it is important, too. It is how Parliament has proper scrutiny through Select Committees of what the Government are doing. May I bring to her attention the work and recommendations of the Select Committee on Trade and Industry, of which I am a current member and on which I have sat previously? Recommendations in its report relate to the Crown jewels procedure and to whether we should have a procedure for parliamentary investigations instigated by the House or by Select Committees. In certain circumstances, such a parliamentary investigation could perhaps have more resources than Select Committees currently have for particular inquiries. I urge her to consider that issue, too, when we have got through this legislative programme for improving our procedures.
 Ms Walley : If the hon. Gentleman is so concerned about the proceedings of the House, would it not be better if we could make some progress and get on to the debate on how we run the place?
 Ms Joan Walley  (Stoke-on-Trent, North) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
14.  Ms Drown : How he will ensure that small and medium enterprises are able to be involved in the Government's new deal to help young people move from welfare to work. [14334]
 Ms Drown : I welcome that response. Swindon has fewer young unemployed people than many other parts of Britain; nevertheless, they are a priority for the business community and the Employment Service. Swindon is
 1033
 Ms Morgan : I thank my hon. Friend for his reply, which I am sure will be welcomed by hon. Members on both sides of the House. How does he propose to link the opportunities to be made available under the new deal and the millennium project with the social exclusion unit and the many young people who have become alienated and disaffected over the past 18 years?
1.  Ms Julie Morgan : What plans he has to encourage and support voluntary work in the community. [14320]
 Rev. Martin Smyth : Will the Minister confirm that there needs to be better teacher training so that teachers are able to identify more quickly children who have special needs such as dyslexia and autism? It is important that those children's needs are dealt with earlier.
 Rev. Martin Smyth  (Belfast, South) : In the light of press reports that the Government will appoint a commission to consider proportional representation, may we have a statement so that hon. Members who have experience of the two forms of PR elections held in the United Kingdom may contribute to the debate?
 Sir Patrick Cormack : It was, and it would repay close study by all hon. Members, including those who are not present this evening. 1125
 Sir Patrick Cormack  (South Staffordshire) : It is a pleasure to follow the hon. Member for High Peak (Mr. Levitt). It has been an interesting debate. I have been thinking a lot about Jopling this evening. I was one of those who were very much in favour of the Jopling report. I urged my right hon. and hon. Friends to accept it and I voted for it. But Thursdays were different before Jopling, and the hon. Member for Hornchurch (Mr. Cryer) was right in much, although not all, of what he said. There is a lesson for us there. In seeking to reform the House, we must be careful that we do not reform the life out of it. That is crucial. 1122 1123 1124
 Sir Patrick Cormack : That is a very good sentiment, but we are all human and we all love a bit of a gloat occasionally. It is the triumph of hope over experience if the hon. Lady thinks that she is going to banish gloating from the Palace of Westminster, but, of course, I take her point. 1126
 Sir Patrick Cormack : They are.
 Sir Patrick Cormack  (South Staffordshire) : Does the hon. Lady accept that such behaviour did not begin on 1 May?
 Sir Peter Emery : I know that it is early days yet, but a lot of legislation is coming through now and I hope to receive an assurance that some of it will go to a Special Standing Committee. "the power to limit the length of speeches should apply to Ministers and other frontbench spokesmen" 1084
 Sir Peter Emery : I am sorry—the right hon. Member is a close friend, if I may say so without being misinterpreted. The Special Standing Committee procedure has been in the Standing Orders for long enough and the report urges that it should be used more often. I am sorry to say that we have not yet seen it used by the Government.
 Sir Peter Emery  (East Devon) : I am delighted to follow the hon. Member for Burnley (Mr. Pike). He serves with me on the Select Committee on Modernisation of the House of Commons and was an astute Member of my Procedure Committee for many years in the previous Parliaments. He would support my claim that nobody has been a greater procedural reformer in the House than I have tried to be over the 14 years that I chaired the Procedure Committee.
 Sir Peter Emery : I do not disagree with anything that the hon. Gentleman says. It only goes to show that proposals need Government support, whichever Government are in power, and I shall fight this Government as I fought my own to advance the procedures. 1083
 Sir Peter Emery : I entirely agree with my close and right hon. Friend. However, like the hon. Member for Burnley, I believe that if a time limit is applied, additional time should be allowed when interventions use up part of the allotted time.
 Sir Peter Emery  (East Devon) : I wish to refer to the hon. Members who are to be appointed trustees, because it is important that something that has, historically, involved considerable battling over many years should be understood by the new trustees. I think that at least five of the eight came to the House at this year's general election.
 Sir Peter Emery  (East Devon) : According to paragraph 16 of the Chairmen's Panel report on the Modernisation Committee's proposals concerning the legislative process, the panel's members
 "see some difficulty in adapting to this method of proceeding."
 Sir Peter Emery : May I point out to my right hon. Friend that the recommendations for a Special Standing Committee procedure were made by the Procedure Committee in 1988–89 but seldom, if ever, carried out by the Government of which he was a member?
 Sir Peter Emery : I do not know whether the hon. Gentleman was in the Division Lobby with me. I have the Division list before me—
 Sir Peter Emery : Thank you, Madam Speaker. As long as I know that you were with me, that is all that matters.
 Sir Peter Emery : I was trying to make it clear, so that nobody misunderstands, that, at that time, the referral was one sixtieth. We tried to reduce it to one fortieth so that 20 years' service would give a half pension. The Conservative Government refused to accept the motion of the House and came back, in February 1981, with all the Whips on and proceeded to refer back to one sixtieth. In July 1983, that was changed to an accrual of one fiftieth.
 Sir Peter Emery : I have never considered giving evidence to the trustees. They have prepared a whole host
 1050 Hansard
 Sir Brian Mawhinney  (North-West Cambridgeshire) : The Home Secretary might have mentioned the thousands of extra police in London since the Conservative Government came to power in 1979, but we can debate that. In his report, the Commissioner links a decrease in police numbers last year with two factors: the London formula and the Police and Firemen's Pensions Act 1997. Do I take it, from the Home Secretary's criticism of the previous Government, that he will change the London formula and the way of paying police pensions, in order to give more comfort to the Commissioner?
 Sir Brian Mawhinney  (North-West Cambridgeshire) : I congratulate the Home Secretary, first on becoming the police authority for London and, secondly, on his ingenuity. I wondered how the right hon. Gentleman would avoid having to dwell on his party's abysmal record in opposition over the past few years when it vigorously opposed and voted against many laws that now, as Home Secretary, the right hon. Gentleman will want to see applied to the benefit of the public. Even I did not think that he would have the ingenuity to go back to 1829. I greatly enjoyed his historical review. 1149 1150
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : That is another new Labour commitment. It is a promise and we shall judge them accordingly in the next four years. 1151
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : I think that Churchill had something to say about the number one. I make a serious point about the contribution of good policing at sporting events.
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : I am grateful to the Home Secretary and I know that Westminster city council will also be grateful. 1152 [Interruption.]
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : There is obviously not a commitment on the part of the Government to continue the work. I will be the first to congratulate the Government on yet another U-turn if they ever get round to identifying some money, as the Minister of State has hinted. If he makes such an announcement, the House will recognise, first, that the Government are doing what they should do and, secondly, that they are doing it under pressure and without the commitment that characterised the last Government.
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : Yes, and it is the third time the Minister has said that at the Dispatch Box. Looking at the record of the last Government—which I have, in part, given to the House—one must choose between a Government who put their money where their mouth was throughout the country and a Government who will make no commitment even to the principle of continuing CCTV, much less to the provision of money for it. I have no doubt which side the public would choose.
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : I am happy to tell the House that I have no responsibility for funding decisions by the
 1153
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : I encourage the hon. Lady to go to the Library and ask for the paper that covers expenditure on policing in England and Wales.
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : If the Minister does not mind, I shall answer his hon. Friend's question and then give way to him. If the hon. Lady goes to the Library for that information, she will see that there has been a real-terms increase of about 70 to 75 per cent. in expenditure on policing in England and Wales. She will see a second line on the graph, which runs above the England and Wales figures except for one year in 18. It shows the expenditure in London, which is higher than the average expenditure in England and Wales.
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : I thought the Minister would have understood the Home Secretary when he reaffirmed to the House what he was told by the previous Home Secretary—that the disbursement of resources is the responsibility of the chief officer in each force. In that context, I asked the Home Secretary whether that meant that he was to change the London formula or the pensions bill—two important issues identified by the Commissioner. We received an equivocal answer from the Home Secretary. "The citizens of this country should not have to put up with the high levels of crime and insecurity which we have seen in recent years, and in many areas they are already seeing the benefits of voluntary collaboration between the police service, local authorities and other local agencies in partnerships to reduce crime. The Government wants to build on this excellent work by providing a new legislative framework to ensure that the contribution of all the key partners to the prevention and reduction of crime is maximised, and to ensure that local people are given every opportunity to contribute to the process." 1154 "In 1994 the Watchlink Unit was formed and assumed responsibility for neighbourhood watch support and development in the Earlsfield and Tooting areas."
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : I intend to be much more subtle, but I am grateful to the Home Secretary for being my straight man. My point is serious. The right hon. Gentleman's document makes it clear that at all levels the Metropolitan police want to enter partnership schemes. The Home Secretary tells us that 90 per cent. of local authorities recognise community safety as an area of work that is relevant to theft. He says that two thirds are already engaged in independent, multi-agency partnerships and two thirds undertook local crime pattern analysis. "It costs nothing for a local authority to make crime one of the many factors which is routinely considered when, say, new policies for the delivery of social services are planned,". 1155
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : I understand that that is the Home Secretary's objective and I am aware of the Morgan report of 1991. Perhaps I know more about the matter than the right hon. Gentleman gives me credit for. My point is about what has happened in the interim. Because we encouraged it, voluntary development has proceeded apace. I am unimpressed by the Home Secretary's argument that, through legislation, he will be able to force Labour councillors to do what by instinct they are not prepared to do now on behalf of those who elected them. They will create a bureaucratic nightmare. We shall return to this matter throughout this Parliament.
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : No, because there is to be a statement at 11 o'clock and I must finish before it.
 1156 1157 "Labour fully supports the Metropolitan Police in their fight against crime … Those who assault and rob should be caught and punished". "many people in London don't feel safe when they are out". "Labour boroughs have been at the forefront of partnerships against crime".
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : Will the hon. Lady confirm that this exciting partnership was entered into voluntarily by the police and the local authority because both recognised its importance for the people whom they serve?
 Sir Brian Mawhinney : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Dr. Jenny Tonge  (Richmond Park) : The previous Government should die with "Queen Mary's" etched on their collective heart, and I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to say that in the House of Commons. Queen Mary's is a spacious site and was once a fine hospital with easy access from all parts of south-west London and the suburbs.
 Dr. Reid : Yes, indeed. I agree that a diplomatic solution is better from everyone's point of view: first, because of the assistance that the resulting period of stability provides to allow the identification and destruction of weapons of mass destruction and to ensure that they will never be deployed in anger, and secondly, because it avoids the potentially cataclysmic effects of any other measures that have to be used. That is why I stress that we are committed to finding a diplomatic solution to the problem. That has been reiterated this morning in the discussions between the US Secretary of State and my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary.
 Dr. Reid : I thank the right hon. and learned Gentleman. I confirm his comments on Saddam Hussein's defiance, not of any individual country, but, through the United Nations, of the whole international community. The right hon. and learned Gentleman correctly pointed to the evil nature of the Iraqi regime. We do not need to study the books or the crystal ball to know that—it is in our historical experience. I agree with him about the nature of the threat resulting from the expelling of UNSCOM. It is not a formal United Nations presence in Iraq; it is a vital instrument in maintaining a careful watch over, and probing further into, the holding of terrible weapons—biological, chemical and other—of potential mass destruction.
 Dr. Reid : I cannot give my hon. Friend details of what other measures are being taken. I assume that our colleagues—especially permanent members of the Security Council—are involved at all levels in our efforts, primarily public and diplomatic. However, I hope and expect that sensible measures, other than diplomatic, are being taken by all those who wish to be prepared for every and any contingency.
 Dr. Reid : We would wish to stress at the moment the unanimity with which our allies are approaching the matter. We all come from different experiences and individual national positions. Thus far, there has been unanimity. We wish to ensure that any future action has the widest political support, whether on a diplomatic or any other basis. 1161
 Dr. Reid : I thank the hon. Gentleman for the points that he makes. He reinforces the point—of which I think the British people will and should be aware—that it is not a matter of some formal imposition as a result of abstract United Nations resolutions. UNSCOM's work and the measures taken by the United Nations are absolutely vital if we are to ensure that weapons of mass destruction with terrible, terrible consequences are, first, identified and, secondly, disposed of.
 Dr. Reid : I say with great respect to my hon. Friend that others might not regard as diplomacy giving Saddam Hussein a veto in dictating to the rest of the world how to implement resolutions. It might just be interpreted as appeasement, and we certainly do not want to go down that path.
 Dr. Reid : I agree with the hon. Gentleman. As for the nature of the regime, by his deeds shall ye know him. No words that I can use could illustrate the situation more amply than the actions of Saddam Hussein himself. He has not only inflicted evil on his neighbours and presented a threat to the international community, but he has inflicted evil on the Iraqi people themselves—including the marsh arabs—and used gas and chemical weapons on Kurds in northern Iraq. He remains a threat not only to his neighbours but to the stability of the entire region. The weapons that comprise that threat are horrible indeed. They are potentially weapons of widespread mass destruction.
 Dr. Reid : We wish to ensure that both sides of the House are involved in continuing discussions. On my hon. Friend's specific question, such a debate will, of course, depend on events. I stress again that—as outlined in this morning's discussions between my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary and Mrs. Albright—we are intent on finding a diplomatic solution to the situation. Therefore, it is too early to respond directly to such a request. We wish to ensure the widest possible support for some form of international diplomatic solution—commensurate with maintenance of the will of the United Nations and previous resolutions, which have had widespread, indeed unanimous, support.
 Dr. Reid : I think that I have already answered that question; the answer is yes.
 The Minister for the Armed Forces (Dr. John Reid) : Saddam Hussein is continuing to defy the clearly expressed will of the United Nations and the international community by refusing to allow the UN Special Commission—UNSCOM—to carry out weapons inspections and, now, by expelling UN personnel.
 Dr. Vincent Cable  (Twickenham) : May I take this opportunity to add the support and appreciation of the Liberal Democrats for the work of the Metropolitan police? My hon. Friend the Member for Southwark, North and Bermondsey (Mr. Hughes) has done that over the years, and I should like to continue that. We do not appreciate only the professionalism and courage of officers, which have been highlighted by the recent tragic death of WPC Nina Mackay. As a new Member of Parliament, I have noticed the courtesy and openness of the police service, both in Scotland Yard and in the local division. The police have shown a willingness to invite us in and talk with us without being defensive, which I had not expected from the police and which I find refreshing. 1173 1174 1175 1176
 Dr. Cable : I thank the Home Secretary. Many police officers, as well as members of the public, will be reassured by that clarification.
 Mr. Michael : I recognise the seriousness of the issues with which the right hon. Gentleman is dealing. Will he, however, recognise that the term "zero tolerance" can be used in a variety of ways? The Government have used the term with some care. We have used it in terms of trying
 1170
 Mr. Michael : Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman will do what he promised and answer the question my hon. Friend the Member for Barking (Ms Hodge) asked. She asked about police numbers; the test that the last Government set for themselves—and failed.
 Mr. Michael : What about police numbers?
 The Minister of State, Home Office (Mr. Alun Michael) : Having been corrected on this matter once already, the right hon. Gentleman should have done his research. He should apologise for the fact that his predecessor grossly overspent the budget for the current year and the allocations made before the general election, and made no allocation whatsoever in budget lines for the future. Promises at a general election are easy for a Government who know they are going to lose power.
 The Minister of State, Home Office (Mr. Alun Michael) : The remarks by the hon. Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) were appropriate for bringing us to the end of the best debate on policing I have heard during my time in the House. I have my own reasons for feeling a keen sense of the privilege of speaking in this debate and of sharing in part the responsibilities of my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary as the police authority for London. 1204 1205 1206
 Mr. Michael : I have only a few minutes in which to try to deal with all the issues covered by a range of hon. Members. 1207
 Mr. Michael : If the hon. Gentleman thinks that it was such a generous offer, will he explain why the previous Government did not put it in the budget lines?
 Mr. Michael : It is easy to judge the previous Government by their record. In 1992, they promised 1,000 additional police officers and failed to deliver them; in fact, they cut police numbers. They failed to provide for CCTV beyond this year. That is a failure to meet the rhetoric that they used in the pre-election period. It is simple.
 Mr. Michael : For the sixth time!
 Mr. Barry Gardiner  (Brent, North) : I add my praise to the Metropolitan police. Brent is the most multicultural and diverse area in Europe. Therefore, I especially welcome the Government's proposal to institute a distinct offence of racially motivated assault. In passing, I say that I especially welcome it because it may make life somewhat more peaceful in Brent town hall, where, recently, Conservative Councillor Peter Golds was reported to the police for attempting to strangle his fellow Conservative, of Irish extraction, Councillor Sayers, on the ground that he had attended a twinning ceremony in Dublin. I am sure, however, that that is not the legislation's purpose. 1198
 Mr. Barry Gardiner  (Brent, North) : I thank my hon. Friend for the way in which he has placed the matter
 1164
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Does my hon. Friend agree that if the narrowly based coalition decides to attack Iraq, the chances of hitting the tyrant Saddam are very small, but that the chances of inflicting death on innocent people, women and kids in Iraq are very high? I note his desire to continue with some form of diplomacy, but will he consider another possibility? When United Nations forces have been sent to other areas on previous occasions, it has sometimes been specified that certain countries should not send component parts of that force. Everyone agrees that one of the problems behind the latest decision by Saddam was that there were too many Americans in the inspection team. Before people are slaughtered, would it not be a good idea to call his bluff, and to consider the proposition that there are other
 1162
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : Are any other members of the Gulf war coalition, apart from the United States and ourselves, taking similar sensible precautionary measures?
 Mr. Edward Davey  (Kingston and Surbiton) : I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for this opportunity to raise a matter of crucial importance to my constituents.
 Mr. Davey : I agree with my hon. Friend and I share his concerns. I am aware of the cuts that have been experienced by the local health authority in his constituency, which are similar to those that have been experienced in mine. We shall be grateful if the Minister will comment. 1210 1211
 Mr. Edward Davey  (Kingston and Surbiton) : I join right hon. and hon. Members who have paid tribute to the Metropolitan police. I would also like to thank the police in Kingston, including Bill Wilson, a very distinguished policeman who was the chief superintendent of our local division for several years and who retired earlier this year, and Peter Lally, his replacement, whom I welcome. I wish him well in his work. 1186 1187 1188
 Mr. Davey : Of course new money is welcome, but there will still be a financial deficit in that health authority next year which will cause problems. The Government have a problem. They have to pick up the pieces left by their predecessors. I wish them well, but I urge them to realise that, in south-west London, they must act promptly and decisively if patient safety is to be maintained next year.
 Mr. Geraint Davies : Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that, in Croydon, a significant amount of money came from the local authority and the private sector in an initiative pioneered by that partnership? The previous Government did provide additional money, but such partnerships have been pioneered in the past by Labour authorities. There is obviously a commitment on the part of the Government to continue that work.
 Mr. Geraint Davies : As for combating youth crime, is my right hon. Friend aware that in Croydon the police
 1148
 Mr. Geraint Davies  (Croydon, Central) : Is my right hon. Friend aware of the considerable initiatives undertaken in Croydon involving the local authority and the local police force? They have combined to reduce the level of crime significantly and to increase the level of detection. Will he comment on the relationship between increasing police effectiveness and resources? There is a slight concern that, where local authorities and police work very well together to reduce crime, the net result may be a reduction in the number of police officers: if the level of crime is reduced in an area, the resources are switched to areas with a higher propensity for crime. How is my right hon. Friend confronting that difficult issue?
 Mr. Straw : I know a good deal about what has happened in Croydon, where there has been a long-standing excellent partnership between police and local authorities. Our policies will build on successful activities throughout the country and strengthen the relationship between police and local authorities. 1144 1145
 Mr. Straw : Yes, the hon. Gentleman is right. I should clarify the fact that the 12,000 figure is the total number of injuries—I shall come to that later in my speech—but some 3,000 officers are injured each year as a result of assaults and, of those, about 1,800 have to take time off duty. Even those figures illustrate the danger that police officers face. Sometimes police officers in the Metropolitan police area, as elsewhere, suffer the most horrific injuries, yet, despite those injuries, they return to active duty. 1138
 Mr. Straw : My hon. Friend is entirely right to say that, despite the success of the Metropolitan police, crime and the fear of crime remain very high in London and elsewhere. The simple explanation is that, as a result of
 1143
 Mr. Straw : My hon. Friend puts it better than I. I am grateful to my hon. Friends for anticipating large parts of my speech and for phrasing their remarks more elegantly than I ever could. My hon. Friend is exactly right. 1142
 Mr. Straw : I want to see the committee operating more openly. I stress that there is no suggestion from committee members or from the chairman, Sir John Quinton, that they would want to do it any other way. I am happy to pursue that suggestion further with my hon. Friend.
 Mr. Straw : I shall make some general remarks about resources for London later, but let me answer the right hon. Gentleman's specific questions. There has been continuing examination of the formula for London. When I announce the police grant in about a month, that formula may better reflect the needs of London policing than it did in the past. 1139
 Mr. Straw : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for all his compliments. I was wondering what was coming next, and I was not disappointed. Of course I shall take full account of the pressures on resources and the needs of No. 5 police area, along with Nos. 4, 3, 2 and 1 police areas. 1140
 Mr. Straw : I do indeed know that the Metropolitan police area stretches far into the suburban home counties, because I was brought up in Epping Forest within that area, even though that part of Epping Forest has always proudly remained part of Essex for all other purposes.
 The Secretary of State for the Home Department (Mr. Jack Straw) : It is a great honour for me to address the House for the first time on policing in London in my capacity as Home Secretary and as police authority for the Metropolitan police. I grew up in suburban Essex, just within the boundaries of the Metropolitan area, and have for years lived down the road in Lambeth, so I am very familiar with how London is policed. In my first few months as Home Secretary, I met the Commissioner on several occasions, accompanied police officers on patrol in Brixton on two occasions, addressed the annual open meeting of the Metropolitan Police Federation and launched the firearms amnesty in Lambeth.
 Mr. Straw : I support that idea. There are already powers for local authorities to introduce byelaws banning on-street drinking. They have been successfully introduced in Coventry and Liverpool. There have been no enforcement problems and the public order situation has been changed.
 Mr. Straw : Things can only get better.
 Mr. Straw : I am standing up not to receive the cards but merely to thank the right hon. Gentleman for making these points. I was concerned about this matter in opposition and it was raised with me by members of Westminster city council. I will certainly take up his suggestion and respond in due course.
 Mr. Straw : By one point.
 Mr. Straw : The spending plans we are following were laid down by the Government of which the right hon. Gentleman was a member. Is he proposing that we increase the overall spending totals he endorsed?
 Mr. Straw : I shall put the right hon. Gentleman right before he digs himself in deeper. The Crime and Disorder Bill implements a central recommendation by the Morgan committee on partnerships against crime—and that committee was established by the previous Administration. If old Labour has anything to say about the matter, its criticism might be that we are implementing a recommendation that was made to the Conservative Administration. The right hon. Gentleman is completely off beam. The purpose of putting the duty of crime partnerships into law is to impose obligations on local authorities that are not working effectively with police forces. There are a few such authorities and in some areas police divisions are not working effectively with local authorities. The legislation will not make much difference to the best, but it will make a huge difference to local authorities that are not performing well.
 Mr. Straw : We know the point.
 Mr. Straw : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for raising that point. The Commissioner has not personally raised that matter with me, but the hon. Gentleman raises a very important issue about improving the detection of crime. I shall certainly consider it. I shall write to him and place a copy of the letter in the House. 1146 "particularly to identify the lessons to be learned for the investigation and prosecution of racially motivated crimes." 1147
 Mr. Straw : Let me reassure the hon. Gentleman. I made it quite clear in my opening remarks that we intend to replicate, so far as possible, the tripartite arrangements that exist in the provinces for the government of police. The difference will be to take account of the Met's national and capital policing functions, which will involve continuing involvement by the Home Secretary. I should make it clear that we have no plans whatever to provide for the mayor or any police authority—including myself—to have operational control of the police. That is a matter for the chief officers of police.
 Mr. Greenway : The hon. Gentleman may be aware that I was a Metropolitan police officer in the 1960s. I joined the West End Central police station within days of the ink being dry on the Challenor report. I think that everyone deeply regrets that episode in the history of the Metropolitan police. One of the recommendations of the Challenor report was that officers should not be retained overlong in one police district.
 Mr. John Greenway  (Ryedale) : Eighteen years ago.
 Mr. John Greenway  (Ryedale) : I shall respond first to the comments of the hon. Member for Brent, North (Mr. Gardiner). Earlier, the Home Secretary reminded us of the origins of the Metropolitan police and, in particular, the 1829 days of Sir Robert Peel. Anyone who joins the police still has drummed into him by rote the same phrase that he used, and which I had to learn by rote in 1965—the primary object of an efficient police is the prevention of crime. After that come crime detection and the punishment of offenders. The hon. Member for Brent, North did the House a great service in reminding us of that. 1199 1200
 Mr. Greenway : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman will join us in the debate on net contributions that we are likely to have in the next few months—net contributions not only from London but from England to Scotland and Wales. We can all argue about what is fair, but my point is that, no matter how we divide the cake, there will always be winners and losers. London won year after year, but perhaps it has not done quite so well in the past year. 1201 1202
 Mr. McDonnell : Now that the hon. Gentleman has finally admitted that the previous Government reduced the overall proportion of resources coming to London, will he justify it, given that, in terms of taxation, London is a net contributor to the rest of the country to the tune of between £6 billion and £9 billion?
 Mr. McDonnell : No transfer fee was involved in this process, I am assured.
 Mr. John McDonnell  (Hayes and Harlington) : I want to report on some of the activities in my constituency to develop community partnerships to tackle crime. I want also to refer to a couple of cases that have previously been dealt with by the Metropolitan police but are currently of concern to me. 1183 1184 1185
 Mr. McDonnell rose
 Mr. McDonnell : I apologise to my hon. Friend for intervening so abruptly earlier. While on the subject of resources for the police, we should also consider the availability of resources for local authorities to install closed circuit television. As the hon. Member for Uxbridge (Mr. Randall) said, the issue for Hillingdon was that, having had an horrendous revenue support grant settlement from the previous Government, the council had to prioritise its investment in CCTV. That is an investment in the protection of life and limb, particularly of those families enduring racial attack and harassment. In that context, a council may want to put the onus for retail protection on the retailer. I am sure that my hon. Friend would agree that it is a matter of priorities, and socialism is the language of priorities.
 Mr. John McDonnell  (Hayes and Harlington) : In view of the cataclysmic dangers that we may now face as we
 1163
 Mr. McDonnell : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. John McDonnell  (Hayes and Harlington) : Will the Home Secretary contrast his proposal to offer the outer London districts representation on the authority with the current arrangements whereby, at best, outer London district representatives receive half an hour with the Home Secretary perhaps once a year?
 Mr. John Randall  (Uxbridge) : I intervene as very much a part-time retailer. In the London borough of
 1178
 Mr. Keith Darvill  (Upminster) : On behalf of my constituents, I endorse the remarks of other hon. Members. We all benefit from the commitment of police officers to serve our areas.
 Mr. Darvill : I thank my hon. Friend for his remarks. I was about to make that point. There is a problem not only with funding for the Metropolitan police but with particularly bad local authority resourcing through the standard spending assessment. Local authorities find it
 1179
 Mr. Darvill : I shall—
 Mr. Darvill : I am sorry, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Keith Hill  (Streatham) : Does my right hon. Friend accept my assurance that his repeated visits to Brixton, which I represent in part, are greatly appreciated by the local police, local voluntary agencies and the local public? Will he join me in applauding the success of the Lambeth guns amnesty that he launched two weeks ago? It has already yielded nine weapons and a considerable amount of ammunition.
 Mr. Michael Howard  (Folkestone and Hythe) (by private notice)
 Mr. Howard : I am grateful to the Minister for his reply. I assure him and the House that the Government will continue to have the Opposition's full support for the position that they have taken. 1160
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Order. This is an Adjournment debate in which time is limited. The hon. Gentleman ought to stop there.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Paul Boateng) : This has been a worthwhile debate and has involved more contributors than is normal for an Adjournment debate. It has been helpful that there has been unanimity across the Chamber between Liberal Democrat and Labour Members on an issue of obvious concern to constituency Members of Parliament and to my Department. Conspicuous by their absence are representatives of the Tory party, who must take the lion's share of blame for the situation that exists in south-west London. 1213 1214 1215 1216
 Mr. Paul Burstow  (Sutton and Cheam) : Does my hon. Friend share my concern that the 1.35 per cent. increase
 1209
 Mr. Peter Brooke  (Cities of London and Westminster) : It is a pleasure to follow the hon. Member for Vauxhall (Kate Hoey). Maps from as far back as the 18th century mark the boundary of Westminster with a dotted line down the middle of the Thames. It is as much a pleasure to face her across the House as it is to face her across the river. 1168 1169
 Mr. Brooke : I am perfectly content to accept the Minister's intervention. I was seeking to address the consequences of particular actions towards the homeless. 1171
 Mr. Peter Brooke  (Cities of London and Westminster) : Will the Minister accept at least my congratulations on the fact that the lessons we learned about dictators more than 60 years ago have not been forgotten by the Government in the way that they seem to have been mislaid by some of our allies?
 Mr. Ottaway : Is that it?
 Mr. Richard Ottaway  (Croydon, South) : The right hon. Gentleman will, of course, realise that the Metropolitan police district extends a long way beyond the proposed Greater London authority boundaries and includes Broxbourne, Elmbridge, Epping Forest, Epsom and Ewell, Hertsmere, Reigate, Banstead and Spelthorne. That is a considerable expansion of the area. As he is probably well aware, it is proposed that the new police committee will have a representative from those districts. Does he think, however, that that is a correct balance?
 1141
 Mr. Roger Casale  (Wimbledon) : I know Kingston hospital well. It is close to my constituency and my mother worked there for many years, playing a small part in contributing to the fine reputation it now enjoys. Many of my constituents use Kingston hospital and I am aware of the knock-on effect of potential further closures at Queen Mary's. Will the hon. Member applaud the fact that the Government have immediately given £12 million to Merton, Sutton and Wandsworth health authority—considerably more than could have been expected under the previous Government's projections? Is it not now the task of local Members of Parliament in that health authority area, which includes my constituency and—
 Mr. Roger Casale  (Wimbledon) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Kingston and Surbiton (Mr. Davey), whose constituency borders mine, on his sensible remarks about the importance of community and partnership policing. That is an area in which we can work together in the interests of our constituents. 1189 1190
 Mr. Simon Burns  (West Chelmsford) : May I press the Minister further on a point raised by my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard) in his original question, on the issue of resolution 687? Does the Minister agree that the resolution is enough in the current and unfolding circumstances?
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : May I thank the Minister for coming to the House and assure him that all that he has said this morning has the complete support of the Liberal Democrats? It is imperative that UNSCOM be allowed to continue its work because it has already regularly found stockpiles of the sort of hugely dangerous weapons of war and destruction that the hon. Gentleman mentioned. We know that the Iraqi Government have used chemical and biological weapons as part of their dictatorship apparatus and activity, and are therefore able to use them again. The UN needs to be supported and it is quite right that our forces and warships are put at its disposal so that it may be back in operation in Iraq, rooting out those weapons, at the earliest opportunity.
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : I am grateful for the Home Secretary's considered and comprehensive review of the issues in London. We all support the idea that the Met should have the powers that they need to do their job. I ask him to consider one further extension of powers, which they tell me that they do not have and which impedes them greatly.
 Mr. Pound : The officer moved to Hayes police station, rather than Hayes Town football club—despite Hayes Town's great success with Les Ferdinand and the 10 per cent. sell-on deal. 1196
 Mr. Pound : I remember Sergeant Challenor well and I remember the documentation of the time. The hon. Gentleman is more knowledgeable in that area than I am, but I recall that that recommendation about moving officers applied to the CID and to specific sections within the Metropolitan police service. It did not apply to the entire uniformed force. We are not faced with a response to Challenor and West End Central: the matter affects every serving police officer and I am worried about that. 1197
 Mr. Stephen Pound  (Ealing, North) : I shall first refer briefly to the comments of the shadow Home Secretary, who was kind enough to mention Ealing. He referred to Northolt primary school and Walford high school in connection with closed circuit television. He also spoke about the CCTV programme in Ealing town centre. Sadly, Ealing town centre is not in my constituency: it is on the perimeter and falls within the area so ably represented by my hon. Friend the Member for Ealing, Southall (Mr. Khabra). 1195 "to ensure an equal distribution of resources, skills and experience throughout the MPS; and … to provide an interesting and varied career for both existing and potential MPS officers".
 Mr. Tony McNulty  (Harrow, East) : I am surprised that my first point has not been raised in the debate before now. It would be remiss if, in this Parliament's first debate on policing in London, hon. Members did not at least note that the former parliamentary adviser to the Police Federation, Sir Michael Shersby, is no longer with us. We should pay at least passing tribute to his work. "That accountability is not, as several Opposition Members have suggested, merely a matter of a once-a-year debate. The Home Secretary and I answer more than 150 letters or questions from hon. Members about the Metropolitan police each year";—[ 0fficial Report 1191 "He may not be flavour of the month with the liberal elite, but that runs in his favour because it means that he is clearly in touch with the views and aspirations of ordinary people in this country."—[ Official Report "has proved to be the most effective Home Secretary that I can remember."—[ Official Report 1192 1193 1194
 Mr. Tony McNulty  (Harrow, East) : A fear of crime has emerged on the streets of Beckenham in the past week or so in terms of burglary and street crime. What assurances can my right hon. Friend give the people of Beckenham on that score?
 Ann Keen  (Brentford and Isleworth) : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for letting me speak in this important debate. The Metropolitan police services continue to strive to improve policing in London, and that is demonstrated very much by their community links within the London boroughs, which have already been referred to this morning. I commend the London borough of Hounslow on its home security scheme, in particular for 60-plus citizens. More than 2,000 homes have now benefited from home security systems and we have seen a difference. 1172
 Ms Hodge : The right hon. Gentleman said that the previous Government put their money where their mouth was. Will he explain—perhaps apologise, or at least justify—why, last year, budgetary pressures created by the Government of which he was a member led to a decrease in the number of police constables in London by 240 when the previous Prime Minister had promised 5,000 extra bobbies on the beat across the country?
 Ms Margaret Hodge  (Barking) : I thank my right hon. Friend for giving way and I am grateful for his remarks about transitional arrangements, which I hope will be an improvement. Will those transitional arrangements ensure more openness in the deliberations of the Metropolitan police committee so that there can be some accountability to Londoners regarding what is discussed and what advice the committee gives to the Home Secretary?
 Kate Hoey  (Vauxhall) : I pay tribute to my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary for his commitment to the policing of London and particularly to my borough of Lambeth. I know that it was mentioned earlier, but it is
 1158
 Kate Hoey : I was talking about the bright future of the Lambeth community police consultative committee and my confidence in the leadership of Michael Franklin.
 Kate Hoey : Of course it was entered into voluntarily. Indeed, it is the strength of many of these initiatives that people wanted them to happen. I know where the shadow Home Secretary is trying to lead me, but I do not think that it is relevant. 1166 Evening Standard 1167
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. I recommend that the hon. Member for Upminster (Mr. Darvill) deals with one intervention before he runs into another.
 Sir Sydney Chapman  (Chipping Barnet) : I am glad to be called in this annual debate on the policing of London. I am particularly pleased to follow the hon. Member for Upminster (Mr. Darvill), and to congratulate him on his thoughtful contribution, although I do not exactly agree with him and with his interpretation of certain statistics.
 Sir Sydney Chapman  (Chipping Barnet) : In commending my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard) for tabling the private notice question, and the Minister for his answer, may I ask the hon. Gentleman to agree that Saddam Hussein is an evil man who is a threat to the peace and stability of the middle east region and a potential threat to the peace and stability of the world? Does he agree that, as long as Saddam Hussein has the capability of manufacturing nuclear, biological or chemical weapons, he will remain a threat? Moreover, does he agree that the only reason that economic sanctions have been imposed on Iraq is that Saddam Hussein has not taken the measures necessary for them to be withdrawn, to bring succour and help to the Iraqi people?
 Sir Sydney Chapman  (Chipping Barnet) : We all utterly share the sentiments expressed by the Home Secretary. Does he agree that the whole problem of police trying to protect our security is dramatically illustrated in the annual report that he has before him, which shows that last year 12,000 officers were injured while on duty? That means that a Metropolitan police officer is likely to be injured once every three years. Does not that illustrate the danger to which we subject our police in trying to protect our capital?
 Sir Sydney Chapman : I am sorry–18 years ago. The Minister may he able to give us the figures, but, compared with 18 years ago, there are more bobbies on the beat. In other words, more civilians have been brought in to do the work previously done by policemen which it was unnecessary for them to do. That was a commendable performance by the last Conservative Government. 1180 "changes in police recording procedures". 1181
 Sir Sydney Chapman : I cannot because I was not a member of the Government and I do not know the exact detail. I do not even know what the Minister means by putting it in the budget lines, but is he saying that a manifesto commitment should be disregarded if it has not been put "in the lines"? I am sure that he is not saying that. As the previous Government did provide £37 million for CCTV, it is not unreasonable to say that they would have met their commitment to provide £75 million over four to five years.
 Sir Sydney Chapman : Sorry.
 Sir Sydney Chapman : When Ministers in this new Government fail to respond positively to an intervention, they usually say, "I wonder how the hon. Gentleman has the brass cheek to say that because his Government, when they were in power," and so on. I am inclined to say the opposite or to give it back to the Minister. I know that he is a relatively new Member, but if he compares the condition, the numbers and the funding of the Metropolitan police in 1979 with the position in 1997, he will find that the last Conservative Government hugely increased the commitment to the police. 1182
 Mr. Michael Jabez Foster : Will my hon. Friend accept that much of the evidence on which he relies was produced before the election of the Labour Government? Several of my constituents have written to me saying that they understood that they had no hope with the other lot, but that they hoped that fresh consideration would be given to this matter. Much of the evidence put to me and to my hon. Friends is new evidence, and I ask that it be reconsidered.
 Several hon. Members rose—
 Several hon. Members rose—
 Several hon. Members rose—
 Hon. Members : You?
 Several hon. Members   rose—
 Dr. Alan Whitehead  (Southampton, Test) : Could the hon. Gentleman possibly remind us who signed the Single European Act and what consequences it had for the British economy? Were there any provisions in it for the regulation of employment in Europe?
 Dr. Whitehead   rose—
 Dr. Reid : Yes, we have made absolutely plain our concern about the potential existence and use of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq under the control of Saddam Hussein. That is why we have made it clear throughout this period that although we have of course sought, and will continue to seek, a diplomatic solution, we will not rule out the use of force. As the hon. Gentleman will know, HMS Invincible remains in the Mediterranean, ready to respond at short notice, giving the UK flexibility in the near future should Saddam's promise of co-operation with UNSCOM prove illusory.
 Dr. Reid : UK forces currently deployed in the Gulf consist of HMS Coventry, supported by Royal Fleet Auxiliary Bayleaf, as part of the Armilla patrol. Shore-based forces in the Gulf area comprise six RAF Tornado aircraft operating from Saudi Arabia, supported by two RAF VC10 tankers in Bahrain, which contribute to the enforcement of the no-fly zone over southern Iraq. A UK battalion is currently exercising in Kuwait as part of a routine training programme.
 Dr. Reid : I have the utmost respect for the esprit de corps, the ethos and the almost concrete capacity of the regimental system to instil the will to fight in men—and, I hope, women—in the most difficult circumstances. As for the second part of my hon. Friend's question, we have made it clear that we want the best and the brightest in the British armed forces. We want the widest possible pool of recruits and we want the pathways to progress in the armed forces to be open to all, irrespective of sex, ethnic background or social class. We shall maintain that commitment.
 Dr. Reid : As far as Defence Ministers are concerned, none. I hope that the hon. Gentleman recognises, when he makes such imputations, that although he may be attempting to slur the Government Front Bench, he is also—wrongly—bringing into question the integrity of those in the Army chain of command, who would never allow such a thing. As for the hon. Gentleman's reference to the Lord Chancellor, I have no intention of commenting on internal advice or correspondence between Ministers, which I have already withheld under exemption 2 of the code of practice on access to information. The hon. Gentleman should know that that is always the position taken on such matters.
 Dr. Reid : Our aim is that the armed forces should fully embrace diversity and better reflect the ethnic composition of the society they defend. I am glad that all three services are tackling the issue with considerable energy, and that a number of local initiatives are in place. Complementing those are the tri-service initiatives in Newham and Sandwell and the Army's specific ethnic minorities recruitment campaign.
 Dr. Reid : I agree with my hon. Friend. She will know that we are determined to ensure that access to our armed forces is open to the widest possible reservoir of talent. She may be aware of our initiatives in Newham and Sandwell. She will also be aware that the Ministry of Defence is 19 months into a five-year action plan with the Commission for Racial Equality. I welcome the recent initiative of the Chief of the General Staff, who introduced a series of measures to combat racism in the Army whenever it raises its head. I am glad to announce that the Army and the Royal Air Force are today introducing a confidential support hotline for counselling and advice on such matters. It will operate outside the chain of command and has the support of the chiefs of the services and the chain of command.
 Dr. Reid : I am not sure whether the hon. and learned Gentleman was here when I praised the chain of command and the chiefs of staff for the proactive, dynamic and absolutely committed way in which they have approached racism and bullying in the armed forces. I have no hesitation in saying that this is not being pushed as a political imperative on the chiefs of staff; it is a measure to which they are individually and collectively committed. I congratulate them on that. It is also a matter for congratulation that they have introduced, for the purposes of counselling, an independent hotline, which will serve as another building block to combat racism in the armed forces.
 Dr. Reid : Women already make a substantial contribution to the armed forces and serve alongside their male colleagues in many roles. My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State announced in a defence debate on 27 October that, from April next year, the proportion of posts open to women in the Army will rise from 47 to 70 per cent. We have also commissioned a review that will enable us to decide whether any of the remaining restrictions on employment opportunities for women in all three services can be reduced or removed.
 Dr. Reid : It is a pleasure. The Government, as my hon. Friend would expect, and the armed forces are committed to expanding career opportunities for women. My hon. Friend may be interested to know that service women now represent 7 per cent. of total strength and that in the 12 months to 1 September 1997 14 per cent. of new recruits were women. As I said earlier, my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State announced on 27 October that from 1 April next year the proportion of posts in the Army open to women will increase to 70 per cent.
 Dr. Reid : I thank my hon. Friend for that observation. I am sure that the whole House will join me in paying tribute not only to the generality of the TA, but, in particular, to the Royal Monmouthshire Royal Engineers. We particularly recall those who have done and continue to do such sterling work in areas such as Bosnia. We are truly fortunate to be able to call upon such dedicated, professional and highly motivated individuals who make up the voluntary Reserves. We are intent on ensuring that their use is as flexible as possible. Indeed,
 3
 Dr. Reid : Our strategic lift requirements, in terms both of air lift and of sea lift, are being scrutinised closely in the strategic defence review, which aims to ensure that our armed forces are properly equipped to undertake their tasks. That scrutiny is, of course, informed by my Department's assessment of the adequacy of our currently available assets.
 Dr. Reid : The hon. Gentleman, who is well known for his interest and expertise in these matters, is absolutely right about the nature of the threats we now face. The old simplicities and certainties of the cold war have gone. We live in a more volatile, less predictable world and our ability to react quickly is paramount. It is also important that we have a variety of equipment, which the RAF cannot, at present, move by air. My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State has been at pains to make that point. Several options merit consideration, including, perhaps, the future large aircraft and C17.
 Dr. Reid : That is absolutely correct. I am pleased to say that, today, I presented a charter mark award to the RAF museum, which has played such an important role in maintaining and exhibiting our RAF heritage. I am also pleased to tell the House that, Treasury and Parliament permitting, as of today the RAF intends to pass the ownership of the vast majority—121 out of 122—of its historic aeroplanes to the RAF museum, thus showing our confidence in it and our commitment, as we approach the millennium, to retaining the heritage of past generations of the RAF for future generations.
 Dr. Reid : The strategic defence review's examination of the future structure of the Army is taking full account of the recognised strengths of the regimental system. It would, however, be premature for me to speculate on any particular aspect of the review's outcome.
 Dr. Reid : I whole-heartedly agree with the hon. Gentleman on both statements.
 The Minister for the Armed Forces (Dr. John Reid) : Territorial Army units take part in a minimum of six days collective training each year and two of those are spent on a unit or formation-level exercise. The future training requirement for TA units will depend on the outcome of strategic defence review work into the future size and shape of the Regular and Reserve forces.
 Dr. Reid : In response to the first part of the hon. Gentleman's question, we recognise the importance of collective training for individuals. The TA units took part in four formation-level exercises this year, compared with two last year, and four are planned for next year. We shall obviously bear that in mind during the strategic defence review considerations.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : I welcome that robust response from the Secretary of State. Is he aware that, throughout the 1980s and early 1990s, when anxiety about nuclear deterrence was at its height, the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament consistently produced strangely worded poll questions to get results such as that which has just been cited, but that whenever the British public were asked: "Do you think that Britain should continue to possess nuclear weapons as long as other countries have them?" poll after poll showed two thirds of British people in favour of retention and never more than a quarter against it?
5.  Mr. Godman : What recent representations he has received anent the future of the royal yacht Britannia. [16798]
 Mr. Godman : I am pleased that my right hon. Friend has decided to ignore the suggestion, or request, from Buckingham palace that the vessel be scuttled or scrapped. Does he agree that neither London nor Leith has a legitimate claim on her and that, in all fairness, she should go to the Clyde, to be berthed at the Govan dry dock close to the proposed science park? The ship should not finish up at the bottom of the Atlantic; she should be returned to the Clyde, where she was built.
 Dr. Phyllis Starkey  (Milton Keynes, South-West) : Will the hon. Gentleman admit that many of our European partners have had what we have not had until now, namely a comprehensive child care strategy? Most women on the continent take for granted standards of child care provision that women in this country have long awaited and which we are now looking to a Labour Government to deliver.
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin (North Essex) : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker.
 Mr. Jenkin : Do you agree, Madam Speaker, that, if a matter is of sufficient importance that it requires a Minister to rush out a statement clarifying why there has been a change of Government policy, that statement should be read out in the House by the Minister? Therefore, should not either the Paymaster General or the Chancellor of the Exchequer come to the House to clarify Government policy?
 Miss Anne Begg  (Aberdeen, South) : The hon. Gentleman talked about the fear and alarm felt by the disabled community, but it is Conservative Members who are fuelling the press reports. They do not know what is in the review—none of us on the Back Benches knows—but by emphasising cuts and taxation that may or may not be part of the review, the hon. Gentleman and his fellow Back Benchers are making the situation worse.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The Government have collective responsibility. The Minister of State is present on the Front Bench waiting to respond.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Is the Minister giving way?
 Madam Speaker : That being the case, the hon. Member for South Dorset (Mr. Bruce) should resume his seat.
 Madam Speaker : It is possible for any hon. Member to do that. The Member who has the Floor has discretion as to whether to give way. The Minister seems to be in full flow, and he is not going to give way.
 Madam Speaker : The hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Bercow) spoke for 20 minutes. I have it here. I also know how many points of order the hon. Member for South Dorset (Mr. Bruce) has raised—too many.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Will hon. Members please move away from the Bar as there is an hon. Member who wishes to speak.
 Madam Speaker : No, I can deal with this, thank you very much, Mr. Skinner.
 Madam Speaker : Yes, I will hear a further point of order. I want to deal with this matter.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The hon. Lady is trying to extend Question Time. She asked how many lawyers are employed by the National Audit Office. I cannot extend Question Time.
 Madam Speaker : All right. It is fair enough to hear one from the Government Benches.
 Madam Speaker : I assure the hon. Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner) that he is not likely to get the brush-off from me.
 Madam Speaker : I should inform the House that I have selected the amendment in the name of the Prime Minister.
 Madam Speaker : Order. I have not yet finished. The question was whether the Secretary of State for Wales had asked to make a statement. The answer is no, I have not been informed that he is seeking to do so. The hon. Gentleman raised a lengthy point of order—I hope that those on the Government Front Bench have taken note of it and that the House has noted that Welsh questions are on Wednesday.
 Madam Speaker : As the hon. Gentleman knows, I am not responsible for the rota of when Ministers answer questions. That is determined through the usual channels. It is for the individual Member to determine which Minister is responsible for answering the question that is tabled. If there are any problems, I know that the Clerks in the Table Office will provide guidelines and as much help as possible.
 Madam Speaker : I remind the hon. Gentleman, and all those who might want to touch on this subject, that there was ample time before 12 o'clock today to make an application under Standing Order No. 24. I have made my views known on the matter. I want no further points of order on the issue; I have dealt with it as far as it is my responsibility to do so.
 Madam Speaker : Order. That question does not have much to do with recruitment.
 Madam Speaker : Not in my judgment.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman is now getting into a policy argument. I let him continue because I wanted to check when Welsh questions were—they happen to be on Wednesday.
 Ms Diane Abbott  (Hackney, North and Stoke Newington) : I associate myself with the remarks of my hon. Friend the Member for Hackney, South and Shoreditch (Mr. Sedgemore) and especially with his closing remark that for too long people have played politics with Hackney schoolchildren. However, the main thing that I want to do in the few minutes available to me is to emphasise the amount of positive work going on in Hackney schools and the fact that very many teachers and very many children are still achieving, still doing their best in difficult circumstances. The Evening Standard 134
 Miss Julie Kirkbride  (Bromsgrove) : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 The President of the Board of Trade and Secretary of State for Trade and Industry (Mrs. Margaret Beckett) : I beg to move, To leave out from "House" to the end of the Question, and to add instead thereof:
 'welcomes the speedy action taken by Her Majesty's Government to foster an environment in which business can flourish, with macro-economic stability, low rates of corporation tax, a clear new competition policy, and a review of utility regulation; contrasts this with the boom and bust policies of the previous administration which led to the collapse of thousands of firms and unemployment for millions; and welcomes Her Majesty's Government's partnership with business to improve UK competitiveness. 94
 Mrs. Beckett : Does the hon. Gentleman wish to repudiate that policy?
 Mrs. Beckett : No. We have made it clear from the beginning that the minimum wage will apply across British business, and that remains the case. I see that the hon. Gentleman has adopted from the right hon. Member for Wokingham the policy of asking questions to which the answers are already plain.
 Mrs. Beckett : I shall come back to the subject, so I hope that the hon. Gentleman will forgive me if I make some progress. 95
 Mrs. Beckett : I thank my hon. Friend for that helpful sedentary intervention.
 Mrs. Beckett : I shall come to the issue of energy policy in a few moments. If the right hon. Gentleman feels then that I have not answered his question adequately, he may return to it. I do not disagree with absolutely
 96
 Mrs. Beckett : That is not rubbish and I have heard many Conservative Members regret the former Prime Minister's statement, including one whom I will not name but he knows who he is. Under the right hon. Member for Henley (Mr. Heseltine), we were supposed to get intervention before breakfast, tea and dinner. Under my predecessor, we never knew what to expect and we do not know now. Such a clear policy was not apparently in the Conservative manifesto, because the right hon. Member for Wokingham says that it was not much good. We can agree on that. A clear policy apparently does not involve more competitive markets—the right hon. Gentleman opposes change—and it certainly does not involve the United Kingdom being at the heart of Europe.
 Mrs. Beckett : That has nothing to do with Action 2000. It is an interesting point and the hon. Gentleman will no doubt pursue it in Committee, but it has no relevance to the point that I was making. 97 98 The Daily Telegraph "competition she said, and competition she meant".
 Mrs. Beckett : My hon. Friend the Minister of State tells me that he was not asked that, but in any case I can assure the hon. Gentleman that we shall be happy to discuss those issues with him at length when our proposals for the Post Office are published. 99 [Interruption.]
 Mrs. Beckett : That does not arise from the foresight action programme. The Government have not yet made any announcement on proposals from the aerospace industry.
 Mrs. Beckett : I have not had a chance to study the precise figure cited by the right hon. Gentleman, but if it were true it would be the first time ever. I have had long experience of shadowing the Treasury team: previous figures promulgated by the Conservative party were never accurate and I see no reason to suppose that they ever will be.
 Mr. Alan Howarth : What evidence does the hon. Lady have?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. Alan Howarth) : This has been a valuable debate, albeit all too short. I especially welcome the contributions from my hon. Friends the Members for North Swindon (Mr. Wills), for Don Valley (Caroline Flint), for Redditch (Jacqui Smith) and for Rugby and Kenilworth (Mr. King). The commitment of my hon. Friends to social justice and to an intelligent and humane modernisation of the welfare state contrasts with the absence of commitment to that project and the absence of ideas that have been apparent on the Conservative Benches.
 Mr. Howarth : The hon. Gentleman has only just come into the Chamber. I will not give way to him. 74 75
 Mr. Howarth : The hon. Lady and too many other Conservative Members have been guilty of recycling and putting into more emphatic currency a series of rumours that they know are distressing to disabled people. I do not for one second doubt the strong personal commitment to disabled people's interests of the hon. Member for Tiverton and Honiton (Mrs. Browning). She and I have, from time to time, fought shoulder to shoulder in certain causes on behalf of disabled people. 76
 Mr. Howarth : I have very little time. I am not prepared to have my speech hijacked by Conservative Members who want me to dance to their tune by answering a series of questions that they want to ask for political advantage. I will not play that game.
 Mr. Alan Howarth : Or anyone else.
 Mr. Alan Howarth : Does the hon. Gentleman recall that when his Government introduced incapacity benefit in place of invalidity benefit they introduced tax on that key benefit for disabled people?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. Alan Howarth) indicated dissent.
 Mr. Andy King : The hon. Lady is scaremongering.
 Mr. King : I do apologise, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for not addressing you directly. I was of course referring to Conservative Members. I shall try not to fall into that trap again. 68
 Mr. Andy King  (Rugby and Kenilworth) : I have never heard so much rubbish in all my life as I have listened to for the past three hours from those hypocrites opposite me—
 Mr. King : I do apologise, Mr. Deputy Speaker, if I fell asleep while Opposition Members were speaking. They certainly tried the patience of all of us this afternoon, but I tried to stay awake, and yes I do agree with my hon. Friend on this side, thank you very much.  [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
 Mr. King : No; I am sorry. We are running out of time. 69
 Mr. King : I hope, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that that is not unparliamentary language. Indeed, I am only quoting a previous Conservative Prime Minister, who referred to you as "organised hypocrisy". That is what we have witnessed this afternoon again. It is what we witnessed time and again when you were in power during the past 18 years. You did nothing for disabled people or for lone parents; you certainly did nothing for pensioners. Over the past six months, however, the nation has been asked to believe in a Damascene conversion of your party: you are now the friends of the pensioner and of the lone parent—
 Mr. Lansley : In the light of the hon. Gentleman's remarks, how does he explain the Government's own
 114
 Mr. Lansley : The hon. Gentleman seems to be suggesting a large-scale energy tax. How would such an energy tax be implemented without undermining the competitiveness of many industries for which energy is an important input cost?
 Mr. Lansley : I understand the hon. Gentleman to be suggesting that there should be a large-scale energy tax— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Andrew Lansley  (South Cambridgeshire) : The hon. Gentleman asks a question and I may be able to provide an answer. I was at the Association of British Chambers of Commerce at the time and I well recall that, in 1988, the then Secretary of State for Employment conducted a consultation on statutory interest on late payments. Industry, for which I spoke, said that it did not want it, just as industry is now saying that it is the wrong way to proceed.
 Mr. Andrew Miller  (Ellesmere Port and Neston) : While the right hon. Gentleman is referring to manifestos, I ask him to cast his mind back to his own manifesto when he ran for the Tory party leadership. The words "trade and industry" did not appear in his manifesto. Why should we take him seriously tonight?
 Mr. Miller : Like the exchange rate mechanism.
 Mr. Miller : While we are on monetary union, was it the right hon. Gentleman who said in 1995 that monetary union would "break Europe asunder"? Is that still his view, and is it the united view of the Conservative party?
 Mr. Robathan : I welcome the Minister's statement because I know that he is personally committed to the
 12
11.  Mr. Robathan : What assessment he has made of the importance of the regimental system. [16805]
 Mr. William Cash  (Stone) : Will the Minister give way?
34.  Mr. Bill O'Brien : What assessment the Church Commissioners have made of the impact of pension provisions on the number of people applying for a career in the Church since Parliament approved the current pension provisions. [16831]
 Mr. O'Brien : Does my right hon. Friend accept that it is time that the Church Commissioners took far more
 17
 Mr. Sedgemore : I should like to begin this debate by congratulating children and teachers in Hackney on their sustained and steady improvement in achievement in the 1990s. Whereas in 1990 only 14 per cent. of pupils obtained more than five GCSE grades A to C, in 1996 that figure had risen to 31 percent. This year, the improvement in the grades was one of the best in the country. Better still,  The Observer "The world is made up for the most part of fools and knaves." 131 "the toxic waste of American management theory circa 1975" "reads like a menu for a Harvester restaurant" "the never failing vice of fools". "Hackney is always in the said. It's just a question of how deep it is'. 132 "Lorraine's approach to the media is that you can't polish a turd."
 Mr. Brian Sedgemore  (Hackney, South and Shoreditch)   rose—
 Mr. Gill : I am pleased to answer the right hon. Lady on that very point. The Labour party made much of the fact that it reduced the level of VAT on fuel. Labour Members could not have done that without the support of my hon. Friends the Members for Billericay (Mrs. Gorman) and for Aldridge-Brownhills (Mr. Shepherd). It was the votes of Conservative Members that helped Labour to reduce VAT. No credit is due to the Labour party there.
 Mr. Christopher Gill  (Ludlow) : Will the right hon. Lady give way?
3.  Mr. Gill : If Her Majesty's Government will repay to former prisoners of war the amount deducted from their pay on which they had paid taxes and which was not refunded to the German and Italian Governments in a post-war settlement. [16796]
 Mr. Gill : The Minister will be aware that this matter was discussed in the House earlier in the year, when there was support for the plight of ex-officer prisoners of war on both sides of the House. They will be disappointed in the answer that he has just given to my question. One of those who will be disappointed will be my constituent, Squadron Leader B. A. James MC, who, along with thousands of other people in the same circumstances, feels that he has been ignored and treated very badly. This question has rumbled on since 1980 and it is disappointing to hear the Minister say that he is not prepared to review the matter. Those involved would like there to be an independent inquiry at which prisoners of war could express their evidence in a way that they have previously been unable to do.
 Mr. Dale Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : My right hon. Friend will be aware that the housing benefit system works in such a way as to lock people into unemployment. Why do we not take a far more imaginative approach and directly interfere in the free market for rents, thereby reducing housing benefit and saving hundreds of millions of pounds—far more than anything we could gain by the measures that she is considering?
 Mr Campbell-Savours : My right hon. Friend has missed my point. High rents mean high housing benefit and they exist in a free market for rents, which affects millions of people. Why do we not interfere there, thereby slashing the benefit bill in a major way, instead of concentrating our efforts on lone parents?
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : Who is Buckingham?
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : You have just made a ruling, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and to the extent that the right hon. Member for Wokingham (Mr. Redwood) was able to make a statement, I think that I might be able to intervene and ask a question. A Mr. David Steene gave £20,000 to the leadership campaign of the Leader of the Opposition. Mr. David Steene was the managing director of a company called J and J Securities, which is a subsidiary of the City Mortgage Corporation, which—
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. With respect, it is rather curious that I should be blocked for raising a matter that is relevant to competition policy and loan interest on mortgages charged by a London shark who gives to the Tory party, while the right hon. Gentleman is allowed to continue talking about something that has absolutely nothing to do with the debate in any way, shape or form. It seems to me that I am in order and he is out of order, yet—
 Mr. Dale Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : What about the right hon. Gentleman's wife?
 Mr. Campbell-Savours   rose—
 Mr. Damian Green  (Ashford) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Has the Chancellor of the Exchequer given you any indication that he wants to make a statement on the tax-avoidance schemes of the Paymaster General, especially since the Chancellor appears to have changed Government policy on the issue without informing the House? At last year's Labour party conference, the Chancellor said:
 "A Labour Chancellor will not permit tax relief to millionaires in offshore tax havens."
 The Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. David Blunkett) : This is unbelievable.
 Mr. Borrow : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that many businesses foresee a return to a closer relationship and partnership with local government, but would welcome a link between a local business rate and the council tax, so that any increase for council tax payers is matched by the increase for business rate payers rather than divorcing one from the other, as that would risk local government increasing the council tax by a different percentage from that applied to the business rate? Or is he saying that a central, nationalised business rate should remain?
 Mr. Borrow : Does my hon. Friend agree that, had the previous Tory Government not neglected the quinquennial revaluation of business properties, the disparity between different regions of the United Kingdom would not have grown to the extent that, in 1990, many of the points raised about high business rates became true? It was the Conservative Government's failure to address the problem through revaluation and the fact that comments made by the right hon. Member for Henley (Mr. Heseltine) stopped the revaluation in 1979 that created many of the problems.
 Mr. Borrow : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. David Borrow  (South Ribble) : Is the hon. Gentleman aware that, at its most recent conference, the Federation of Small Businesses voted in favour of a sensibly negotiated minimum wage? Is the hon. Gentleman also aware, as I am from speaking to small businesses, that many would welcome a minimum wage because that would stop their being undercut by rogue firms that seek to pay poverty wages? Those small firms want to employ well-trained work forces and pay them a decent wage.
 Mr. David Chidgey  (Eastleigh) : I came to the debate with feelings of curiosity and disbelief. I was curious because Conservative Members did not take the opportunity to apologise to the House for the damage that their policies caused to business and jobs when they were in office; and I experienced a sense of disbelief when I saw that they had failed to recognise the verdict of the voters who, having suffered the consequences of their policies, threw them out of office and inflicted the heaviest defeat on the Conservative party since 1906. What does it take before they get the message? What we heard instead was 45 minutes of auto-rant, which is hardly entertaining and certainly not interesting. 110 Sunday Times "Mea culpa, we did not get it right in all areas". "We did not listen but perhaps we did not always receive the right message". "There will be little policy coming from the Conservative Party in these initial stages, as is understandable, because we got it wrong."
 Mr. Chidgey : Yes, I have got the message. I had always thought the hon. Lady was a Eurosceptic, yet now she seems to welcome the benefits of our membership of the EU. She might care to ponder why United Kingdom finance is never seen to be invested in this country—it is always being invested elsewhere.
 Mr. Chidgey : I think the hon. Gentleman has already entertained the House enough for one night with a lengthy speech and several interventions. I am sure that other hon. Members would welcome the chance to make short speeches in the little time that is left. 111
 Mr. Chidgey : There is so much coughing from the Front Bench that I cannot hear.
 Mr. Chidgey : I take the point. I have tried not to go into too much detail because I appreciate that time is short. We believe that tax should be switched from the good things—employment—to the things that consume our finite energy resources. The latter form of tax is commonly called the carbon tax. The whole thrust of that taxation policy is that it is a neutral tax. When national insurance contributions are cut, taxation is switched from employment to the use of finite energy resources.  [Interruption.] 112
 Mr. David Hanson  (Delyn) : I note that the right hon. Gentleman mentioned the tax policy in the Labour party manifesto. Does he agree with the Labour party's proposed cut in corporation tax? Will he vote against it?
 Mr. Hanson : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Can you tell the House what the shareholding of Lord Simon has to do with burdens on business?
 Mr. David Prior  (North Norfolk) : Would my right hon. Friend be surprised to know that one of the largest users of electricity in this country cites one of the reasons for increases in the market price of electricity as being that generators are treating the windfall tax as a business cost and recovering it through their prices?
 Mr. Rendel : I can understand how providing people with the opportunity to work may raise their status, but will the hon. Gentleman explain how benefit cuts can do so?
 Mr. David Rendel  (Newbury) : I am grateful for the chance to participate in this debate, because it is clear that three different points of view on welfare and, in particular, the cuts in lone parent benefits are held in the House. One view is held by the Conservative party, another by the Government and a third by the Liberal Democrats and, I understand, rather more than half of the Government's Back Benchers. It is important that that third view should be heard and I look forward to stating it. 53
 Mr. Rendel : I am sorry to say that that gets us no further. I asked the hon. Gentleman in what sense reducing benefits for lone parents increases their status. He talked about all sorts of other priorities with which I may agree, or not, but they are irrelevant to the question. Does he think that that enhances the status of lone parents or not? Is he prepared to intervene again? I am happy to give way if he wants to answer.
 Mr. Rendel : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. It is clear from that waffle that the hon. Gentleman does not have an answer to my question. It is also clear to every hon. Member that reducing benefits for lone parents will reduce their status. Perhaps 250,000 lone parents will not get the lone parent premiums next year. These will be the new claimants and their status will undoubtedly be reduced in exactly the same way as happened the previous Conservative Government. I hope that Labour will take that fact on board. 54
 Mr. Rendel : I am not justifying demands for more expenditure. The whole point is that, at present, the benefit cuts have not been made—they are in the Budget. There have been huge savings in benefit payments this year because of the unexpected fall in unemployment. The money is there if we want to spend it in that way. 55 56
 Mr. Rendel : I was not about to cite those statistics, but I am delighted that the hon. Gentleman has. "Lone Parent Premium recognises that lone parents face additional costs in bringing up their children-they do not have a partner's time or income to help with children". 57 "The way to get lone mothers out of poverty and cut spending on benefits for them is not by cutting the amount on which they have to live year by year and plunging them into further poverty." "hundreds of thousands of the poorest children worse off."—[ Official Report "Since one parent benefit is not taxed, it helped to bridge the gap between welfare and work. Its abolition will make working lone mothers worse off and will discourage work amongst this group".
 Mr. Rendel : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for that intervention. I am sure that he agrees that, quite apart from the two people we have mentioned, many others on the Government Front Bench and Labour Back Benches have made similar statements in the past. 58
 Mr Rendel : The right hon. Lady said that she was hoping to focus benefits on those who were not able to get work. In what sense is the cut in lone-parent benefit focusing benefits on lone parents who cannot get work?
 Mr. David Rendel  (Newbury) : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for giving way before leaving the subject. Is the problem not merely the number of people the Government have to find to take on child care, but the serious nature of the business of child care, which is not a matter for any frivolity? Carers must be of high quality and properly trained, and that will take a long time.
 Mr. Rendel : I understand that the Government accept that money was deducted from prisoners of war and should therefore have been paid back after the war; but that, now that they have lost all their records, it is impossible to go over the case once again and decide who should be paid and how much. Can we have an assurance from the Government that, at least, individuals who have kept their own records and can prove how much they lost will be paid back?
 Mr. David Ruffley  (Bury St. Edmunds) : I had not stood up, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Ruffley : I wish that such erudition on the subject of local government finance was shown by Government
 117
 Mr. Ruffley : I thank my hon. Friend for that valuable and important contribution.
 Mr. David Ruffley  (Bury St. Edmunds) : The motion refers to action and inaction on the part of Ministers. My hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Mr. Bercow) gave a distinguished explanation of the Government's damaging actions on wider union powers, a statutory minimum wage and the social chapter. I should like to draw attention to the inaction of Ministers on the important subject of business rates. "we will make no change to the present system…without full consultation with business." 116 "consulting with business fully about returning the business rate to local control."
 Mr. Ruffley : As I am bringing my remarks to an end, I shall not give way.
 Mr. Ruffley : The Government have singularly failed to live up to their manifesto pledges since 1 May.
 Mr. MacShane : Get on with it.
 Mr. MacShane : Answer the question.
 Mr. Denis MacShane  (Rotherham) : What rows?
 Mr. MacShane : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman. He was the author of a notorious pamphlet in 1993, which struck a chill into the heart of every pensioner in the country, for the No Turning Back group, that ultra-rightwing, reactionary Thatcherite group. [HON. MEMBERS: "He is reading."] I am reading because I am quoting. In that pamphlet, the hon. Gentleman proposed that people be allowed to opt out of their basic state pension. Is that still his policy—yes or no?
 Mr. Skinner : I remember that, in years gone by, when the Tories were in power, I used to try might and main to find out just what had happened to the £65 million concerning the then Deputy Prime Minister, the right hon. Member for Henley (Mr. Heseltine)—where he had got it, where he had put it, who was in charge of it. I got the brush-off from the Speaker at the time.
 Mr. Skinner : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker.
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) rose—
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) rose—
 Mr. Skinner : Is my right hon. Friend aware that, in a perfect world, the idea of getting everyone a job is sound? However, it is an imperfect world and it will always remain so, whether the Conservative or Labour party is in power. Welfare to work is a wonderful-sounding notion, yet in large parts of Britain, including my constituency, many people would like to get into work but cannot, and that will apply to lone parents as well.
 Mr. Gorrie : The hon. Lady has raised the tone of the debate considerably during the last minute or two. Does she agree that the Opposition made a mistake in framing their motion by criticising the Government for reneging on their policies? Surely the thrust of the Opposition's argument should be that, from their point of view, the Labour Government are adopting Tory policies. If the Opposition had adopted the advice of the Bible and taken joy in a sinner that repenteth, they might have attracted more interest in the debate among Conservative Back Benchers.
 Mr. Donald Gorrie  (Edinburgh, West) : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Frank Doran  (Aberdeen, Central) : Is the hon. Gentleman aware that yesterday Stan Mendham of the Federation of Small Businesses said that the FSB now accepted the principle of the minimum wage and was anxious to work with the Government? He has not mentioned that.
 The Minister for Welfare Reform (Mr. Frank Field)   indicated assent.
 Mr. Robertson : I should point out that the competition to my hon. Friend in Dundee, East came not from the Tory party but from the Scottish National party, which was in favour of abolishing Trident—and that my hon. Friend won and the SNP lost. Does not that suggest that people are in favour of Trident? Whatever is the preponderance of letters in the postbag or the outcome of occasional opinion polls, people believed what we said in our manifesto and they have every right to believe that we will conduct ourselves differently from the previous Government.
 Mr. Robertson : I am not concerned with the ups and downs of individual opinion polls. After many years of
 15
 Mr. George Robertson : We have received more than 150 letters and submissions about our nuclear deterrent since inviting public contributions to the strategic defence review. The majority have called for Trident to be included in the review. We have already made it clear that the review will examine all aspects of our deterrent postures to ensure that it meets changing strategic circumstances.
 Mr. George Robertson : My Department has received a large number of approaches about Britannia's future. Seven substantive preservation proposals are being examined in detail. I should prefer the yacht to be preserved, providing that the use is fitting and that there can be adequate arrangements to ensure that her fine appearance can be maintained. I hope to be able to make an announcement shortly.
 Mr. Robertson : Buckingham palace has been kept closely informed of the options for the ship's future, and has made it clear that the decision should and will be taken by the Government. Britannia is regarded by most people as a national treasure. She has given 44 years of distinguished service to the Queen and the country. My preferred option is that the yacht should be preserved, but its use must be fitting and there must be adequate arrangements to maintain its appearance. All seven bids will be considered fairly and in detail, and we shall come to a conclusion in the near future.
 Mr. Robertson : It is critical that we look at each of the proposals in some detail. I am concerned to preserve Britannia, and to ensure that her dignity and long-term future are absolutely assured. I shall take no prior view of which option is best. They will all be considered on exactly the same basis, and I hope to be able to make a decision shortly.
 Mr. Robertson : I am not certain whether my hon. Friend made a slip of the tongue when she said Plymouth—perhaps she meant Portsmouth, as Plymouth has not entered a bid for consideration. We need to take a dispassionate and objective view of the proposals, and to consider all representations. I appreciate that there are strong views in each of the localities involved in the decision. They serve to underline the fact that there are strong feelings in the country that Britannia should be preserved. It is my responsibility to ensure that, if she is preserved, that is done in a way most fitting for the ship and for the country.
 Mr. Robertson : It has been made clear that there will be no call on public funds, but we must ascertain that in connection with any of the seven bids that are being considered. The Britannia will not be replaced or rebuilt; that decision is final. All the private finance options would have been viable only with substantial amounts of public money. I appreciate that, inevitably, the hon. Gentleman will favour the Portsmouth option, and it will be carefully considered among all the other options.
 Mr. Robertson : Of course it will come from the defence budget, as it should, as it involves military de-mining. I hope that the hon. Gentleman is as proud as I am of the work that has been and will be done at Minley. The £125,000 is a good investment in the sort of jobs that will be done at that establishment by the Royal Engineers.
 Mr. Robertson : I can assure the hon. Gentleman that, in every area where there is concern on humanitarian de-mining, we are moving with expedition. My visit to Bosnia was designed to highlight a new five-point programme on humanitarian de-mining. Colonel Alastair McAslan has been nominated as the British Army's representative on humanitarian de-mining. We are fulfilling all the obligations which, as a major military nation, we should.
 The Secretary of State for Defence (Mr. George Robertson) : Our land mines strategy will have no significant impact on the operating costs or manpower of the Royal Engineers. I am pleased to say that they will be playing a direct role in the Mine Information and Training Centre at Minley.
 Mr. Robertson : In peacetime, it is not the role of our soldiers to get involved in humanitarian mine clearing, although they have considerable expertise in the clearance of areas following conflicts. I assure the hon. Lady, and I am proud to say, that the Royal Engineers will play a distinguished part in the work of the Mine Information and Training Centre. Its expertise and knowledge will be used in Government and non-governmental organisations to ensure that the task of humanitarian de-mining, which is of such great importance in the world today, is conducted in the most professional and expert way possible.
 Mr. Robertson : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. A significant moment in history will occur on Wednesday when my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for International Development will be in Canada to sign the Ottawa treaty, which will ban the export, import, transfer, manufacture and, ultimately, use of anti-personnel land mines. That, in itself, is one step in the direction in which, I believe, the world wishes to go.
 Mr. Robertson : The right hon. Gentleman knows that the Labour party was elected on a manifesto that said that we would assure the strong defence of this country. Of course it is a priority and it will remain so. This nation's defence is safe in this Government's hands.
 Mr. Robertson : I assure the right hon. Gentleman that the cost of NATO enlargement will be spread over a considerable period. For the new countries—the invitees to the membership of NATO—participating in collective defence is preferable to, and cheaper than, attempting to provide the same security on a national basis. Any nation—ours as well as the new countries—must be secure before it can do anything. Inevitably, the new countries would have been involved in assuring their future security by expenditure on military capability. Our country has been able to live in peace and security for almost half a century because of our membership of NATO. It is clear that the 12 nations that have applied for membership did so because they wanted the same.
 Mr. Robertson : I do not believe that we should link our defence expenditure to any average or any particular figure. This country should be defended strongly and it should be defended well. It is important that we establish the priorities for our country not only as a nation, but as a partner in NATO and a member of the United Nations Security Council. We make our own decisions. That was the position taken by the Labour Government in 1945 when they took Britain into NATO, and it is the position taken by the Labour Government who were elected this year.
 Mr. George Robertson : Our assessment is that the costs associated with the enlargement of NATO to include Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic will be manageable. I and other NATO Defence Ministers will be considering tomorrow a report from NATO staffs on the military and financial implications of enlargement.
 Mr. Robertson : Any additional cost to our NATO subscription arising from enlargement will be met from
 10
 Mr. George Stevenson  (Stoke-on-Trent, South) : This is an extremely important debate. Anyone who has listened to the Opposition contributions, especially to that of the right hon. Member for Wokingham (Mr. Redwood), will have been left with the clear impression that the Conservatives are seeking to rerun the past. Listening to their contributions so far, it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that the only arguments that they have advanced are the stale, old ones that we heard during the election campaign, which the Conservatives lost. 106
 Mr. Stevenson : I am prepared to debate that point with the hon. Lady at any time she chooses, but I would say now that her general comment would not stand up to scrutiny. What she describes was certainly not the case in my local authority area—I have had the figures checked. Increases in business rates have far outstripped increases in general rates.
 Mr. Stevenson : That is more a comment on the effectiveness of the previous Government's consultation processes than a statement of the truth of the matter. All hon. Members, with the possible exception of the hon. Member for South Cambridgeshire (Mr. Lansley), would accept without much equivocation that late payment is a real problem for small businesses. Why did the previous Government not act? Why did they ignore the problem throughout their period in office? The Labour Government will act to lift that burden from small businesses. 109
 Mr. Stevenson : My hon. Friend is obviously correct, and I am grateful for that intervention. 108
 Mr. Stevenson : I am extremely grateful, Mr. Deputy Speaker. 107
 Mr. Stevenson : So, what you are saying is that another ignominious collapse of Government policy is good for British policy. Is that what you are arguing?
 Mr. Stevenson : I apologise to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, but it is interventions of that nature that mean that we sometimes slip up over parliamentary protocol—
 Mr. Stevenson : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Davies : As always, the Government have the long-term interest of business in mind. I am of course aware of the position in relation to cash flow management in the next few years, but, in sharp contrast with the previous Government, we are looking towards the long term.
 Mr. Davies : No, I did not. We were too busy talking about the need for British business to prepare for economic and monetary union, which the Conservatives completely overlooked. It was pointed out to me at that dinner that having the old Tories still in power, arguing among themselves, would have been a hopeless catastrophe for businesses trying to prepare for the emerging Europe. The minimum wage did not feature in the discussions, partly because it is not a serious issue for the main players in the CBI. The idea of the minimum wage is to encourage skilling, added value and productivity. In a modern economy, our ambition is not to become the new China.
 Mr. Geraint Davies : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Geraint Davies  (Croydon, Central) : I want to respond to the right hon. Member for Wokingham—Mr. Deadwood, as he is known—
 Mr. Davies : I am sorry that the right hon. Gentleman—
 Mr. Davies : It is that chap over there. My hon. Friend probably does not know him. He is not very famous. 115
 Mr. Davies : I am provoking a lot of Conservative Members now. I have to take one intervention.
 Mr. Davies : We have been in government for only seven months and already we are seeing the first blossoms of economic success, with employment growing. The single move by the Chancellor to delegate responsibility for setting interest rates to the Bank of England reduced overnight the cost of borrowing on gilts by 0.29 per cent. In the first year, that will save the taxpayer £50 million and, as those bonds mature, the saving will be about £750 million per year to the taxpayer. That is just one move.
 Mr. Davies : I want to respond to the right hon. Member for Wokingham (Mr. Redwood). I will not make any jokes about him, other than to say that he seemed to think of himself as old king coal, Arthur's friend. After 18 years of Conservative rule under which the coal industry was destroyed, it was a bit rich to hear the shadow Minister standing on his hind legs talking as though he was the champion of coal. He suddenly asserted that gas was more expensive than coal—a basic insight which, apparently, he did not have when he was a Minister in the previous Government.
 Mr. Davies : I will give way later.
 Mr. Geraint Davies  (Croydon, Central) : Is it not the case that under the previous Government, the coal industry was emasculated, decimated and destroyed? As Secretary of State for Wales, the right hon. Gentleman did nothing to defend Welsh jobs. Is it not a disgrace that he has the audacity to come to the House and to make such suggestions?
 Mr. Gerald Howarth  (Aldershot) : No, I am not. I am rising to invite the President of the Board of Trade to tell us a little more about the foresight action programme. She said that the Government are taking the matter forward, but she made no proposal regarding the grave concern of the Society of British Aerospace Companies that the investment under past Conservative Governments, which has led to the £5 billion of inward income into this country arising out of exports, will dry up because Government investment is not being made available. What is the right hon. Lady doing on the foresight action programme in regard to the aerospace industry?
 Mr. Gerald Howarth : I hope that the Secretary of State had an interesting visit to the Royal School of Military Engineering at Minley in my constituency. I was interested to hear him say that he reckons that the centre of mine expertise will not have a significant financial impact. When it was announced in October, it was reported that it would cost £125,000 to set up the centre. Will that money come out of the defence budget or that of the Overseas Development Administration?
 Mr. Prentice   indicated dissent
 Mr. Gordon Prentice : Before the Minister leaves the point—
 Mr. Prentice : Is the right hon. Gentleman against the euro in principle? Is there a constitutional bar to joining
 92
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : My right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade did not take the decision to award Rolls-Royce not £100 million in launch aid, but £200 million. I have a Rolls-Royce plant in my constituency, and I know for a fact that my right hon. Friend had nothing to do with the decision to which the right hon. Gentleman referred.
 Mr. Howard Flight  (Arundel and South Downs) : May I suggest to you that, rather than being a huge problem, it was the greatest boon to industry when the United Kingdom left the ERM?
 Mr. Edwards : May I remind my hon. Friend that the oldest Territorial regiment in the British Army is the Royal Monmouthshire Royal Engineers, based in Monmouth in my constituency? Does he agree with me that the outstanding work that it has performed in Bosnia recently demonstrates the important operational role that the Territorial forces can play following the strategic defence review?
 Mr. lain Duncan Smith  (Chingford and Woodford Green) : I beg to move,
 That this House deeply regrets the unnecessary delay to proposals on pension and welfare reform; finds it inconceivable that having attacked reductions to lone parent benefits proposed by the previous Government this Government now plans to implement the same reductions; and urges the Government to take this opportunity to reassure people with disabilities that they will not tax Disability Living Allowance or transfer disability benefits from disabled individuals to bureaucracies such as local government's social services departments.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for raising that point and I am pleased that he has bothered to read my pamphlet. I have been waiting some time for him to get round to it. The Secretary of State for Social Security might do well to read it herself. The answer to the hon. Gentleman's question is that pension reform requires one to consider all aspects—
 Mr. Duncan Smith : The real rows come from among the hon. Gentleman's friends and all those sitting on the Back Benches behind him. "end welfare as we know it." "We need to invest more as a country in savings and pensions. But Government's role is going to be to organise provision—like new stakeholder pensions—not fund it all through ever higher taxes." "it means fundamental reform of our welfare state, of the deal between citizen and society" 23
 Mr. Duncan Smith : I see that the right hon. Gentleman is nodding, so we have established that. In that case, what was the purpose of the review by the Under-Secretary of State, and if the Prime Minister thought in October that the Green Paper would be issued shortly, why do we have to wait until the new year to receive it? Nothing has happened. Three months after that promise, we will still be waiting.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : The hon. Lady asks a serious question. The issue of pensions mis-selling is being dealt
 26 Financial Times "His package now seems insufficiently new Labour.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : The hon. Gentleman should listen to the answer. I do not resile for one moment from the idea that, as the Prime Minister said, pension reform requires one to think the unthinkable. Ministers are doing very little thinking, unthinkable or otherwise. What I wrote in 1993 went further towards pension reform than anything that Ministers have produced. "The Government intends to publish its initial framework for change in the first part of 1998. There will then be a further period of consultation before firm proposals are developed."—[ Official Report 90. 24 "His aim is for Labour to enter Government with a sufficiently well created plan that it can be part of the first Queen's speech and a draft Bill in the first year, allowing for a year for debate." "crucial to avoid the mistakes of Dick Crossman and Harold Wilson who spent four years consulting and lost their plan in the 1970 election".
 Mr. Duncan Smith : The hon. Gentleman is doing very well, is he not? He rose to take a position on pensions, but he talked about a giveaway in the green Budget, which was more about protecting the position of those on the Government Front Bench than anything else. It was cobbled together quickly to get them out of a hole because they are getting nowhere over all their so-called reform processes. 25 "Based on somebody earning £15,000 a year, remaining out of SERPS could cost them the equivalent of £360 a year in retirement income. And for higher earners it could be far more." "A failure to close SERPS will mean substantial tax bills for future generations." "Anyone persuaded SERPS had a future ought to be made a ward of court".
 Mr. Duncan Smith : If the hon. Lady were to check the intervention list from her Whips Office, she might
 27 28
 Mr. Duncan Smith : Frankly, if the hon. Lady tries to persuade her right hon. Friend the Prime Minister to make us all offers to move over to the Government Benches, we will listen. The truth is that, believe it or not, the hon. Lady is in government. Those on her Front Bench are there to make decisions. When will they do so? The Government do not like the fact that I am simply saying that when they promise major reforms, and then do absolutely nothing, they are misleading the public. The longer we go on about that, the less they like it. We have been offered no reform.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : That is the point that I am coming to. The reality is that there is one dispute after another. The Secretary of State is arguing with the Minister for Welfare Reform about who should be in charge. He wants compulsion; she does not. I agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Billericay (Mrs. Gorman) that it is one endless internal dispute after another, which is why we are not getting anywhere with the reforms. There have been no reforms at all. The Independent "The Secretary of State says that he is cutting benefits to lone mothers because they are at an advantage compared to married mothers…but it is not fair on the families of women who bring up children on their own. They will be worse off."—[ Official Report
 Mr. Duncan Smith : The hon. Gentleman asked what our position is. Had we won the last election and been in government now, we would, without question, have implemented the changes. I have told the Government that. [Interruption.] [Interruption.] "No. We believe that we can avoid that situation within the existing budget". The Independent.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : It is no good the hon. Gentleman shouting—getting on with it is the simple process of
 31
 Mr. Duncan Smith : I agree with the hon. Gentleman. Interestingly, we will have people trained for child care through the welfare-to-work programme who might have to be compelled into that process, but they might be looking after the children of those whom the right hon. Lady refuses to compel to go into work. That is a dichotomy: on the one hand, we will have people not compelled to take up jobs and, on the other hand, people being compelled to train to look after the first group's children. Child care is a serious subject and the Government are treating it with a great deal of frivolity.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : The Minister was absolutely clear that they were going to give the details of the package next year. They changed their plans simply because the right hon. Lady was in trouble, along with her right hon. and hon. Friends.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : I shall give way later. 30 "We are currently developing a National Childcare Strategy which will help parents…I will make an announcement in the first part of next year."—[ Official Report 361.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : There is no point in rising to protect them—the hon. Gentleman should stop trying to be an air raid shelter taking some of the flak for the Secretary of State. The reality is that the Chancellor suddenly managed to find £200 million from the lottery, £50 million from the Department for Education and Employment and £30 million from the windfall tax to pay for after-school clubs.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : I am concluding. 32
 Mr. Duncan Smith : Of course I back the efforts to help lone parents. The Secretary of State may recall that, when she came into government, there was already a programme to be set up in the same eight areas, called parent plus, which was started by the Conservative Government.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : It has been backdated.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : No. The right hon. Lady asked me a question. She shall get the answer.
 Mr. Duncan Smith : The right hon. Lady is talking about measuring the results. We visited the pilot areas in September. When officials were asked whether there were
 39
 Mr. Duncan Smith : So the right hon. Lady will not abolish it?
 Mr. Duncan Smith : I know that many of the submissions have proposed that the state earnings-related pension scheme should be phased out or abolished. Would the right hon. Lady be happy to get rid of SERPS, regardless of what the manifesto said?
 Mr. Ian Bruce : My hon. Friend listens to speeches much more attentively than I do, but I thought that we heard a list of what business wanted. Did not the Secretary of State say that a high pound was one of the complaints of business? Or has she not been listening to business at all?
 Mr. Bruce   rose—
 Mr. Ian Bruce : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I know that the Minister would not want to mislead the House. I have just checked the record of the Doorkeeper, and my hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Mr. Bercow) spoke for 20 minutes. Clearly, the Minister cannot count that far. If he thinks that 20 minutes is 45, he should not be in that office.
 Mr.Bruce   rose—
 Mr. Ian Bruce : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I am sorry to disturb the peroration by my hon. Friend the Member for Sevenoaks (Mr. Fallon). Have you been informed, Madam Speaker, that the President of the Board of Trade will not be here? My hon. Friend is presenting a damning indictment of the right hon. Lady's speech, yet she is not here to hear it; nor is—
 Mr. Ian Bruce : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Ian Bruce  (South Dorset) : My right hon. Friend has been remiss in not mentioning the minimum wage. Last week, I went to hear a Minister tell lawyers about the minimum wage, only to find that a civil servant had been sent. Does not such Government unwillingness to get up in public occur all the time these days?
 Mr. Ian Bruce : Will the right hon. Lady give way on that point?
 Mr. Ian Bruce : We all acknowledge the difficulties of tackling the millennium bug in the time available, but will the right hon. Lady acknowledge that the Government have slipped on the targets that were set for the civil service? Why has she appointed Don Cruickshank to that post when the Government ignored him when he wrote to them about the Wireless Telegraphy Bill and said that it should protect the consumer?
 Mr. Davidson : Does my hon. Friend agree that tradition in the regimental system can be a burden as well as a benefit? What steps will he take to ensure that regimental traditions that restrict access to the officer class are swept away? In particular, what steps is he taking to ensure that youngsters who are not from public schools can become officers and, say, guards in the cavalry regiments?
 Mr. McCartney : Sit down.
 The Minister of State, Department of Trade and Industry (Mr. Ian McCartney) : The hon. Member for Sevenoaks (Mr. Fallon) has been out of politics for five years, and his speech showed it. He is the same old Tory with the same old story. He has nothing new to say, so he simply attacks. He attacks the right of home workers to be paid 50p an hour. He supports the principle and concept of low pay, but opposes the right of workers whose children fall ill to take time off to visit them in hospital. He opposes the right of 2 million low-paid workers to have paid holidays for the first time in their life. He is opposed to employers and employees sitting down in works councils to discuss matters of interest and agreement—despite the fact that, when the Tory Government opted out, employers opted in.
 Mr. McCartney : Wait a minute. The Sunday Times 122
 Mr. McCartney : No.
 Mr. McCartney : To return to the issues at stake, Opposition Members spent a great deal of time on their favourite subject—attacking Europe. As we reach the close of the debate, perhaps I can help them. We are considering a new directive, protecting endangered species living out of their natural habitats. What could be more relevant to Conservative Members who, on 1 May, were driven out of Scotland and out of Wales, and were recently driven out of Winchester? To make things a little easier for themselves, they drove themselves out of Leominster. 125
 Mr. McCartney : In the past 10 years, Conservative Members have always thought that they could put me off by shouting at me, even when they were on Government Benches. Some day, they will learn their lesson. There is no possibility of Opposition Members putting me off, on any subject at any time, and they should learn that. Nor will I ever give way to right hon. and hon. Members who preach double standards and hypocrisy in this House. The hon. Member for Buckingham had three quarters of an hour to put his case, and he failed abysmally. I will not give way to him, when Labour Members who should have been able to speak were not allowed to. In fact, this is a first. I have never known an Opposition to filibuster their own motion as much as Conservative Members have done, but they did.
 Mr.McCartney : We introduced a 10p increase in capital allowances for small firms, reduced vehicle excise duty for low-emission lorries, reduced the gas levy, increased tax allowances for film production and simplified gilt interest. Goodness, I am tired out—and that is only in the first seven months of a Labour Government. 123 [Interruption.] 124
 Mr. Ivor Caplin  (Hove) : Will the hon. Gentleman produce for the House the evidence that shows that the hon. Member for West Dorset (Mr. Letwin) is right? There is none.
 Mr. Straw : I think that the hon. Gentleman is talking about changes to advance corporation tax. The cost to the Church Commissioners will be £12 million per annum in 1997 values. The commissioners tell me that they welcome the time allowed by the Government to plan for the removal of ACT relief and the phasing of its impact between 1999 and 2004.
 The Secretary of State for the Home Department (Mr. Jack Straw) : In the absence of my hon. Friend the
 16
 Mr. Straw : The hon. Gentleman makes an entirely fair point. Speaking not as a Church Commissioner but as the Member of Parliament for Blackburn, I must tell the House that many of my constituents' jobs depend on defence contractors. It is also fair to add that NATO countries account for some £2 billion of the £2.4 billion—85 per cent.—of GEC defence sales.
 Mr. Straw : I think that there is. It is fair to say that the commissioners are now being much more proactive about their investments in pursuit of their approach not to invest in any company whose main business is in armaments, gambling, breweries, distilleries, tobacco or newspapers.
 Mr. Straw : I shall ensure that my hon. Friend's remarks are passed on to the commissioners who deal directly and professionally with the issue. It is reasonable to point out that the number of people recommended for training was 420 in 1995, 453 in 1996 and 486 so far in 1997. The Church Commissioners are concerned to maintain the funding of clergy pensions and that is why they have made new arrangements. From 1 January next year, dioceses will meet the cost from funds provided by parishes of all clergy pension rights for future service, but not for past service. That is being done not least so that the commissioners can ensure the future funding of stipends in needy areas.
 Mr. Straw : This is not strictly a matter for the Church Commissioners. I understand, however, from the advisory board of ministry that the number of candidates recommended for training for the ministry increased significantly in 1996 and this year. Confidence in the Church's arrangements for funding the ministry may have played a part in this encouraging development.
 Mr. James Arbuthnot  (North-East Hampshire)   rose in his place and claimed to move
 Mr. Bercow : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I ask for your guidance. Is it in order for a Minister at the Dispatch Box who has referred to an hon. Member to refuse to take an intervention from that Member?
 Mr. Bercow : There was not the slightest evidence that she had listened to the representations of business on the subject. The most curious feature of her oration was when she listed with glowing pride a series of measures that she and the Government had introduced. She did that to justify the claim that she was working for British business. If she had been so courteous as to take my intervention, I would have asked her whether she thinks that size of Government and quantity of legislation are equivalent to quality of administration. 102
 Mr. Bercow : I am interested to hear that. I have had discussions with the Federation of Small Businesses and its position remains absolutely clear: it is against a national minimum wage, but now that it is to be introduced it will seek to minimise its impact. That is simply good business sense. The federation would rather that the minimum wage had never come on the agenda in the first place.
 Mr. Bercow : I am sorry to say that the hon. Gentleman would not secure a post as a researcher in this place because his research is deficient. The simple fact is that the Federation of Small Businesses is opposed to a statutory minimum wage. If the hon. Gentleman is not aware of that important fact, frankly it is high time that he became so. [Interruption.] 104
 Mr. Bercow : My hon. Friend is entirely correct. The President of the Board of Trade is proposing to kick the ladder away from those who might have had the chance to get their feet upon its first rungs. That is disgraceful. It is an exploitation of her position in favour of the strong and to the detriment of the weak. She is culpable and she will be held responsible in due course. 103
 Mr. Bercow : My hon. Friend is entirely correct. What is more, that trend will be exacerbated if the policies of this Administration are pursued. If we go into a single European currency and if, as a consequence of so doing, unemployment in parts of Europe increases, so will our contribution to the cohesion funds. We will not be the beneficiaries of those increased payments. Transfer payments to other member states in the European Union will be enormous, and the British taxpayer will pick up the bill.
 Mr. Bercow : I shall not give way as I am coming to a conclusion—I am sure the hon. Gentleman will be greatly reassured by that.
 Mr. Bercow : I shall not give way to the hon. Gentleman again, for the simple reason that I know that other hon. Members wish to speak in the debate, and I am about to make my final point about the strikers' charter. 105 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Bercow : Unfortunately the hon. Gentleman is getting rather confused about different treaties. He is entirely correct that the Conservative Administration signed the Single European Act. Its principal provisions, as I would have hoped the hon. Gentleman is conscious, were to do with completion of the single market. For that purpose, we accepted some qualified majority voting. The employment chapter to which I am referring is a feature of the treaty of Amsterdam. If the hon. Gentleman is able to propel his mind forward 11 years, that would greatly aid our debate.
 Mr. Bercow : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Bercow : Rubbish.
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me when I was not expecting it. 101
 Mr. Bercow : I am sure that the right hon. Lady, with her long experience in the House, recognises that it is her duty to answer questions rather than to ask them. She refers to the views of business and claims to respect those views. Will she therefore ensure that small businesses are exempted from the minimum wage out of deference to the judgment of the Federation of Small Businesses and the Forum of Private Business—yes or no?
 Mr. Bercow   rose—
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : Far be it from me to stop my right hon. Friend when he is in full and spectacular flow, but does he think that, in failing to secure general exemptions from the national minimum wage, the Minister without Portfolio has been utterly humiliated by the President of the Board of Trade, to the detriment of British industry and commerce?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Social Security (Mr. John Denham) : The hon. Lady has no idea.
 Mr. McAllion : My right hon. Friend will recall that retaining Trident was a manifesto commitment of both Labour and the Tory party at the general election. Will he acknowledge that it is, at the very least, open to interpretation whether the British people embraced Trident by voting Labour in or rejected Trident by voting the Tories out? Given that uncertainty, will he take on board the latest polling evidence, which shows that 63 per cent. of British people believe that money spent on Trident is wasted public expenditure and that 59 per cent. of British people believe that this country would be much safer without nuclear weapons altogether? If we really are the people's Government, why do we not listen to the people and rid ourselves once and for all of these obscene weapons of mass destruction?
13.  Mr. McAllion : How many representations his Department has received on the Trident nuclear weapons system since 1 May; and how many  (a) (b)
 Mr. Redwood : I did not allege that the right hon. Lady took the decision. I know that she would not do that.
 84
 Mr. Redwood : As I shall demonstrate, the Labour party is not proposing to reduce the corporation tax burden on companies in the next four years; it is proposing a swingeing increase in corporation tax during this Parliament. I am surprised that the hon. Gentleman has not done his homework on the Budget arithmetic, as he walked straight into that one in a rather unfortunate way. I suggest that he sends it back to the spin doctor for rewriting. 83
 Mr. Redwood : That is another failure by the spin doctors; the hon. Gentleman should do his homework. He would then discover that I fought hard to allow the miners and the employees of the Tower colliery to buy their pit. I, like them, thought that they could make a success of it. I am pleased to say that, through their efforts, that is exactly what they did. I confess that I intervened in the Department of Trade and Industry to ensure that they had that opportunity, and I am proud of having done so. It is a lot more than the President of the Board of Trade has done for the industry since she has been in her post. 86 "Since the government could be portrayed as driving the nails in the coal industry's coffin, these points deliberately do not highlight the government's environmental targets for Kyoto."
 Mr. Redwood : Perish the thought. I wish to talk about taxation as one of the principal burdens on business. "The principles that will underpin our tax policy are clear: to encourage employment … to promote savings and investment".
 Mr. Redwood : My hon. Friend is right. As Ministers are so secretive about all their doings, it is only natural that they become jumpy when we ask questions. If they were more open, they would avoid many more problems. The more secretive they are, the more suspicions build up and the more questions we shall table. 85 "There is an expectation that deep mined coal will effectively end within ten years unless the government intervenes to protect it by changing its environmental and energy policies." "We have also found these arguments on commercial negotiations between companies useful when declining bids for ministerial interviews, so preventing the 'we asked the minister to appear but he declined' statement."
 Mr. Redwood : The hon. Gentleman should listen to my powerful case about the way in which the Government are letting down business. He might like to remember that, before I came to the House, I chaired an industrial company and was a director of a merchant bank. I had
 82
 Mr. John Redwood  (Wokingham) : I beg to move,
 That this House regrets the damage to business and jobs represented by the actions and inactions of this Government; condemns the broken promises to the coal industry, the lack of clarity over ministerial duties, the persistent tax raids on business and the threats posed by new legislation; and urges the President of the Board of Trade to set out a clear energy, competition and business policy that is in the interests of British companies. "New Labour will establish a new trust on tax with the British people."
 Mr. Redwood : That seems to be the current position, but I warn my hon. Friend that the Minister without Portfolio has considerable guile. The President of the Board of Trade should watch out for a counter-attack. The hon. Gentleman has ways of influencing members of the Government.
 Mr. Redwood : My hon. Friend is right. I reassure him that my hon. Friend the Member for Sevenoaks (Mr. Fallon) will be referring to the minimum wage, so that we cover that vital issue as well.
 Mr. Redwood : The hon. Gentleman is disappointed because I have given a good answer, which he cannot exploit. 93
 Mr. Redwood : Comparing me to a catherine wheel is the nicest thing that the right hon. Lady has said about me all day. However, she has missed the point of my press releases. The point is simple: there is a possible conflict between environmental imperatives and the needs of British industry. I have not told her how the balance should be struck, but I am asking her again today to tell the nation how it will be struck. The specific issue is whether more coal or more gas power stations will be used regularly. That is a good test of whether the Government are greener or more industrial.
 Mr. Redwood : If the hon. Gentleman would like to tell me why he was taken off those inquiries, I should be delighted to give him the Floor.
 Mr. Redwood : I enjoyed the right hon. Lady's point about correspondence. I have a little advice for her: if she does not want so many letters, all that she has to do is to answer a few questions—then we shall not need to ask so many. I have a question now. The right hon. Lady has tried to present the case that the Government are cutting taxes on business. The Conservative forecast is that the measures announced so far will cost British business £25 billion extra over the lifetime of this Parliament. Does the right hon. Lady agree? What impact will that have on jobs, investment and new ideas?
 Mr. Redwood : I am against, for this and the next Parliament, the substantial sacrifice of sovereignty that the single currency entails, because we do not see economic benefits flowing from it and the conditions are not right. We would not therefore recommend to the British people the sacrifice of sovereignty that it entails.
 Mr. Redwood : "The Minister"—I am grateful. I give way.
 Mr. Redwood : I said that monetary union could break the economies of western Europe if people entered it on the wrong terms and the wrong basis. I still believe that that is true. Yes, my right hon. and hon. Friends agree with me. If we have a bungled monetary union, when the economies are not working together, which is what is on offer at the moment, it will be very damaging to economies entering it.
 Mr. Redwood : I should have thought that the hon. Gentleman and his party would want to apologise for that. My party has apologised for it. The Labour party recommended the ERM, supported it, never criticised it and never said that we should come out of it. Will the Labour party now join us in apologising to the British people over that issue?
 Mr. Redwood : I am very happy to do that. The hon. Gentleman seems unaware of the crucial difference between a Leader-elect of the Opposition and a Minister. "none of the arguments for staying in the EEC can be sustained." 91
 Mr. Redwood : I am grateful again for your advice, Mr. Deputy Speaker. The hon. Member for Workington (Mr. Campbell-Savours) does not seem to have accepted the distinction that I am making between the rules that apply to Ministers who are, rightly, subject to tighter rules than others and who are governed by "Questions of Procedure for Ministers" and its replacement, and the
 90 "One has to wonder why people give to a blind trust when they could give—as Ecclestone did—to the party."
 Mr. Redwood : The principal objection that our party shares is that we cannot have a successful single currency until all economies are performing as if they were one. We Conservatives do not foresee such circumstances. My hon. Friend is right. All the time that the economies are not performing in line or as one, we need separate economic policies in order to steer them in the right direction, in the national interest.
 Mr. Redwood : My hon. Friend makes an extremely powerful point, and I am grateful to him. The windfall tax is, indeed, a cost that gets passed on, and it is another reason why the Government's energy policy is in such a mess.
 Mr. Redwood : I am going on to make my case and to offer two possible explanations.
 Mr. Redwood : I need your guidance, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I believe that the right hon. Lady answered questions wrongly. Either she did that because she was misinformed or she did it because she wished to mislead us—
 Mr. Redwood : It is a question that I hope the Government will be answering, because it is important to get at the seeming tension between some members of the Government's attitude in private and the stated public position, which does not seem to have been reversed so far, that Jersey and Guernsey trusts are not a good idea because of the tax losses that can, but do not always, occur to UK residents or UK companies.
 Mr. Redwood : I am happy to take on the hon. Gentleman. Does he want to intervene? He asked about my wife; I shall tell him. My wife works for British Airways. I told everyone that when I first entered a Department of State. I said that I wanted nothing to do with anything concerning British Airways because of that, although the rules at the time did not require that degree of caution. Wives and husbands were not mentioned in the rules at the time. I told people in advance; I am asking for the same courtesy from these Ministers. 88 "The Society endorses the concern which has been widely expressed by the business community in general about the 'chilling effect' of the prohibition approach to competition law. The Article 86 prohibition will have the combined effect of deterring legitimate business activities." "poses a threat to the long term survival of community pharmacies". "would close thousands of pubs and destroy tens of thousands of jobs". "A Labour Chancellor will not permit tax reliefs to millionaires in offshore tax havens."
 Mr. Redwood : I accept your guidance, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I thought, however, that I had asked a perfectly civil question. I think that the right hon. Lady owes us an explanation of why she told us certain things and we then discovered that something else happened. It is a convention of the House—
 Mr. Redwood : If the hon. Member for Delyn (Mr. Hanson) checks the motion, he will see that it is widely enough couched to include the important matter of how Ministers take decisions and which decisions they are allowed to take. We have had great difficulty in finding out from the President of the Board of Trade and her right hon. and hon. Friends what they are and are not allowed to do. We should like some simple, straight answers to our questions.
 Mr. John Smith  (Vale of Glamorgan) : Is my right hon. Friend aware that, according to the latest published figures, in parts of my constituency the average gross household income, including all non-housing benefits, is—and I ask hon. Members to listen carefully—less than £3,000 a year? That is less than 60 quid a week to support
 35
 Mr. Spellar : I thank the hon. Gentleman for that point. We try to take regeneration issues into account and to work with local authorities and other planning agencies wherever possible, but in many cases we must retain sites for strategic defence interests. We should not consider alienating that land if it were to the detriment of training or of the operations of the services. We are mindful of the need for regeneration and the ability, through that, to contribute to the regeneration of the whole country.
 Mr. Spellar : I thank the right hon. Gentleman, who perhaps strayed into one of his previous incarnations in asking that question; but I take his point. We try to work with planning authorities at an early stage. That is important because it can facilitate the disposal of land, which can then be brought into effective use for the benefit of the community—with, incidentally, the best possible return for the defence budget.
 Mr. Spellar : Our aim is to fulfil our manifesto commitment to facilitate the wider application of defence
 8
 Mr. Spellar : I thank my hon. Friend for raising the question of industries in her Redditch constituency, because many of those are the small and medium enterprises that are very much the core of our defence industry. Sometimes we concentrate too much on the prime contractors, to the exclusion of SMEs.
 Mr. Spellar : In addition to forecast receipts this year of £140 million, we expect to receive about £200 million over the next two years for land and buildings that have already been identified as surplus. The strategic defence review is examining vigorously the scope for further disposals.
 Mr. Spellar : There has already been a considerable reduction in the defence estate. Further disposal will follow the identification of other areas. Of course we want to ensure that land and buildings are used to the maximum efficiency, not only to realise money for the defence budget but, quite properly, to ensure that land is available for regeneration and housing. Many local authorities are
 9
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Defence (Mr. John Spellar) : My decision on the review of officer prisoners of war and protected personnel pay deductions during the second world war was taken after very careful consideration of the submissions from ex-officer prisoners of war and protected personnel, and of the long and detailed report of the review, a copy of which is in the Library of the House. I concurred with the findings of previous Ministers that the contemporary evidence did not support the claims being made for further refunding of deductions.
 Mr. Spellar : There is considerable argument about several aspects of this matter, especially as much of it relates to records that no longer exist. All the issues were fully discussed in the House and fully examined by the then Government after the second world war and decisions were made on that basis. Successive Governments have gone through the information and confirmed those decisions because the case for doing otherwise has not been made.
 Mr. Spellar : With respect to the hon. Gentleman, we have, as promised, reviewed the situation. I have gone
 5
 Mr. Spellar : All hon. Members, this Administration and previous Administrations fully understand the tremendous contribution made by many of those individuals, both before they were taken prisoner and, in many cases, afterwards, when they tied up many German and Italian troops in trying to recapture escaping prisoners of war. That is common ground. When we move on to the question of whether deductions were adequately repaid, we find that many of the investigations took place immediately after the war, that the issues were discussed in the House of Commons and that parliamentary questions were tabled. At that time, contemporary evidence was closely examined, which is why the
 6
 Mr. Spellar : The hon. Gentleman is not looking at the case. In reality, a number of those who came back after the war were refunded by the authorities. There was discussion about that at the time. In a number of other cases, camp funds were put together, but that is a separate issue. Many of those who had had moneys deducted and who were able to demonstrate that they did not receive the moneys in the camp got a refund after the war. All that forms part of the body of facts that we have established and gone through, which is why we made the decision.
 Mr. Spellar : Much of the evidence was considered by the Attlee Labour Government after the last war and the issues examined by those who were much closer to the evidence at the time. That evidence was re-examined by the previous Administration and by this Administration and, when we did it, we looked at a number of representations from those with an individual viewpoint, both officer POWs and protected personnel. We examined that evidence and compared it with the contemporary evidence and with the documentation. It was for that reason that we took our decision.
10.  Mr. Wilkinson : What assessment he has made of the adequacy of heavy lift transport aircraft in Royal Air Force service. [16804]
 Mr. Wilkinson : I am grateful for that answer. In peace maintenance as in war fighting, is it not important to get to the critical spot firstest with the mostest, particularly when the United Kingdom is increasingly withdrawing from overseas bases? Will the Minister therefore assure the House that, after the review, the RAF will be able to procure at the earliest possible date a proven aircraft—the C17, which can carry a main battle tank and has been an admirable aeroplane in the United States air force?
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : Why have Ministers of the Crown and other right hon. and hon. Members routinely declared in the Register of Members'
 89
 Mr. Wilkinson : My hon. Friend is making a cogent case about the dangers of the employment chapter to which the Government have signed up by virtue of the Amsterdam treaty. Would he care to turn his attention even wider, to the question of structural funds? Is it not the case that far from securing influence in the councils of the European Union, Her Majesty's Government are likely to lose grade 1 status for the highlands and islands of Scotland and for Northern Ireland as recipients of structural funds? Furthermore, while we are being disadvantaged, more and more British taxpayers' money is being dispersed to other parts of the European Union. In other words, their employment is being aided whereas ours is being gravely disadvantaged.
 Mr. Sayeed : In his Budget, the Chancellor 0069mposed a £5 billion tax on pensions. How much will it cost parishioners to fund that tax?
 Mr. Julian Brazier  (Canterbury) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. My question relates to the tabling of oral questions. I understand from the media that the Lord Chancellor has let it be known that he sees himself as having a new co-ordinating role across Government Departments as, in his words, "a new Cardinal Wolsey". If we wish to question him on that matter in the Chamber, should we do so through his Parliamentary Secretary or through the Department concerned? He appears to have started with the Ministry of Defence.
 Mr. Brazier : Will the right hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Julian Brazier  (Canterbury) rose—
 Mr. Brazier : Is the Minister aware that such unit and formation-level exercises attract and retain the best-quality people in the TA? Is it true that an admiral has been asked to head the relevant strategic defence review team which will conduct the Reserve forces study?
 2
1.  Mr. Brazier : What steps he is taking to ensure that Territorial Army units can continue to conduct unit-level exercises and participate, as units, in formation-level training. [16794]
 Mr. Laurence Robertson  (Tewkesbury) : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the Government seem to be extremely sensitive on this issue? When I tabled a question to ask why the grant was given, the President of the Board of Trade replied that she had not been involved in the grant. That did not answer the question. Was not the right hon. Lady over-defensive before an allegation was even made?
 Mr. Llew Smith : What savings would come to the United Kingdom if we were to link our defence expenditure to the average of other western European countries?
 Mr. Savidge : With the Ottawa treaty being signed this Wednesday, does the Secretary of State agree that we should now be concentrating on the task of ridding ourselves of those land mines that have already been sown? Will he tell us more about what the Government will be doing to assist those involved in the humanitarian task of de-mining?
 Mr. Marsha Singh  (Bradford, West) : Does my hon. Friend agree that the whole basis of the Tories' argument today is to ask us to break manifesto commitments? That is not surprising, because their history in government was to break promise after promise. They have forgotten how to keep manifesto commitments, but we have not.
 Mr. Martin Bell : Is the Minister aware that the position of the head of his Department's humanitarian
 4
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : Is not one of the least attractive features of bullying in the armed services the fact that it is often related to racism? That provides a substantial disincentive for people from the ethnic minorities to join any of the armed services. Should not such matters be the responsibility of the chain of command? Is it not clear that if there is bullying and racism in any unit, the ultimate responsibility must rest with the commanding officer of that unit?
 Mr. Fallon : No, because I do not have time. "We are not in favour of new regulation in this area." "has been urging European Union leaders to refrain from using the social chapter to pass new laws that could intlict more red tape on business." "You will resist but you can't actually stop it happening." "Well, er, we shall see how things go." 120 "a government-funded study of problems with products used in hairdressing". "represent a genuine package of positive steps that will help to engender confidence in this important sector of the economy".
 Mr. Fallon : Further measures are proposed on sex discrimination and sexual harassment which not only run directly counter to the principle of United Kingdom civil law that people bringing a claim must prove their case, but flatly contradict Labour's Sex Discrimination Act 1975.
 Mr. Fallon : I shall not give way, because there is very little time. "It is tempting to see European works councils as a threat to trade union organisation. But that would be a recipe for inactivity. Our objective should be to do what the German trade unions do and take over these works councils in multinational companies." 119
 Mr. Michael Fallon  (Sevenoaks) : We have had a useful debate. What a contrast is to be drawn between the contributions of my hon. Friends and those of the two Labour Members. My hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Mr. Bercow), in an eloquent speech, highlighted the fallacy of the case for the minimum wage. My hon. Friend the Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Ruffley) reminded the Government of their complete inactivity on the business rate. 118
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. It ought to be possible for hon. Members to remember for a little while what I said.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman must sit down. Will he please refer to hon. Members in the correct way?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. May I make a general point to the House? The conventions exist precisely so that we do not lose our tempers and get carried away.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Both hon. Members are referring to me. I am not responsible for these matters.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Interventions are getting longer than speeches. The hon. Gentleman will please resume his seat.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : I call Mr. David Ruffley.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : As the hon. Gentleman is not prepared, I call Mr. John Bercow.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman has used the words "you" and "your". The Deputy Speaker is not responsible for those matters. I know that the hon. Gentleman is a new Member, but I should be grateful if he would try to use normal parliamentary language.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Order. I remind all hon. Members that interventions should be brief.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Let me speak, please; I do not speak that often. The right hon. Member for Wokingham (Mr. Redwood) seems to be getting into the realms of conflict of interest, which has nothing to do with the motion.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The right hon. Gentleman must withdraw his remark. The right hon. Lady is not guilty of misleading the House, as far as I know. The right hon. Gentleman must not make that suggestion.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I cannot tell the hon. Gentleman that.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The right hon. Gentleman must assure me that there is no suggestion that there was deliberate withholding of information by the right hon. Lady.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Is the right hon. Gentleman saying that the President of the Board of Trade deliberately withheld information from the House?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I said that the hon. Gentleman was out of order; I also told the right hon. Gentleman that he was out of order and must return to the motion.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman should know better. We are definitely straying from the motion and getting into personalities, which I do not want to do. We must return to the motion, and that goes for both sides of the House.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I hope that the right hon. Gentleman will not stray from the motion before us.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : I must inform the House that Madam Speaker has selected the amendment in the name of the Prime Minister.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. We can have only one speaker at a time.
 Mr. Wills : If the hon. Gentleman will be patient a little longer, I will come precisely to the state of the budget. 49
 Mr. Wills : I apologise, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Wills : That is right, and I agree with my hon. Friend. Taking hard decisions and making hard choices is the mark
 51
 Mr. Wills : If the hon. Gentleman will bear with me, I will not give way. I have had 18 years to listen to him; he should give me 10 minutes. 50
 Mr. Michael Wills  (North Swindon) : The debate is of great interest to my constituency, especially to the 6,000 lone parents and 22,000 pensioners in Swindon, who overwhelmingly voted Labour on 1 May because they knew that a Labour Government would provide them with the opportunities denied to them by the previous Government. "The natural state should be the two-adult family." "Single parent families are more likely to be caught up in crime." "since the state is educating, housing and feeding their children, the nature of parental responsibility may seem less immediate." "must examine all our policies to ensure that we are reinforcing rather than weakening a sense of responsibility",
 Mr. Wills : I thank the hon. Lady for her intervention, but I am afraid that she did not hear what I said. I asked what you ever did to give teeth to measures to protect people with disabilities and your answer said it all.
 Mr. Wills : I fail to understand what the hon. Gentleman is talking about. What does he mean by failing? We have been in government six months and we have already done more than the Tories did in 18 years. The word failure comes ill from the hon. Gentleman's lips.
 Mr. Wills : I will give way when I have made my point about the mis-selling of private personal pensions.
 Mr. Wills : The hon. Gentleman has misunderstood the difference between a tax and a reform of the corporate tax system. If he would like to have the difference explained to him, I shall be happy to do so after the debate. 52
 Mr. Wills : If the hon. Gentleman will answer my question, I will give way to him.
 Mr. Wills : At risk of carrying on, I said that there will be no cuts for lone parents who are in receipt of those benefits. Before the election and just last week, I met lone parents on the most rundown estate in my constituency. The message is that they want child care more than anything else, both those who want to go into work and those who merely want some break from their existing burdens. That is the truth. That is what they want and that is what we are delivering. If the hon. Gentleman—
 Mr. Wills : I am sorry the hon. Gentleman did not understand what I was saying. I made it clear that the Government had to set clear priorities for how they would spend a finite sum of money. They have made it clear—and I support them—that their priority must be work and the choices and opportunities that flow from it. I hope that that is clear. We have to help people back into work.
 Mr. Wills : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for that intervention, and for making the same mistake as I did. I can only tell him to wait and see.
 Mr. Wills : I was under the impression when I gave way that the hon. Gentleman was about to answer my question rather than to ask me one. He obviously does not know whether he welcomes £300 million being spent on child care. Perhaps he can give us an answer when we next debate the subject.
 Mr. Mike Hall  (Weaver Vale) rose—
 Mr. Mike Hall rose—
 Mr. Hancock : Most of my constituents will be delighted that the Secretary of State shares their opinion and not the opinion of the Princess Royal, which was that the ship should be scuttled. Indeed, they have made a strong case for Britannia to go to her natural home, in Portsmouth. However, if the ship is to be kept as a national treasure, I suggest that that can be done only if the Government keep some control over her by providing a dowry to ensure that the ship is restored in the way most people would expect her to be.
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : On the euro and the single currency, does my right hon. Friend agree that, if we lose control of our currency, we lose control of our economy, and if we lose control of our economy, we lose control of our country? Bearing in mind the fact that our interests in the United Kingdom are not always those of the rest of Europe, would not we be surrendering any right or ability to influence policy in respect of the UK's interests?
 Mr. Gibb : I shall leave hon. Members to draw their own conclusions on that question.
 Mr. Nick Gibb  (Bognor Regis and Littlehampton) : I am looking forward to the hon. Member for Don Valley (Caroline Flint) joining the Government Front Bench, as is her wish. I believe that there will be a vacancy there shortly. "A strong society cannot be built on soft choices. It means fundamental reform of our welfare state, of the deal between citizen and society." The Times "The commission, established under Martin Taylor by Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, to look at reforming tax and benefits, may well examine the integration of tax and NIC." The Sunday Times "The aim will be to save billions in administration costs, cut down on people simultaneously paying tax with one hand and receiving benefits in the other…Tony Blair has agreed that Brown should `consider all options' for reform, including ultimately merging the separate tax and benefit operations into a new streamlined system." Financial Times "Mr. Taylor's appointment was welcomed by business, with tax experts predicting that the Barclays chief could recommend radical reform, including full-scale merger of the tax and benefit systems. Mr. Taylor did little to dampen expectations". Financial Times "As head of the government's taskforce, his job"— "appears 'almost infinite in scope'". 63 "it is quite important to realise that the fact there are two systems is not an accident. It is because it reflects the fact that they are pursuing different objectives to some extent". "Is the option of a full integration"— "being considered seriously by the Taylor Committee?" "A complete integration, no."
 Mr. Gibb : I am grateful for my hon. Friend's intervention. It is true that there are members of the Government who would like to see a fundamental review of the tax and benefits system and radical reforms emanating from the Government, but the fact is that the Government are beginning to recognise that they will not get any radical reforms through the House because of Labour Back Benchers. "We have concluded that, to help people move from benefits to wages, nothing less than a comprehensive tax and benefit reform and the modernisation of the welfare state are now required."—[ Official Report 64
 Mr. Gibb : How does the hon. Lady envisage the abolition of tax credits for dividends paid to pension funds, which will extract £5 billion a year from our nation's private sector pension funds, helping people to enjoy their retirement?
 Mr. Gibb : How does the hon. Gentleman consider it to be friendly to future pensioners to support a Government who, through tax, will take £5 billion of assets from private pension funds each and every year?
 Mr. Gibb : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Nick Gibb  (Bognor Regis and Littlehampton) : I am grateful to you—I mean to the hon. Gentleman—for giving way. Is it not true that the present Government will never get any policies through the House which require hard choices because his hon. Friends will not allow it?
 Mr. Gibb : In preparing the report, what steps were taken to ensure that the first-hand experiences of the officers involved were reflected in that report? Is the Minister aware that those ex-prisoners of war, who served our country valiantly and selflessly during the last world war, feel strongly that they have been cheated and that they cannot get justice? Would it not be wiser to offer some consultation with them or, better still, to appoint an independent person to arbitrate on that matter?
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Following the actions of Welsh fanners in Holyhead last night, has the Secretary of State for Wales asked to make a statement to the House today? I make it plain that I cannot condone the actions of those farmers—we could never condone such illegal actions—but the Secretary of State should answer some pertinent questions about the problems that those farmers face.
 Mr. Nigel Griffiths : And we are going to ban them.
 The Minister for Competition and Consumer Affairs (Mr. Nigel Griffiths)   indicated dissent.
 Mr. Waterson : I thank the Minister for that answer. Will he confirm that, as long as there is a perceived threat in the region, this country will continue to maintain similar forces? Does he agree that the current regime in Iraq is all too willing to perceive as a sign of weakness any reduction in our forces or those of our allies in the area? That is another good reason for maintaining the current level of availability of British forces in the region.
15.  Mr Waterson : What is the level of Her Majesty's forces currently deployed in the Persian gulf. [16810]
 Mr.Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : The right hon. Lady mentioned that the Government are preparing a paper on the Post Office. Can she tell the House what her hon. Friend the Minister of State failed to tell the Select Committee on Trade and Industry recently—whether the Post Office will have the capacity, as a normal company would, to give its stockholders dividends rather than being subject to a negative external financing limit?
 Mr. Letwin : Would my hon. Friend care to join me in a speculative inquiry into whether being a lame duck is better or worse than being a drowning duck?
 Mr. Letwin : In the course of his speech, has my hon. Friend noticed that the Minister of State—until leaving the Chamber—was saying "Hear, hear" from a sedentary position and appearing to agree whole-heartedly with my hon. Friend's views?
 Mr. Letwin : In the light of that interesting answer, will the hon. Lady explain the Deputy Prime Minister's views on the matter?
 Mr. Letwin rose—
 Mr. Letwin : As the hon. Lady develops her interesting line of argument, will she explain how the imposition of a national minimum wage, which will exclude from work some of the lone parents of whom she talks by pricing them out of it, will assist them?
 Mr. Letwin : If the hon. Gentleman was not asleep during my speech, perhaps he would like to answer the question: does he deny the critique offered by the hon. Member for Hackney, North and Stoke Newington (Ms Abbott), who has suggested that it is not a proper child care strategy but one that will fail?
 Mr. Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : The essence of this debate can be rapidly summed up. There are many Conservatives who welcomed the radicalism with which we believed the Government were entering on these matters, and who whole-heartedly accepted the good intent behind much that the Government are trying to do. Probably all of us welcome the idea of people moving back into work—of people moving off welfare—and the idea of finding suitable long-term pension arrangements. These are all common aims in our parties. 67
 Mr. Letwin : Is the hon. Gentleman aware of the cash flow effects of the Government's change in corporation tax? Does he deny the analysis that the change will cost the whole of British industry about £2 billion?
 Mr. Letwin : Will the hon. Gentleman explain how he believes that failing 95 per cent. of the lone parents to whom letters were sent constitutes keeping promises to 100 per cent. of them?
 Mr. Letwin : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that such expenditure would be valid if it worked, but invalid if it did not? Does he further agree that the evidence of the 95 per cent. of people who did not succeed in getting a job after they received letters suggests that it did not work?
 Mr. Letwin : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Letwin : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman is about to say that, according to the Government's own recent production, "The Modernisation of Britain's Tax and Benefit System", 26 per cent. of those interviewed mentioned the issue of jobs being temporary, and 23 per cent. mentioned worries about reclaiming benefit after a short period of work, as reasons for not taking work.
 Mr. Letwin : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for giving way as it gives me the opportunity, through him, to ask the Secretary of State a question that many of us tried to ask during her speech. Does she have any evidence that even one person among that 5 per cent. who found work would not have found work in any case?
 Mr. Paul Tyler  (North Cornwall) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I do not want in any way to quibble with your response to the hon. Member for Ribble Valley (Mr. Evans), but I would want to raise under Standing Order No. 24 the issue that has been concerning us overnight. It is a matter not just for Welsh Ministers but for the whole of the rural community, the whole of the United Kingdom and all of us who represent agricultural
 20
 Mr. Pike : I thank my hon. Friend for that answer. Can he assure me that the review is as vigorous as possible, to ensure both that every possible piece of land and building that can be disposed of in the new defence situation that we are facing can be sold and the money realised for the nation and that use of large parts of our land will not be blocked?
7.  Mr. Pike : What estimates his Department has made of the potential for disposal of its land and buildings over the next five years. [16800]
 Mr. Viggers : Can the Minister give an undertaking that, when defence land is released, the broader range of issues will be taken into account? I think especially of land in my constituency at Royal Clarence yard, where the Ministry of Defence is proposing to retain nine and a half acres, which is central to the millennium project for the development of Portsmouth harbour. Will he ensure that the Ministry of Defence is given an assurance by Government generally that broader interests are taken into account?
 Mr. Phil Hope  (Corby) : The hon. Gentleman talks about the pensions review, but does he not agree that, in cutting value added tax on fuel, eliminating the gas levy and announcing increases for winter fuel of £20 to all pensioner households and £50 for those on income support, we have done more for pensioners in the past six months than the Conservatives did in 18 years?
 Mr. Hope : Does the hon. Gentleman agree with the hon. Member for Chingford and Woodford Green (Mr. Duncan Smith) that the attendance allowance should be abolished, as stated in the No Turning Back group's pamphlet on benefits?
 Mr. Philip Hammond  (Runnymede and Weybridge) : Did the hon. Gentleman have an opportunity, during that dinner with senior members of the CBI, to discuss their outright opposition to the minimum wage?
 Mr. Spring : My hon. Friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green (Mr. Duncan Smith) rightly takes the view that there should be a considered overall reform of the welfare state, without the huffing and puffing that we had from the Labour party while it was in opposition. Before the election, the Secretary of State made the most savage attacks on the previous Government because she felt that that would ensure votes and support. In practice, people are now turning against her. 46
 Mr. Spring : Without proper control groups to make the comparisons, it is not possible to answer that question, but the spin doctoring nevertheless continued. It is to the Labour party's shame that it indulges in that practice.
 Mr. Spring : With respect, it is Labour Back Benchers who feel affronted and who are talking to the press and appearing on radio and television to condemn the actions of Labour Front Benchers. The idea that it is Conservative Members who have created this situation is absurd.
 Mr. Richard Spring  (West Suffolk) : I am grateful to have the opportunity to speak this afternoon. I apologise for arriving late for the debate; I was detained on constituency business. "As a Labour supporter for the whole of my adult life—I am now 66 years of age—I am quite frankly disgusted by the plans to `Crack-down' upon the disabled members of our community. I firmly believe that you have lost sight of the basic philosophy of Labour, that of caring…recent announcements of introducing taxation to Disability benefits have made me decide to write to you to protest most vehemently." "Now, we read that she is likely to have her pitifully small benefit taxed."
 Mr. Spring : My hon. Friend is entirely correct. We now know that, whenever Ministers are embarrassed, as over the formula one fiasco or the issue of benefit for single mothers, they are not willing to appear on television, despite supposedly being in favour of open government. That is precisely why there is so much anxiety among Labour Back Benchers and disability organisations.
 Mr. Spring : I remind the hon. Lady that unemployment in countries such as France and Germany is 12 or 13 per cent. What hope is there for young people entering the labour force when one quarter of people aged under 25 in France, one third of young people in Italy and about 40 per cent. of young people in Spain are unemployed? Such figures result directly from the imposition of artificial barriers to job creation, with which the Government intend to destroy employment. "People are cynical about politics and distrustful of political promises. That is hardly surprising."
 Mr. Spring : I am grateful to my hon. Friend, who is absolutely correct: there is no absolute evidence to prove that, as a result of the right hon. Lady's manoeuvrings in this direction, one extra job has been created. 47
 Mr. Spring : The point is that control groups are needed to measure such things accurately.
 Mr. Spring : I want to touch specifically on what is in the minds of people such as my constituents. I want to deal with the way in which the Government are handling the issue in light of their promises before the election. That is the issue at stake and the Under-Secretary of State, of all people, should know perfectly well that genuine anxiety is felt by many thousands of people who, as a result of the nods and winks by Labour when in opposition, now feel that they have been let down. 45
 Mr. Key : On how many occasions since 1 May has the chain of command's responsibility for military discipline been the subject of intervention by Ministers, including the Lord Chancellor?
 Mr. Sheldon : There is a big difference between the way in which auditors are employed by the National Audit
 18
 Mr. Robert Sheldon (Chairman of the Public Accounts Commission) : The National Audit Office does not employ staff as lawyers, although 10 graduates in law are employed by its auditors. The National Audit Office obtains legal advice as required from various sources including commercial firms and the Treasury Solicitor.
9.  Mr. Syms : If he will make a statement on the future of the royal yacht Britannia. [16802]
 Mr. Syms : May I press the Secretary of State further? When will he come to the House with a decision?
 7
 Mr. Russell Brown  (Dumfries) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Burns : Withdraw!
 Mr. Burns : Will the Secretary of State give way?
 Mr. Burns : My hon. Friend talks about spin doctoring. Is he aware—I am sure he is—that the Secretary of State, in her infamous press release, failed to point out that, of the 8,600 or so people who were written to, almost 75 per cent. did not bother to reply? Of the 433 people who found work, the 13 in east Sheffield are in their 30s or late 30s—they had obviously wanted to stay at home until their children were of school age, then sought jobs and got them. It was the interviews on the "Today" programme.—
 Mr. Burns : Does the Home Secretary appreciate that, in a constituency with four GEC companies in it, a distinction must be drawn between weapons and weapons systems that are produced for the bona fide defence of a country from external attack and weapons such as land mines, that are universally condemned?
 Mr. Simon Burns  (West Chelmsford) : The Secretary of State said that the Tories got it wrong. If that is correct, why has she now decided to implement one of the policies which, according to her, the Tories got wrong—the cuts in lone-parent benefit, which the right hon. Lady constantly condemned at the time and said that she would not implement? Will she once and for all tell the House what has gone through her mind to make her change her policy, announced last winter, that she would not implement those cuts?
 Mr. Burns : I am grateful to the right hon. Lady for giving way again. Now will she answer the question? Why is she now implementing the cuts that we proposed, which she condemned as wrong?
 Mr. Burns : Answer the question now.
 The Minister for School Standards (Mr. Stephen Byers) : I am glad to have the opportunity to deal with the question of education in the London borough of Hackney. I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Hackney, South and Shoreditch (Mr. Sedgemore) on securing the opportunity to debate the issue this evening. I also congratulate him on being a constant supporter of the Government's decision to establish the improvement team and on being an assiduous attender at the various meetings that have been held to consider the way forward for education in Hackney in these most difficult times. 135 "The current position is unacceptable. Some significant statutory duties are not being met. What needs to be done is, in fact, very clear. If Hackney children are to realise their potential, then the Authority must, above all else, act to raise standards in literacy and numeracy and focus on the needs of those pupils whose first language is not English". "The LEA is in a state of disarray." 136 137 138
 Mr. McCabe : When considering the future of RAF heavy lift, will my hon. Friend ensure that adequate attention is paid to preserving aircraft that have served us well, particularly as we approach the millennium?
 Mr. Dalyell : Roughly how many people and how much money are involved?
 Mr. Loughton : I was entirely confused by what the hon. Member for South Ribble (Mr. Borrow) said. He missed one fundamental point. One reason why businesses would not, perhaps, welcome a return to the link with local rates is that business men do not get a vote. Businesses have no power or authority over local authorities, whereas local voters do. That is the fundamental difference.
 Mr. Tim Loughton  (East Worthing and Shoreham) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
12.  Mrs. Mahon : What steps his Department is taking to improve levels of recruitment from the United Kingdom's ethnic minorities. [16806]
 Mrs. Mahon : Does my hon. Friend agree that the number of men and women from our ethnic minorities who serve in the armed forces is disappointingly low? I think that it is about 1 per cent. I welcome the Army's new recruitment initiative. What are the other two services doing?
 Mrs. Browning : I will in a second. I want to make progress. "I…refer to the stopping of the Disability Living Allowance, this money is a lifeline to disabled persons such as myself. I really believe that if this Bill is passed it will cause vast problems for disabled people". "There can be no doubt that the peace of mind of millions of disabled people will have been seriously threatened by the government's proposals. "I have…been a member of the Labour party for over fourteen years. I have to say that I feel a sense of betrayal by the party over this issue, as do, I am sure, many other disabled and chronically sick people." "Will you please read this letter. I have written to express my hurt and sense of betrayal". "I choose to use my benefits to employ a private cleaning firm to blitz my Home every few weeks and to make a relative an allowance to wash my hair, cut my nails etc. My Husband resigned a highly responsible job and took less hours and pay to be more available to me and I have a very supportive Daughter. I will not have strangers attending to my personal needs. My body may not be of much use but my brain still functions and above all I still have my pride."
 Mrs. Browning : The hon. Lady may mouth all she likes. I am determined to fight this on behalf of my
 71
 Mrs. Angela Browning  (Tiverton and Honiton) : The debate has focused primarily on lone parents and pensions. People with disabilities have also been mentioned, and, as the Conservative Front-Bench spokesman on disability, I shall focus my comments on disability. 70 "There will be no increase in the basic or top rates of…tax." "I pledge to Britain a government which shares their hopes, which understands their fears"
 Mrs. Browning : Those benefits are there now. Labour Members should take a careful look at the benefits that were introduced and secured up until 1 May. Now, we are receiving letter after letter from worried, frightened people— [Interruption.]
 Mrs. Browning : I have every idea, and I say to the hon. Gentleman, as a carer for someone with this benefit, I will fight it, fight it and fight it on behalf of people who are vulnerable and who depend on that benefit.  [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
 Mrs. Browning : We will support Labour policies such as the move to enable more people with disabilities to get back into work. However, the Government are promising to do that while also threatening to remove the mobility component of the DLA—
 Mrs. Browning : If I am scaremongering, when I sit down in four minutes' time the Minister will have the opportunity to say categorically that what I have said is wrong and that the Government will not do it. The hon. Gentleman shakes his head—I hope that his hon. Friend the Minister will not disappoint him tonight.
 Mrs. Browning : It certainly is unbelievable that so many organisations are so concerned that they feel they have to write to Members of Parliament. "Organisations which had met the Department in May"— "believed they would be discussing findings from the…review." "Britain will be better with new Labour." "New Labour is the political arm of none other than the British people as a whole. Our values are the same: the equal worth of all, with no one cast aside; fairness and justice within strong communities." 73
 Mrs. Browning : My answer is to quote from correspondence I have received from organisations that
 72 "Disability organisations are concerned about the lack of clarity and openness about consultation and decision-making processes around these reviews. On disability benefits, there will not be any Green Paper or formal consultation before key decisions are likely to be made. A series of seminars to discuss options on 'managing' expenditure on disability benefits have been arranged by some disability organisations at the request of Baroness Hollis. It is important to note that the disability organisations attending these seminars do not regard them in any way as part of a formal consultation process." "RNIB have never before sent out a briefing to MPs containing this level of detail. This reflects the seriousness with which we regard the threat to benefits which provide a vital lifeline to those who are often amongst your poorest constituents, and those who seldom make their feelings known to their Member of Parliament."
 Mrs. Browning   rose—
 Mrs. Angela Browning  (Tiverton and Honiton) : We introduced the Disability Discrimination Act 1995. I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman is not prepared to recognise that.
 Mrs. Anne Campbell  (Cambridge) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mrs. Anne Campbell : Does my right hon. Friend agree that, when the Conservatives were in government, all they did was to chastise and castigate lone parents? This Government are presenting them with real opportunities. Will she join me in congratulating the Cambridge benefits agency on being close to getting its 100th lone parent back into work?
 Miss McIntosh : Is any of those people sufficiently qualified in public procurement contracts for tender under European Union regulations? Was any of them consulted before the contract was awarded for the refurbishment of Canary Wharf prior to the recent Anglo-French summit?
35.  Miss McIntosh : How many lawyers are employed by the National Audit Office. [16832]
 Miss Anne McIntosh  (Vale of York) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I fear that there may have been a misunderstanding in the reply of the right hon. Member for Ashton-under-Lyne (Mr. Sheldon) to my question during Question Time.
14.  Laura Moffatt : What steps his Department is taking to expand employment opportunities for women in the armed forces. [16809]
 Laura Moffatt : I thank my hon. Friend for that answer. Does he agree that women have always proved themselves—especially in Bosnia, as I have witnessed—able to take part in the armed forces? Does he agree also that women are capable of taking part in combat roles in the Royal Navy? Does not that put paid to the claim that women are not suitable and that such roles are suitable only for the chaps? Thank you.
 Ms Margaret Hodge  (Barking) : The hon. Gentleman has been speaking for 20 minutes and, apart from attacking the fact that the Government are reviewing the welfare system, he has said absolutely nothing about the Opposition's views on welfare reform. At the very least, will he say whether he supports the Government's proposal on the new deal for lone parents?
 Mrs. Roe : I am grateful for that reply. Does the Minister envisage that Royal Engineers personnel will play a more active role on the ground in mine clearing overseas?
2.  Mrs. Roe : If he will make a statement on the  (a) (b)
 Mrs. Teresa Gorman  (Billericay) : Could it not be that, while the Minister for Welfare Reform said:
 "Women with children of school age should be under an obligation to look for work", "Compulsion is absolutely not the issue."
 Mrs. Gorman : If what the right hon. Lady is saying is correct, why have more than 100 Labour Back Benchers signed an early-day motion and written letters privately condemning her policies?
 Mrs. Gorman : Will the Secretary of State give way?
 Mrs. Gorman : Is it not true that representatives of disability organisations appeared on radio and television at the weekend to express their concern, but that the Secretary of State had something better to do, even though she had arranged to appear? She should tell us what was so important that she could not face those people.
 Mrs. Gorman : Is the hon. Gentleman not aware that the reason the previous Government introduced the uniform business rate was that Labour councils all over the country were doubling or trebling business rates year by year and using them as a milch cow to fund the introduction of their extravagant general policies?
 Mrs. Gorman : The hon. Gentleman paints an appalling picture of the alleged state in which we left the economy. What does he make of the fact that 40 per cent. of all Japanese investment overseas is placed in Britain; that German motor car manufacturers have moved here because of our better labour relations and stable currency; and that even the French are moving their high-tech industries across the channel—
 Mrs. Teresa Gorman  (Billericay) : Is it not the case that small firms are not universally payers of low wages and the ladder upon which very many unskilled and young people get their first opportunity of a job? It is those groups, which the Labour party makes such a fuss about helping, that will be damaged by the minimum wage policy.
 Mrs. May : The Minister has said much about the new deal, about which we also heard from the Secretary of State for Social Security and Minister for Women. Is he going to answer the questions that were posed by my hon. Friends the Members for Chingford and Woodford Green (Mr. Duncan Smith) and for Tiverton and Honiton (Mrs. Browning) relating to disability benefits? In doing so, perhaps the Minister could explain how it will help people if the Government pay disability benefits to local authorities and not to individuals with disabilities.
 Mrs. Theresa May  (Maidenhead) : Did the right hon. Lady have the opportunity this morning, as I did, to listen to the radio phone-in programme on welfare benefits? A single mother rang to say that, although the Government claim to be doing so much to get lone parents into work, if she were to take temporary work over the Christmas period to earn money to provide for her children, she would go back on to lone-parent benefit at the reduced rate. How would the right hon. Lady answer that lone parent?
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley : I welcome the Minister's comments. I urge him to meet the chairman of the Greenwich foundation for the Royal Naval college to discuss the options for ethnic minority recruitment. Will he also reassure us that the delay and the buck passing will come to an end and that the outstanding questions will be resolved so that that jewel in the nation's heritage is properly established and occupied in time for the millennium?
 Mrs. Bottomley : Yes, it does.
 Ann Clwyd : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend for that answer. May I put it to him, however, that since the so-called dialogue began, GEC has continually expanded its defence manufacturing and increased its exports to Indonesia—a country with one of the worst human rights records? Is there any point in this dialogue if that is the result?
33.  Ann Clwyd : What assessment he has made of the impact of the contacts between the Church's ethical investment working group and GEC on GEC's arms exporting policy. [16829]
8.  Ann Clwyd : What assessment he has made of the cost to Her Majesty's Government of NATO expansion. [16801]
 Ann Clwyd : I thank my right hon. Friend for that answer, but I have been asking the question for some time and I would have expected the Government to have been able to give an assessment of the costs of NATO expansion by now. Can he assure us that the cost of expansion will be met from the current defence budget and that he will not be asking for an extra penny from what many of us already consider to be much too large a budget?
 Caroline Flint  (Don Valley) : How many people suffered the abuse of pensions mis-selling under the previous Government? The hon. Gentleman is outlining duties; what duty and responsibility did the Tory Government have to prevent that?
 Caroline Flint : That is not the Government's fault. We all have such cases.
 Caroline Flint : There is no evidence that a national minimum wage, which will be set at a reasonable rate by the Low Pay Commission, will put people out of work. Conservatives argued that equal pay legislation would lead to women not taking up jobs, but that did not come to pass. As has been recognised by employers, the national minimum wage will raise the floor on wages so that
 61
 Caroline Flint : I am sure that the hon. Gentleman is rising to say something.
 Caroline Flint : The Deputy Prime Minister supports my policy and I am sure that he will be able to answer any question that the hon. Gentleman may like to put. I am here to represent Back Benchers today—I might like to represent the Front Bench in the near future.
 Caroline Flint : That is why we need a national minimum wage. It would seem strange to promote a policy that suggests that someone should not be better off in work than on benefit. 62
 Caroline Flint : I believe that that fiscal reform helps to reform the corporate tax system. We are setting out to ensure that the many people with private and personal pensions are protected by safeguards that guarantee that their pensions are in the hands of those who will invest them wisely. That will sit nicely alongside a number of reviews that will take the pension arrangements for everyone into the 21st century. 60
 Caroline Flint  (Don Valley) : I am very interested in what the hon. Member for Newbury (Mr. Rendel) said, but I do not need to take lessons from the Liberal party, which voted against the windfall levy and therefore would have put a stop to the new deal programme. It takes some brass neck for Conservative Opposition spokespersons to attack new Labour's strategies to tackle the reform of the welfare state after the disaster that they left after 18 years of Tory mismanagement and lack of imagination. 59
 Ms Harman : No, I shall not give way to the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member for Northavon (Mr. Webb) asked his question in a much more intelligent way than the hon. Gentleman ever could. 41
 Ms Harman : It is a choice that married women who are not trapped on benefit make. Half of married women with children under five work, which means that half of married women with children do not. Only a quarter of lone parents with children under five work. The difference in the participation rate in the labour market, between lone parents and their married counterparts with children of the same age, reflects the fact that the benefit system and the lack of child care preclude lone parents from making the choice. They do not have the choice of going to work. They can only stay at home and live on benefit. Our child care expansion and the welfare-to-work programme will, for the first time, give lone parents a choice. It is a choice that previously has never been open to them.
 Ms Harman : There is no such thing for this Government as "regardless of what the manifesto said". We are in government to implement our manifesto. People know that our manifesto said that SERPS would remain an option for those who wanted to remain in it—
 Ms Harman : Indeed, or anyone else—is breathtaking. 42
 Ms Harman : The hon. Gentleman talks about a "miserly" £190 million, but that is £190 million more to help with fuel bills than his Government ever gave. He voted against our reduction in VAT from 8 per cent. to 5 per cent.
 Ms Harman : We said in our manifesto that SERPS would remain an option for those who wanted to remain in it. 43
 Ms Harman : I shall not give way to the hon. Gentleman, who seeks to intervene on the subject of pensioners, unless he explains whether he still believes that he was right to insist on voting for VAT on pensioners' gas and electricity bills. Will he include that point?
 Ms Harman : I have answered the hon. Gentleman's question. We said that we would have a welfare-to-work approach to tackle the poverty of lone parents and their social exclusion and that of their children. The previous Government proposed no opportunities programmes for lone mothers.
 Ms Harman : I have answered the question. We said time and again that our approach to lone mothers would be to help them to work, so that they could be better off than they would ever be on benefit. 34
 Ms Harman : The Tories got it wrong on lone mothers, because their proposals left 1 million lone mothers bringing up 2 million children on income support, and offered no help or opportunities for them to work, despite a growing economy.
 The Secretary of State for Social Security and Minister for Women (Ms Harriet Harman) : I beg to move, To leave out from "House" to the end of the Question, and to add instead thereof:
 "congratulates the Government for the progress that has already been made on reforming the welfare state to tackle social exclusion and welfare dependency; backs the Government's strategy of offering hope, opportunity and a better standard of living for people through its welfare to work programmes for lone parents, disabled people and those with long-standing illness, young unemployed people and the long-term unemployed, and the National Childcare Strategy, in contrast to the previous Government's approach of writing millions of people off to a life dependent on benefit; welcomes the Government's determination to ensure security in retirement for today's and tomorrow's pensioners through the pensions review and the action the Government has already taken to get help to Britain's pensioners, particularly the poorest pensioners, by cutting VAT on fuel and through the £20 winter fuel payment to pensioner households and the £50 winter fuel payment to pensioner households on Income Support; and congratulates the Government for keeping its promises and delivering its manifesto commitments to the British people.". 33
 Ms Harman : We do not believe that the changes will be a disincentive to work for lone parents; if we did, we would not be introducing them. Our approach to lone parents is to help them to become better off, by working, than they could ever be on benefits.
 Ms Harman : I will not give way to the hon. Member for West Chelmsford (Mr. Burns); I have given way to him twice to answer the same question. I give way to his hon. Friend the Member for Maidenhead (Mrs. May).
 Ms Harman : The hon. Lady speaking out on behalf of Labour Back Benchers is a touching spectacle, but they are probably more than capable of speaking out for themselves.
 Ms Harman : That is why the people in my hon. Friend's constituency will welcome our proposals for a minimum wage and a working families tax credit to make work pay.
 Ms Harman : I congratulate not only the Cambridge benefits agency, but my hon. Friend, who had a role in pioneering the ideas behind this programme of bringing together all the advice and information about jobs, training and child care, to enable lone parents to move off benefit and into work, where they can be better off.
 Ms Harman : My hon. Friend raises some interesting points, which we shall make part of our housing benefit
 36
 Ms Harman : No lone parent currently in receipt of income support will have their benefit affected. However, there will be a welfare-to-work programme—and I know that the hon. Gentleman agrees with us on this—because the best way to tackle poverty among lone parents and their families is to ensure that they are much better off in work than they could ever be on benefit.
 Ms Harman : My hon. Friend is absolutely right: the housing benefit system locks people into dependence on benefit and deters people from working. I and Ministers in the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions have said that, in reviewing the social security system, we shall examine the role of housing benefit to ensure that the housing support system accords with our priorities: that people have every incentive to work and do not remain—as they were under the Tories for 18 years—trapped on benefit when they want to work and be independent.
 Ms Harman : I have given way about 15 times. I intend to press on with my speech. The hon. Gentleman should try again later, when I have made some progress. He might need the time to think up a sensible question. 38 "It feels good to be back at work. I haven't had a proper job for 14 years and I wouldn't have had the confidence to go out and look if it wasn't for the New Deal."
 Ms Harman rose—
 Ms Harman : My hon. Friend makes a point about people in his constituency without work. The economy may be growing, but some people in my constituency and in his constituency are simply left behind. In my constituency, some young people do not have the proper skills and educational qualifications to allow them to apply for the jobs that are available. Some lone mothers do not have child care or help to enable them to take the jobs that are available, and there are people who have been made redundant in their late 40s and who think that no employer will ever look at them again because they have been written off. 37
 Ms Harman : I give way to my hon. Friend the Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner).
 Ms Harman : I am not misleading the House. The hon. Gentleman is having difficulty understanding this. The local officials were collecting the information. There is an academic programme of evaluation. That is how it is done.
 Ms Harman : After 18 years of Conservative government, there was no programme for opportunities for lone mothers, only a programme of criticising them from the conference platform in Brighton and Blackpool. The hon. Gentleman is not able to listen to what I am telling him about the evaluation. We are having an evaluation, where we compare the eight pilot areas with six matching control areas.
 Ms Harman : It has not. It was implemented at the outset.
 Ms Harman : No, I shall not give way. 40
 Ms Harman : I shall not give way to the hon. Lady, because it is clear that she is trying to speak up for the Government rather than the Opposition. I shall not give way to her while she seeks to play that role. Of course, the hon. Lady was never much in support of the Conservative party when it was in government. Perhaps she is following a familiar line.
 Mrs. Helen Brinton  (Peterborough) : I remind the hon. Gentleman of his celebrated comments in a pamphlet in 1993, when he suggested that disability living allowance should be means-tested. Does he write in one tone and talk in another?
 Jacqui Smith : I thank my hon. Friend for his assurance that this remains a priority, especially in the light of a survey of companies in my Redditch constituency with defence involvement, which suggested that, despite a reduction in their defence turnover, they believe that jobs could be preserved by defence diversification. What role will there be for the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency in the Government's plans for defence diversification? Will the Government learn from the experience of industries and other countries in that process?
6.  Jacqui Smith : If he will make a statement on the Government's plans for a defence diversification agency. [16799]
 Jacqui Smith  (Redditch) : Bearing in mind the fact that the Liberal Democrats opposed the windfall levy that has raised much of the money that can now be put into welfare improvements, how can the hon. Gentleman justify demands for even more expenditure?
 Jacqui Smith  (Redditch) : I shall be brief, so that other hon. Members can contribute to the debate.
 Jacqui Smith : No, I will not take an intervention from the hon. Lady, because she has only just turned up and I am short of time. 65
 Jacqui Smith : No, I am short of time. 66
 Mrs. Gilroy : The hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Syms) has just issued a plea for the south coast. It will not surprise my right hon. Friend if I rise to make a plea, backed by the representations, which I know that he has received, for Plymouth. I ask not only that the vessel be preserved but that, by means of a private finance initiative, she is kept in use. I hope that my right hon. Friend will give serious consideration to that idea, along with the other representations that he has received.
 Mr. Steve Webb  (Northavon) : Will the hon. Gentleman confirm that on the two occasions in this
 29
 Mr. Webb : Will the Secretary of State clarify one aspect of her approach to lone parents with young children? This is a genuine question. I am not clear about the right hon. Lady's position. Does she think that it is a valid choice for lone parents with young children to stay at home to look after their children?
 Mr. Webb : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Webb   rose—
 Mr. Webb : Will the hon. Lady confirm that the £50 figure that has been supplied to her is based on a sample of lone parents who are already working, not those who are not working? By definition, it was worth those lone parents' while working; if that were not true, they would not have had those jobs in the first place. As a group, they have, on average, lower child care costs and higher maintenance costs than other lone parents. Can the hon. Lady confirm that a lone parent who is currently unwaged would not, on average, receive £50 a week?
 Mr. Webb : I reassure my hon. Friend that it is not just the Secretary of State who holds such views. Is he aware that the Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment, the hon. Member for Newport, East (Mr. Howarth), said before the election that the abolition of one-parent benefit would be directly contrary to a rational welfare-to-work strategy?
 Sir Geoffrey Johnson Smith : Will the right hon. Gentleman confirm that there is no pressure on Poland, Hungary or the Czech Republic to spend huge sums trying to integrate into NATO? Will he also confirm that there is no pressure on us and no urgent requirement beyond what might be described as command and control procedures, integrated air defence and so on?
 Sir George Young : Where land and buildings are surplus to the Department's requirements, will the Minister liaise closely with planning departments, such as those in Hampshire, to see whether the sites could be put to housing use, thereby reducing the threat of green-field development on which so many of his hon. Friends seem hellbent?
 Sir George Young : The hon. Members for Cynon Valley (Ann Clwyd) and for Blaenau Gwent (Mr. Smith) asked about the size of the budget. Does the Secretary of State agree with what the Chancellor of the Exchequer said in last week's pre-Budget statement: that defence is not a priority?
 Mr. O'Neill : Does my hon. Friend agree that although the success of Britain has been considerable, as a share of the European total the number of jobs and projects that Britain has achieved has fallen, that it is essential that there should not be wasteful competition between the various parts of the United Kingdom, and that for that reason as much as for financial concerns we need a proper concordat between the English regional development agencies, when they arrive, and the Parliaments in Scotland and Wales and the Northern Ireland Development Office?
 Hon. Members : Hear, hear
 Several hon. Members rose—
 Several hon. Members rose—
 Mr. David Rendal  (Newbury) : Will the Minister confirm that hidden in half a sentence of his statement was a comment that made it clear that the thresholds at which employers pay national insurance will be frozen in cash terms? That means that he is introducing a real-terms increase in business taxes.
 Several hon. Members rose—
 The First Deputy Chairman : Order. The hon. Gentleman is going rather wide of the amendment. I note the examples that he has given. One or two examples are fine, but when he goes on at great length to give the Committee examples, he is going wide of the amendments before us.
 The First Deputy Chairman : With this, it will be convenient to discuss the following amendments: No. 4, in page 1, line 13, after '9', insert
 '(except Article 2 paragraph 22)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 19)'. 248 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 22)'. Appointments to Employment Committee— '.—Pursuant to Article 2 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, paragraph 19 (Cmd. 3780, age 31), Her Majesty's Government shall make appointments to the Employment Committee in consultation with employers' and workers' organisations.'. Social Chapter: Report to parliament '.—Her Majesty's Government shall make a half-yearly report to parliament on the implementation of Article 2, paragraph 22 of the Treaty setting out the United Kingdom legislation and employment implications arising from the new Employment Chapter and Social Chapter as agreed in the Amsterdam Treaty which shall be subject to resolution by each House of parliament.'.
 Mr. Tam Dalyellk  (Linlithgow) : What is my hon. Friend's policy on sand dunes and their preservation?
 Dr. Alan Whitehead  (Southampton, Test) : May I congratulate my right hon. Friend the Deputy Prime Minister on his settlement and, especially, on the changes that have been made to the standard spending assessment reckonings, along with the ending of the pernicious bed-night factor, which did one local authority very well?
 Dr. George Turner  (North-West Norfolk) : The hon. Gentleman will be aware that only yesterday I opened a new visitor centre at Titchwell which already attracts about 140,000 visitors a year. As well as their international importance for wildlife, these unique places on the north Norfolk coast are also some of the jewels in our tourist industry—Titchwell is a good example. I hope that the Minister will take account of that when allocating resources to protect this sort of environment.
 Dr. Ian Gibson  (Norwich, North) : I welcome the debate because I believe that an ecological disaster is waiting to happen, not just in Norfolk but throughout the world. Saltwater infusion causes the death of the freshwater fish on which the birds feed and breed. On the broads, the salination of the wetlands owing to higher sea levels is the cause of considerable anxiety.
 Dr. Lewis : I recognise my words of wisdom from the past, but I do not wish to be distracted from my words of wisdom in the present. On whether one has pooled sovereignty or lost virtue, the issue of NATO is a case in point. Nothing in the NATO treaty is irreversible, but the European treaties are irreversible. If there were a parallel with the NATO treaty, rather than a treaty from which one cannot withdraw or whose provisions cannot be reversed if they work out badly, I would be far more relaxed about these matters.
 Dr. Lewis : With respect, that is not true; we are being asked to abrogate each aspect of sovereignty and we either keep that function or lose it irretrievably. Just as there is more than one person in a country, so there is more than one opportunity to lose one's virginity irrecoverably. There is no chance to recover subsequently each one of the functions that is lost.
 Dr. Lewis : We could do that at present but, as I have explained, the idea of economic and monetary union is to have a situation in which we could no longer do that because we would be subject to the authority of a single Government. We would be in no position to abrogate any of the treaties that we had been drawn into over previous years. "The European Council shall decide on common strategies to be implemented by the Union in areas where the Member States have important interests in common. Common strategies shall set out their objectives, duration and the means to be made available by the Union and the Member States… The Council shall ensure the unity, consistency and effectiveness of action by the Union… Joint actions shall commit the Member States in the positions they adopt and in the conduct of their activity… The Council shall adopt common positions. Common positions shall define the approach of the Union to a particular matter of a geographical or thematic nature. Member States shall ensure that their national policies conform to the common positions."
 Dr. Julian Lewis  (New Forest, East) : I wish to touch on three topics—two briefly and one in more detail. I shall say a few words about economic and monetary union, then a few words about the human rights provision of article F.1 and, finally, and in more detail, I shall speak about a common foreign and security policy. 209 "an undertaking that, so long as the Labour party is in power, it will not be possible to find 14 EU states that will agree that the Government are in serious and persistent violation of democracy or of human rights."—[ 0fficial Report 210
 Dr. Lewis : As my hon. Friend observes, the Labour party is represented in this important Committee by fewer than the proverbial contents of a telephone box.
 Dr. Lewis : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. I can even name the day on which I became a Euro-sceptic: it was 22 March 1995. I read an article in  The Times "Santer seeks right to shape foreign policy for Europe". "Brussels should have the right to shape Europe's foreign and security policy, a power currently jealously guarded by the governments of the European Union's 15 member states, Jacques Santer, the President of the European Commission, said yesterday." "a strengthening of the European Commission as the guardian of the European treaties. He said the Commission should be given the right of initiative in foreign and security policy."
 Dr. Lewis : I agree with my hon. Friend, but I am not saying that that will not happen because the operative word in his intervention was "knowingly". The methods
 211 "I am now going to say something that will astonish you. The first step in the re-creation of the European family must be a partnership between France and Germany. In this way only can France recover the moral leadership of Europe." "Our constant aim must be to build and fortify the strength of UNO." "Under and within that world concept we must re-create the European family in a regional structure called, it may be, the United States of Europe…In all this urgent work, France and Germany must take the lead together. Great Britain, the British Commonwealth of Nations, mighty America, and I trust, Soviet Russia—for then indeed all would be well—must be the friends and sponsors of the new Europe and must champion its right to live and shine." "In order more effectively to achieve the objectives of this treaty, The Parties, separately and jointly by means of continuous and effective self-help and mutual aid, will maintain and develop their individual and collective capacity to resist armed attack." "The Parties agreed that an armed attack against one or more of them in Europe or North America shall be considered an attack against them all". "The Union shall set itself the following objectives: —to assert its identity on the international scene, in particular through the implementation of a common foreign and security policy including the progressive framing of a common defence policy". 212
 Dr. Lewis : My hon. Friend makes two points. I warmly remember our joint ventures against the unilateralist policies of the Labour party in the 1980s. I could not have had a more staunch colleague in those battles. He was from the front rank and he held ministerial office during that important period for NATO as a whole. He asked about the pooling of sovereignty. I have another conceptual problem about that which is analogous to the one about closer political union without ever having a united political society. One cannot pool sovereignty any more than one can pool virginity. One either has it or has lost it. In the context of NATO, one must ask whether the loss of sovereignty is parallel to the loss of virtue.
 Dr. Fox : What do the Secretary of State and the Chancellor of the Exchequer expect to happen to unemployment in Scotland over the coming year? Following the job losses at Wrangler, Pringle, Grampian Brands, Telecom Sciences and others, who else will be joining the dole queue to satisfy the Chancellor's commitment to preparing for economic and monetary union?
 Dr. Lynda Clark : I am grateful for my hon. Friend's assurances in relation to adult students. I am particularly concerned about the situation of students from low-income families. Can the Minister tell us what policies there are to assist such students?
 Mr. Godman : Is my hon. Friend aware that there is serious concern in Gourock about the management and development of the company under the regime of Admiral Rankin and Captain Simpkin and that the two vessels which operate the Gourock-Dunoon service are, in shipping terms, very elderly ladies and should be replaced long before 2002?
 Mr. Ancram : Why were these important and totally foreseeable inward investment issues not resolved before the devolution referendum, which has given them such unhelpful exposure? Does the hon. Gentleman agree that the unseemly Cabinet row that is now raging is very damaging to inward investment not only in Scotland but in the rest of the United Kingdom? Does he share my fear that if his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State and his colleagues in the same Cabinet find it so difficult to agree on such matters it will be well nigh impossible in the future for a Scottish Parliament, a Welsh Assembly and a queue of English regions to do so? Is that what his right hon. Friend meant by devolution strengthening the United Kingdom?
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (North Essex) : On that point—
 Miss Begg : I am sure that the constituents who have written to me describing the misery that they have
 150
 Madam Speaker : Come on, I want a question.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Now that the hon. Member for Sutton and Cheam (Mr. Burstow), the Liberal
 168
 Madam Speaker : Thank you. We now come to the statement on social security uprating.
 Madam Speaker : Order. That was an interesting contribution, and would have been so in a debate, but there was not a question in it. If the Minister would like to make some comments, of course I shall allow him to do so, but I want questions from other hon. Members.
 Madam Speaker : Order. I have listened very carefully to what the hon. Member has said. Of course, I must give my decision without giving any reason. I do not consider that the matter that he has raised is appropriate for discussion under Standing Order No. 24. I cannot therefore submit the application to the House.
 Madam Speaker : I understand that a Green Paper has been issued. It is perfectly in order for such a statement to be made outside the House. On other matters, I refer the hon. Gentleman to the reply that I gave yesterday.
 Madam Speaker : I would look very favourably on such a debate, but I have to tell the hon. Gentleman and the House that I do not select the subjects. That is done by ballot. However, the hon. Gentleman must get his application in tonight.
 Mr. Alan Clark : In considering disbursement of money from the Scottish Office, will the Secretary of State recall that in the entire county of Sutherland there are now fewer than 2,000 people engaged in agriculture and country occupations while in the city of which the right hon. Gentleman represents a part there are 82,000 registered drug addicts? Which section of society does he think is more deserving of reward from the public purse?
 Mr. Alan Simpson  (Nottingham, South) : I congratulate my right hon. Friend the Deputy Prime Minister. Will he confirm that Nottingham, which becomes a unitary authority this coming year, will not now be faced with the decision to make £13.5 million-worth of cuts so as to reduce the council tax? Will he further confirm that when responsibilities for staff are transferred from the county council to the city—the staff will do the same job in the same place but receive a different pay cheque—it will not be assumed to be facing increases of only half the rate of inflation that would have been allowed under the county council?
 Mr. Alasdair Morgan : Given that Locate in Scotland is one of the most successful inward investment agencies in Europe, will the Minister explain why new rules are necessary at this stage? Furthermore, as Scotland usually competes not with the north-east of England but with the Czech Republic or the Irish Republic, is there not a danger that new rules will reduce the total amount of inward investment into the United Kingdom rather than transfer it to somewhere else in the United Kingdom?
35.  Mr. Mackinlay : If she will take steps to increase the time available for private Members' Bills. [17127]
 Mr. Mackinlay : Does my right hon. Friend realise that that is a very disappointing reply, bearing in mind the fact that we were elected as new Labour— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Robathan : Does the right hon. Lady agree that, in a parliamentary democracy, the Prime Minister is accountable to Parliament? Did she see yesterday's report in  The Times
32.  Mr. Robathan : What plans she has to review the arrangements for Prime Minister's questions. [17123]
 Mr. Andrew Rowe  (Faversham and Mid-Kent) : The Minister may know that I have always been rather in favour of a minimum income scheme. One of the disadvantages of the idea is that it involves a minimum wage at some point. Now that the Government have decided that we shall have a minimum wage, will the Minister look carefully at the advantages of a minimum income scheme? 182
2.  Mr. Welsh : How many Scottish universities he has visited since 1 May to discuss higher education provision in Scotland. [17091]
 Mr. Welsh : The Government claim that nobody should be deterred from higher education because of financial circumstances. Why, since the abolition of maintenance grants and the introduction of tuition fees—in addition to student loans—have applications for universities fallen by about 10 per cent.? Will the Government now abandon that short-sighted and disastrous policy?
 Mr. Steen : Because of the misdemeanours of one or two Members of Parliament, there has been an understandable push for greater transparency when allowances are claimed from the Fees Office. However, is the Leader of the House aware that this has resulted in a plethora of forms such as C1s, which are the reimbursement claim forms, C2s, C3s, Members' car allowance scheme forms and Members' constituency mileage continuation sheets? There is also a 43-page document called "Parliamentary Salaries, Allowances and Pensions" which includes details of where to get help. It takes many hours every week to fill in these forms, but would not that time be far better spent looking after one's constituents? Surely, accountability and transparency do not have to mean excessive form filling. We are not all crooks.
31.  Mr. Steen : If she will make a statement on the arrangements for the payment of Members' allowances. [17122]
 Mr. William Cash  (Stone) : Will my right hon. and learned Friend give way?
 Mr. Cash rose—
 Mr. Cash : Does my right hon. and learned Friend concede that, although some of us accept the idea of a court of justice with limited functions, objections are made to the expansion of the court not only because it tends to go into judicial—and even political—activism, but because the functions that have been conferred on it under the process of continuing treaties, in the continuous rush towards ever closer union, are creating a situation in which the court is becoming a supranational body with power over areas of governmental activities, including economic and monetary union? That is the problem that many of us have with the European Court of Justice. If its powers were more limited, it would be more acceptable.
 Mr. Cash : Would the hon. Gentleman be good enough to bear in mind the fact that although the Union is founded on principles of liberty, democracy and the rule of law, if we dig a little deeper into the behaviour of current member states of the EU we find that "fundamental freedoms" and the rule of law do not apply with equal
 237
 Mr. Cash indicated dissent.
 Mr. Cash : Has the Minister given serious thought to the question that I tried to raise earlier about the common principles that apply to the existing European Union? Has some form of analysis been made, even within the existing EU, let alone with any prospective new members, of what the common principles are in relation to democratic procedures, accountability, trial by jury, habeas corpus and such things? Otherwise, simply stating
 247
 Mr. Cash rose—
 Mr. Cash : Does the Minister accept that this new-fangled concept of flexibility has serious dangers not least because, as he suggested, it creates a legal framework in which there is a momentum towards the creation of functions for certain member states? There is a continuous momentum towards the kind of integration that, apparently, the Government on the whole do not want. Is not there a contradiction in their position in allowing, through the adoption of flexibility, a momentum towards integration, which they say they would rather not have?
 Mr. Bob Blizzard  (Waveney) : I should like to add my support to virtually everything the hon. Gentleman has said. The wetland nature reserves of the Suffolk coast attract significant numbers of visitors, just as they must do in Norfolk. They are thus of economic benefit to my constituency and the surrounding area. While I support the environmental thrust of the hon. Gentleman's argument, I would also point to the economic value of coastal protection schemes.
 Mr. Wilson : The hon. Gentleman would be well advised to wait until the figures are finalised. He would do his constituents and the young people of Scotland a service if he contributed to a more accurate flow of information.
 The Minister for Education and Industry, Scottish Office (Mr. Brian Wilson) : My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State visited the university of Dundee in November. I visited the universities of Abertay Dundee and Strathclyde in September and the university of Edinburgh in November.
 Mr. Wilson : It is important to understand that the headline caricature of £1,000 a year tuition fees is not true. On present statistics, 40 per cent, of Scottish students will be entirely exempt from tuition fees. That is extremely important. 144
 Mr. Wilson : Indeed, I confirm that that will be the case from next April. That is a move forward of great importance to lone parents. We shall be producing a separate Scottish White Paper on lifelong learning which will cover a wide range of initiatives in that field.
 Mr. Wilson : I would be anxious to visit a cross-section of universities. If I went to St. Andrews with its 44 per cent. of students from south of the border, I might equally go to Paisley university with its 1 per cent. If I went to St. Andrews, I would not swallow whole everything that the principal told me. I might even advise the principal that if he wants to maintain the precise number of students from outwith Scotland, especially from England, it is absolutely open to him to do so. He could do so by taking more students from that large group who are not subject to tuition fees and are therefore not affected by our proposals.
 Mr. Wilson : By definition, those who do not pay tuition fees are students from lower-income backgrounds. If the principal of St. Andrews wanted to go down that road, I would welcome it. I wonder whether the hon. and learned Gentleman would do so.
 Mr. Wilson : Let us be clear about this: Locate in Scotland does better for Scotland within the United Kingdom than any other development agency in Europe, and that is how we intend to keep it. The hon. Gentleman asked why we needed to change or update the rules. It may have escaped his notice that major constitutional change is taking place. There will be a Scottish Parliament and a Welsh Parliament, and there will be a group of powerful economic development agencies in Europe. The hon. Gentleman should understand that rules can work in Scotland's interests. The idea that someone is always trying to steal our piece and working against Scotland is ridiculous. I welcome the rules, and we shall work with other Departments to bring them to fruition.
 Mr. Wilson : The right hon. Gentleman should not always believe what he reads in the newspapers. There is constructive dialogue to produce the best possible solution for Scotland and for the United Kingdom as a whole. That is our aim, and that will be our achievement.
 Mr. Wilson : I agree with the thrust of what my hon. Friend says, although I do not associate the last charge with anything that we have heard from hon. Members today. My hon. Friend is absolutely right that part of Scotland's strength as an inward investment destination is its place within the United Kingdom. In a recent visit to the far east, I had excellent assistance and co-operation from UK representatives abroad. There is, of course, a crossover between what we can do for Scotland directly and our inward investment effort for the United Kingdom as a whole, and long may that continue—it is very much in Scotland's interests.
 Mr. Wilson : The brief answer is no, but I will make a slightly fuller reply in response to the earlier point. Yes, I pay tribute to a great deal of the work that was done. I pay tribute to some of the decisions that were taken and to the continuing work of Locate in Scotland throughout that period. I do not pay tribute, however—I do not attribute this to the hon. Gentleman—to hon. Members, perhaps from other parties, who welcome job announcements, but who at the first whiff of grapeshot and difficulty start to condemn and say things that are very different from what they said when the announcements were greeted. We have seen examples of that in recent days in relation to the reports on Hyundai.
 Mr. Wilson : The Scottish Parliament's responsibilities in this area are clearly set out in the White Paper and will be translated into legislation. They are easily understood and must be enforceable. I have no doubt that the political focus that the Scottish Parliament will put on issues of economic development and inward investment will be beneficial for Scotland. I must make it clear that we are completely evenhanded. I am very anxious to stress again the support that is available to indigenous companies. No case has been brought to my attention in which indigenous companies have been refused assistance because resources were unavailable through the investment that was made in attracting companies coming into Scotland. The happiest arrangement of all is for
 147
 Mr. Wilson : My hon. Friend speaks with authority on these matters, and is absolutely correct. It is a paranoid response to believe that rules will always work against us. That is not the case. The political situation is changing,
 146
 Mr. Wilson : I can understand the attractiveness of that line of argument to the hon. Gentleman. However, the timetable is bang on schedule. That is a tribute to the draftsmen and to everyone else working with them, and one that refutes the hon. Gentleman's implied criticism. It is entirely proper, and much in Scotland's interests, that a concordat should be in place and that there should be a set of rules.
 Mr. Wilson : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman could take a tutorial from the right hon. Member for Kensington and Chelsea (Mr. Clark), who has some acquaintance with Sutherland. The hon. Gentleman would then learn something about the geography and demography of Scotland, and he might understand why more factors than mere population statistics determine how public funds are allocated. The decisions within the Scottish budget are taken according to priorities and needs. We place a high priority, as I am sure do my hon. Friends south of the border, on education.
 Mr. Wilson : The Government undertook in our White Paper "Scotland's Parliament", Cm 3658, to produce a concordat on common guidelines and consultation arrangements on the handling of financial assistance to industry. Discussions are proceeding among interested Departments.
 Mr. Charles Kennedy  (Ross, Skye and Inverness, West) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Further to your ruling in response to the application under Standing Order No. 24, may I seek your guidance? Although, understandably, the application was made by the Opposition Front-Bench spokesman on Wales—I notice that the Welsh Office Minister responsible for agriculture is present—many of us on both sides of the House and from all parts of the United Kingdom feel that the issues raised by the events in Wales go much broader and deeper than just what has happened in Wales.
 Mr. Charles Kennedy : Does the Minister recognise another matter in addition to his legislative proposals? For example, every time I visit west Inverness in my constituency for discussions with the three key public agencies involved—the police, the social work department and the housing department—they all point to the continuing resource starvation since the general election and the lack of improvement since the Conservatives were, thankfully, turfed out. Therefore, will he recognise that, until those agencies get more money, no amount of legislation will bring about a great practical improvement for people who are affected at the local community level?
 Mr. Christopher Leslie  (Shipley) : Is my right hon. Friend continually astonished, as I am, at the brazen way in which that lot over there made such a hash of the
 170
 Mr. Leslie : Does my right hon. Friend recognise that that contrasts greatly with the way in which our Government are meeting the needs of local authorities, such as Bradford district, which have extremely diverse needs?
8.  Mr. Chope : What assessment he has made of the impact on Scottish universities of the number of students from England wishing to study at such institutions. [17097]
 Mr. Chope : I agree with much of what the right hon. Gentleman said, but my commitment to the Union comes from my four years' experience as an undergraduate at a Scottish university. How much would it cost the Department for Education and Employment in England to pay the tuition costs of English students at Scottish universities during their fourth year, thereby enabling them to benefit from the four-year Scottish education as
 152
 Mr. Crispin Blunt  (Reigate) : The point that I made was that the NATO aspect sits alongside the progressive framing of a European defence identity. I should like the Minister to address that issue.
 Mr. Blunt rose—
 Mr. Damian Green  (Ashford) : I am worried that my hon. Friend's characteristic eloquence is masking an illogical position. He says that the European treaties that the United Kingdom has signed are irreversible and that it
 213
36.  Mr. Chidgey : What assessment she has made of the advantages of spreading consideration of Bills more evenly throughout the parliamentary Session. [17128]
 Mr. Chidgey : I thank the right hon. Lady for that reply. I welcome the advance publication of certain Bills, which is helpful. To return to a previous point, however, is the right hon. Lady aware that, following the Jopling recommendations, there is less and less time for Back Benchers to debate issues in the House? A case in point was the wild mammals Bill last Friday—[HON. MEMBERS: "Wild Members?"] Hon. Members must have misheard; I am referring to the Wild Mammals (Hunting with Dogs) Bill, which had overwhelming support in the House and elsewhere. It is not tenable for a Government who have such a large mandate to rely on the Opposition not to oppose in order to get their Bills through. I ask the right hon. Lady to allow Government time so that the Bill can progress.
 Mr. David Curry  (Skipton and Ripon) : Does the right hon. Gentleman accept that some council tax increases will be significantly higher than the 7 per cent. that has been predicated because of the weakening of the damping mechanism that he has announced? If the right hon. Gentleman is to get rid of crude capping, does he intend to maintain sophisticated capping? If so, what is it?
 Mr. David Curry (Skipton and Ripon) : Georgia?
 Mr. David Faber  (Westbury) : Both of them.
 Mr. David Marshall : Does the Secretary of State agree that long-term unemployment is a huge problem in the city of Glasgow? Will he gave an assurance that the
 140
 Mr. David Prior  (North Norfolk) : I am and always have been a pro-European. I have worked in almost every country in Europe; I have bought and sold products in every country in Europe; and I have run a business in Germany. I believe in free trade, in breaking down tariff barriers and in removing state aids, but we have a long way to go in practice before we can genuinely say that we have created a single market in Europe. "an unnecessary move towards further integration of the European Union. It contains a series of measures that transfer power to Brussels from the national parliaments".—[ Official Report 202
 Mr. Prior : I, too, am in favour of the Single European Act, but when the Chancellor of the Exchequer says that monetary union will involve some pooling of economic sovereignty, that statement is disingenuous. I believe that monetary union goes beyond that. That view is not necessarily wrong, as I accept that there are different views on Europe, but monetary union goes way beyond some pooling of economic sovereignty. 203
 Mr. Prior : The hon. Gentleman is right. Tourism is a vital part of the economies of Suffolk and north Norfolk.
 Mr. Prior : Perhaps the Minister has been there. That habitat was created with the bittern especially in mind. 260
 Mr. Prior : I agree. The three bird reserves, Minsmere, Cley and Titchwell, are unique assets that bring many visitors to Suffolk and north Norfolk.
 Mr. Prior : I thank the hon. Gentleman for his comments. There is no doubt that a fundamental change which will affect sea levels is under way. There are limits to what Governments or anyone else can do to limit the implications. The difficulty for wildlife habitats is that there is, in a sense, nowhere for the sea to go because of developments along the coast. If the coastal roads and houses had not been built, the coastline would have found its own natural place. However, that is not the position. 261
 Mr. Prior : I thank my hon. Friend. We should pay tribute to the work being done by the Environment Agency in protecting the Norfolk Broads. The scheme at Sea palling and Hattisburgh—the offshore reach—is remarkable. It is not yet proven scheme, but it is a remarkable feat of engineering.
 Mr. David prior  (North Norfolk) : I am delighted to have secured a debate on the impact of coastal erosion, saltwater and flooding on bird reserves and wetlands. The matter is of vital concern not only to people living on the coast but to many bird watchers throughout the country. 259
29.  Mr. Rendel : What assessment she has made of the advantages of introducing time limits on Front-Bench responses to statements. [17120]
 Mr. Rendel : Has the right hon. Lady noticed that the main spokesperson for the official Opposition seems to be taking longer and longer to reply to statements and that that not only makes it difficult for the Minister, who has to try to remember all the questions to answer, but tends to leave less time for spokespersons from other parties and for all Back Benchers? Will the right hon. Lady consider what to do about this in the Select Committee on Modernisation of the House of Commons?
 Mr. David Winnick  (Walsall, North) : Will the Minister bear in mind the fact that unemployed people whom I often see are unemployed not because they want to be but because of genuine disability or age—people who are in their 40s and 50s have been made redundant
 184
 Mr. Denis MacShane  (Rotherham) : Except one.
37.  Mr. Canavan : What assessment she has made of the allocation of time to different Ministers to answer oral questions. [17129]
 Mr. Canavan : Did my right hon. Friend notice that, in Scottish Question Time earlier this afternoon, we reached only Question 8? Until such time as the Scottish Parliament is established, can we have the restoration of a full hour of Scottish questions?
 Mr. Canavan : Is the Secretary of State aware that yesterday the Wrangler jeans company announced 250 redundancies at the factory at Camelon in my constituency, and that that is a devastating blow for the work force and the entire local community? Will the Secretary of State therefore make urgent contact with the company to discover what can be done to save as many jobs as possible?
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Is my hon. Friend aware that in trying to meet the rising social security bill of £90 billion-plus, which will rise to £100 billion before the end of this Parliament, he would be in a much better position if, for instance, the Government realised, even at this stage, that it was necessary to increase taxes for people such as Members of Parliament and those who get even more money than we do? That is one approach which has, sadly, been excluded, but it will have to be returned to. 180
 Mr. Denzil Davies  (Llanelli) rose—
 Mr. Denzil Davies : I apologise for interrupting my hon. Friend. As a non-economist, I have always been
 223
 Mr. Swayne : I want to speak in favour of amendment No. 8. Several hon. Members have outlined the extreme unlikelihood of the provisions in article F.1 ever being brought into force. That begs the question: why is the article in the treaty? 245
 Mr. Desmond Swayne  (New Forest, West) : At the Committee's previous sitting, the hon. Member for Harlow (Mr. Rammell), who unfortunately is not in his place, suggested that the defeat that the Conservatives suffered on 1 May was a consequence of the events of September 1992, and our inability to control our interest rate in what he called
 "a global international currency situation."—[ Official Report
 Mr. Swayne : I thank my hon. Friend, as I had indeed forgotten that. It is pertinent that I should be reminded. "The Union shall set itself the following objectives:". "To maintain and develop the Union as an area of freedom, security and justice, in which the free movement of persons is assured in conjunction with appropriate measures with respect to external border controls, asylum, immigration and the prevention and combating of crime." 204 "Without prejudice to the powers of the European Community, the Union's objective shall be to provide citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice by developing common action among the Member States in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and by preventing and combating racism and xenophobia." "to maintain in full the aquis communautaire and build on it with a view to considering to what extent the policies and forms of cooperation introduced by this Treaty may need to be revised"
 Mr. Swayne : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that large companies that can afford compliance favour the social protection legislation of which he has spoken, and that small companies, which cannot afford that compliance, are being driven out of business to the advantage of the large companies that increasingly dominate the market?
 Mr. Swayne : Shame.
 Mr. Swayne : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Swayne : Given the huge majority that the Government achieved, they could enact whatever social protection they wanted for the British people. What was to be gained by giving away our right to prevent social protection provision of which the Government might disapprove and which might cost jobs?
 Mr. Swayne : Will the hon. Gentleman comment on the fact that the social chapter has remained a dead letter and has not influenced employment practices, because other member states were not prepared to disadvantage themselves through regulations that did not apply in this realm?
 Mr. Dewar : I am absolutely delighted that the hon. Gentleman enjoyed his years at Dundee so much. I am sure that he benefited from them, although I would have liked to see further improvement.
 Mr. Dewar : Cross-border flows of students in both directions can contribute to a healthy diversity of backgrounds in our universities. The proportion of students from England attending Scottish universities varies greatly. In financial terms, English-domiciled students bring with them tuition fees paid for by local education authorities in England, and the remainder of the cost of teaching is met by grant funding from the Scottish Higher Education Funding Council.
 Mr. Dewar : I assure my hon. Friend that I appreciate the importance of this to his locality—it was disappointing news. I gather that it is proposed that production should go abroad on this occasion, but we shall do everything we can to help with the difficulty. Forth Valley Enterprise is already involved and my office is looking at the matter closely. We shall try to offer any constructive help that we can.
 Mr. Dewar : That was a somewhat confused question. If the hon. Gentleman is asking for my view of the current discussions on the proper co-ordination of the inward investment effort across the United Kingdom, I certainly
 141
 Mr. Dewar : My hon. Friend can be assured that we fully back Glasgow's bid and hope that it will be successful. I remind him that the welfare-to-work programme, which deals with those who have been out of the labour market for a considerable time, is an enormously important commitment, backed by heavy funding on the part of the Government, and Glasgow, in Scottish terms, is a very important part of that programme.
 Mr. Dewar : I think that the choice is a false one; it is not a matter of choosing between the two, as the right hon. Gentleman knows. I welcome his interest and concern for those who are struggling in Glasgow. No doubt he will be glad of my assurance that we work very closely with Highlands and Islands Enterprise, local authorities and other agencies to examine the problems of areas such as Sutherland, with which we are very familiar. I hope that the right hon. Gentleman will take the pleasure that I do in the fact that a working party is closely studying land management and the ownership in that part of the world.
 Mr. Dewar : It is in the interests of the whole United Kingdom that we place public finances on a sound footing and get levels of growth that we can sustain and build on in the future.
 The Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Donald Dewar) : I and my hon. Friend the Minister for Education and Industry met representatives of Scottish Enterprise on 26 November when a number of issues, including job creation, were discussed.
 Mr. Dewar : That is a very prejudiced view of what is happening in the Scottish economy. I have before me a long double column of recent job increases, but I do not think that swapping that sort of statistic is very helpful. The important point is that unemployment is low and there is growth in the economy. Our aims and policies, in Scotland and the rest of the country, are designed to sustain that state of affairs and to make sure that we avoid the stop-go cycles with which the hon. Gentleman, given the record of the Government he supported, will be very familiar.
 Mr. Dewar : I am happy to endorse my hon. Friend's good opinion of the efforts made by local enterprise companies and local authorities, in Fife and throughout Scotland. We are watching the Hyundai situation closely. There has been a good deal of rather excitable copy in the press about the costs of attracting that company. Most of the figures that I have seen have been wildly exaggerated. I also remind the House that under regional selective assistance and the many other elements involved payment is not made until the jobs are there: no jobs, no payment. However, I welcome the fact that the company has made it clear that it is committed to completing the first phase on time. We shall watch carefully—the more so in view of the unfortunate shock waves that have hit the Korean economy.
 Mr. Dewar : The Government see the importance of welfare to work as real and pressing. Dundee is a pathfinder area, and I am very satisfied to hear reports from my colleagues that these matters are going extremely well there; that was an impression that I gained from my own recent visit to Dundee. I associate myself with what my hon. Friend said about Michelin and NCR, and the level of commitment shown by local employers generally. I hope that my hon. Friend will not be embarrassed if I say that the hard work of both Dundee Members—my hon. Friends the Members for Dundee, East (Mr. McAllion) and for Dundee, West (Mr. Ross)—has been a feature of that effort.
 Mr. Doug Henderson : I have been called earlier than I expected. I am grateful to my hon. Friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney (Mr. Rowlands) for moving the amendment in a supportive way. He often does that, although not always. As the right hon. and learned Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard) said in his short speech, there was much discussion on the issue to which the amendment relates during our debate on the earlier group of amendments. We are debating an important part of the Bill. The Government cannot accept the amendment, but I know that its purpose was to enable the Committee to debate the issues. I hope that my hon. Friend will eventually withdraw his amendment. 246
 Mr. Henderson : I am sure that the hon. Gentleman has read the Commission document "Agenda 2000" on enlargement.
 Mr. Henderson : I refer the hon. Gentleman to it. In it, the Commission outlines the sort of tests that a country has to meet to gain admission to the European Union. Many of those principles, which are accepted without any serious doubt by all EU partners, are the ones that, at the minimum, would apply. However, in response to a similar question, which the hon. Gentleman asked me in the Select Committee, I said that those principles change over time.
 Mr. Henderson : If the hon. Gentleman will allow me, I shall move on to the points raised by the right hon. and learned Member for Folkestone and Hythe about foreign policy. 228 229
 Mr. Henderson : No, I will not give way now. There is also no question of the ECJ's having any role in the maintenance of law and order in this country or our internal security.
 Mr. Henderson : The point is clear. When it comes to defence, it is the responsibility of NATO. There is a need to co-ordinate—for the Western European Union to talk to the European Council about important issues such as foreign policy issues that were agreed under Maastricht's second pillar by the previous Government. There is a need to liaise and work together, but ultimately, if it comes to
 227
 Mr. Henderson : I think that I have exhausted that point. The Opposition have put a fair argument and the Government have given a fair response.
 Mr. Henderson : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend for raising that. If I knew the answer, I would be rich—although I am probably debarred as a Minister from allowing my bank to invest on my behalf. A cycle lasts as long as it lasts. We cannot predict how long the current cycle will last. We can only prepare for decisions that we may want to take in future on European currencies. It is crucial that we debate such matters and that businesses are aware of the debate, take part in it and prepare themselves for the decision.
 Mr. Henderson : My patience will be exhausted in a little while.
 Mr. Henderson : I know that the hon. Gentleman follows these matters closely. He would be dishonest with
 222
 Mr. Henderson : The hon. Gentleman is in a fantasy world. Of course employment is influenced by cyclical and structural factors, but the hon. Gentleman is surely not telling me that the reason why all the shipyards went bust in the north of England was cyclical issues or burdens on business. It happened because of fundamental structural imbalances in the economy. We have to improve employability to take on the challenges in Europe and the rest of the world. It is important to make progress in the Amsterdam treaty so that we can take up the other issues at Luxembourg and beyond.
 Mr. Henderson : The hon. Gentleman is not aware that there was a discussion at the intergovernmental conference about whether flexibility is necessary in principle. The answer to that question was, by and large, yes, there may be circumstances in which different groups of countries want to do things at a different speed. The point was made that we could not have continual flexibility or it would destroy the single market, and everybody would want to do what they thought was in their interest and not combine over a common cause when it was not in their interest. There had to be some way of meeting the two objectives. 226
 Mr. Henderson : I shall not incessantly give way to the hon. Gentleman, but I am tempted on this occasion.
 Mr. Henderson : The right hon. and learned Gentleman is not aware of the debate that has taken place with our partners. We are talking about how to deal with a critical situation, not an everyday situation. It is a political decision which would have to be taken by a 15 minus one majority. Every country other than the country involved would have to agree. The power would not be used in a trifling way, to take revenge on an existing member because one country or a group of countries disagreed with it. If that happened, the future of the European Union would be in great jeopardy. [HON. MEMBERS: "It is."] No, it is not. The member states of the European Union have a deep commitment to making changes when necessary, agreeing common positions when it is sensible and retaining our distinctiveness when that is better. 224 225
 Mr. Henderson : The hon. Gentleman makes an interesting point. I do not totally disagree with him. However, I do not think that there is any conflict between giving working people protection—in some instances at a European level, but in more instances at a nation state level—and having a flexible labour market that allows companies to change their production methods and reskill workers so that they can take on the challenges of tomorrow. I see the hon. Gentleman smile slightly. He knows that business people tell him the same as they have told me.
 Mr. Henderson : I am very glad that I gave way to the right hon. and learned Gentleman. I like to give those who wish to confess an opportunity to do so. That is not the first confession of a change of position in Committee. I genuinely welcome the fact that there has been a debate in Committee and that the Opposition have recognised that the Government have achieved what the Opposition said that they would have wanted to achieve had they taken part in the negotiations.
 The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Mr. Doug Henderson) : When I am required to reply to debates, I try to keep myself in order by putting page numbers on my notes. Today, I have used not only page numbers but dates. We have had a very wide-ranging debate. Not all the speeches have been directed completely to the central point of the amendments, but—because of the nature of the subject and the way in which we have to debate the issues—that has largely been inevitable. 219 220 221
 Mr. Henderson : I am tempted to say to the hon. Gentleman that seven months of a Labour Government have not done us any harm in that regard. The hon. Gentleman raises a serious question, however. One cannot measure employment over a short period; one must look at it over the long term. Over the long term, we have no better record than comparable countries in the European Union. It is arguable that for much of the period of Conservative Government, we had a far poorer record than many of our European partners. The main factor is that the business cycle is at a different point and that is the real reason why there is a difference between us and our European partners.
 Mr. Henderson : My hon. Friend will recognise that it is easier for the Government to be specific about inflation targets and to take measures that are tightly linked to achieving those targets than to set employment targets. Even if the Government had to set employment targets, it would not be easy to hit them, as my hon. Friend will understand. That is why it is important to get the approach right. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor made it clear in his statement to the House three weeks ago that the important thing is to fight inflation and to get the right monetary context, and then to take all the other measures to raise employability which will help to tackle the problem of unemployment.
 Mr. Garnier : How many minutes has the Minister without Portfolio, the hon. Member for Hartlepool (Mr. Mandelson), spent answering questions or making statements or speeches at the Dispatch Box since his appointment to the Government?
 The Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mr. Elliot Morley) indicated assent.
 The parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mr. Elliot Morley) : I congratulate the hon. Member for North Norfolk (Mr. prior) on the way in which he has pursued this Adjournment debate. He has spoken with great authority and knowledge. The matter is important, and I am delighted to see so many hon. Members present for the debate. 262 263
 Mr. Morley : My hon. Friend raises an issue that is slightly beyond the scope of the debate. I know that he has raised it because sand dunes and sand dune stability are an important part of preventing coastal erosion. There are strategies for dealing with the issue that involve the planting of suitable grasses and vegetation, along with proper management plans. We listened to the advice of our statutory advisers—English Nature in England and the appropriate countryside bodies in Scotland and Wales. 264
 Mr. Morley : I can tell the hon. Gentleman that in Essex that was not the case. When using that strategy, other considerations have to be taken into account, and water abstraction is one. We have to look at where it is most appropriate for such a policy to be implemented. That is part of the study that is taking place. 265 266
 Mr. Clarke : I thank my hon. Friend for his reply. I hope that he is aware that Midlothian is the poor relation in terms of medical facilities. We have two hospitals: the Rosslynlee, which is a mental hospital and is due for closure, and a geriatric hospital in Loanhead, which is due to be refurbished or replaced. As Edinburgh's Eastern general, Northern general and City hospitals, as well as the Princess Margaret Rose hospital, may close as well, my constituents are worried. They are not only poor; many are disabled, and to go to St. John's in Livingston or to the Western general in Edinburgh is an ordeal. I hope that my hon. Friend will give the utmost priority to the new hospital, which is badly needed in Midlothian.
6.  Mr. Eric Clarke : When he expects construction of the new Midlothian community hospital to commence. [17095]
 Mr. Forth : Does the right hon. Lady accept that many, if not most, members of the public do not wish to regard this place as a legislation factory? The thought of random, if not bizarre, legislation by private Members would scare the wits out of the public.
 Mr. Ernie Ross : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the new deal must be tailored to meet local job creation requirements? The Minister for Education and Industry was in Dundee recently at a meeting hosted by Michelin and NCR—a meeting called to reflect the concerns felt on
 142
 Mr. Gerald Howarth  (Aldershot) : Can the Minister explain to the Committee why the United Kingdom is enjoying increasingly lower unemployment while unemployment is rising on the continent? Is it, perhaps, something to do with the social chapter and all the burdens on business on the continent which we in these islands have resisted?
 Mr. Graham Brady  (Altrincham and Sale, West) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Was it in order for the Paymaster General to make a statement today on the replacement of the whole regime for saving, replacing the highly successful tax-exempt special savings accounts—TESSAs—and personal equity plans—PEPs—and to choose to do so outside the House? Is it perhaps possible that he is avoiding the Chamber so that he does not have to take questions on other matters which may embarrass him?
 Mr. Harry Barnes  (North-East Derbyshire) : May I pursue the matter of weighting in the context of people moving to areas such as Westminster, because that affects my constituency in the other direction? Has the enhanced population figure been given a reduced weighting? I do not think that that can be the case, because north-east Derbyshire suffers terribly. It has finished up with a smaller revenue support grant than it received previously. Rather than the principle itself, the weighting for people moving and the area cost adjustment need to be considered.
 Mr. McLeish : I am grateful for my hon. Friend's comments. I reassure her and the House that, when the Bill is passed, we intend to have proper procedures in place to maximise the speed with which anti-social neighbours are dealt with. That has been the problem: it has taken far too long to bring culprits to the courts. That has meant more misery for the victims, who can be found in every constituency.
 Mr. McLeish : We appreciate that our measures will involve resources. We are willing to face that. The hon. Gentleman is right to say that we are speaking not just about anti-social behaviour orders. We need to look at the questions of eviction and of witness intimidation, which is rife in many cases, and, of course, we want inter-agency co-operation in relation to witness protection. This is a package of measures and I assure the House that we intend to pursue the matter speedily to get appropriate and effective action.
 Mr. McLeish : I could not agree more with my hon. Friend. This is not within my power, but I expect that the crime and disorder Bill will become law by the summer of 1998. Everyone should appreciate that we are embarking on the toughest ever crackdown on anti-social behaviour. It will cover local authority tenants and private tenants and, of course, it will also cover home owners. We intend to make sure that the mindless behaviour of the few in every community in Scotland who undermine at every turn the quality of life of the many will be vigorously tackled.
 The Minister for Home Affairs and Devolution, Scottish Office (Mr. Henry McLeish) : We are giving effect to our manifesto commitment to take tough action on neighbour nuisance and anti-social behaviour. Provisions for anti-social behaviour orders will be included in the crime and disorder Bill. We recently announced proposals for further legislative and administrative measures to tackle this totally unacceptable menace in every community in Scotland.
 Mr. McLeish : I am sure that that contribution was about suggesting that every hon. Member supports the tough measures that the Labour Government are taking on anti-social behaviour. We expect that the orders could cover almost 600 people. That means that the tiny minority of people who are causing mayhem in towns, villages and cities will be tackled. That is real progress and we await with interest the passing of the Bill.
 Mr. Howard Flight  (Arundel and South Downs) : The debate is important because it does not turn on a small, minor item that the approval of the treaty of Amsterdam represents. As my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke) said, we are talking of a step down the path towards European integration. 205 206
 Mr. Flight : The deep south, Sir. Certainly not Georgia, which is the mid-south. 208
 Mr. Flight : Clearly, joining the single currency means surrendering the existence of the country as a nation state. It means giving up a considerable amount. If we are to give up such an amount, the argument has to be
 207
 Mr. Flight : Like all Conservatives, I am ultimately a pragmatic person. Who knows what the circumstances will be in the future? There is no case for selling our birthright in the immediate future. One of the things that has most worried me is that the provisions of the Maastricht treaty for coming together are a completely wrong measure of the economic homogeneity that is needed for a common currency to work.
 Mr. Flight : Unemployment can be caused by cyclical or structural factors. Surely it is clear that the major cause of unemployment in Europe is structural. The European economies have been in an up-cycle for the past 18 months and will probably reach the peak of that cycle during the next six months. There is still massive and rising structural unemployment which results from the social chapter and the huge cost of employing people.
 Mr. Ian Bruce : In his discussions with Scottish Enterprise, has the right hon. Gentleman mentioned the fact that it can offer new businesses coming to Scotland higher grants, that tourism in Scotland gets a lot more money, and that public spending there is higher too? Has he been able to reassure its members that Scotland will always enjoy that advantage over the other regions of England and that he will fight in Cabinet to ensure the continuation of that unfair advantage?
 Mr. Davidson : Do my hon. Friend and the Government accept that anti-social neighbours are a curse on good and decent people in all parts of Scotland? Will my hon. Friend pledge that the Government will take action during their first year in office? It is essential that action is taken quickly because the problem was completely neglected during the 18 years of the previous Government. 149
5.  Mr. Davidson : What plans he has to take action against anti-social neighbours. [17094]
 Mr. Ian Taylor rose—
 Mr. Taylor : I intervene to help the Minister. The flexible labour policies that the Chancellor has been preaching recently—he has begun to understand why we put those policies into practice when we were in government—are crucial to the success of economic and monetary union. Those of us who can envisage economic and monetary union taking place understand that flexible labour markets are at the heart of it. There is no confusion. The Minister can admit that flexible markets will assist the reduction in unemployment and the increase in the number of jobs created on the continent. That will be good news for the whole European Union.
 Mr. Taylor : No, I do not believe in the ratchet theory any more than I necessarily believe in the train theory, for the reason that I started to outline a moment ago. There is no preordained destination. The whole point is that mistakes will be made in the European Union. None of us who regard ourselves as Europhiles, because we are supposed to have labels these days, would say that the European Union is always right and that no mistakes have been made. I will oppose things that are wrong in the European Union, but if I oppose them, or if the Prime Minister of the day opposes them, it is important that in doing so we have influence over the other members of the Union if we are to get our way. We shall not get our way if we sound abusive from the sidelines.
 Mr. Taylor : First, I repeat that the failure of the euro would not leave us immune and would be extremely damaging to our economy. Secondly, I do not draw the same conclusion as my hon. Friend. The position of sterling at the moment is due to a variety of factors, not least those being witnessed in Japan. They are a sign of the considerable turbulence and disruption that can occur on international markets. They also point to another factor that I have not yet mentioned, which is, once the euro is out there, sterling is likely to be buffeted up and down because of the squeezing effect of the euro as a reserve currency, the dollar and whatever happens to the yen. None of those factors is very comforting to any British Chancellor or British business man. 218
 Mr. Taylor : I do not know which one that might be, but I certainly hope that it is not the one to which I am proud to belong. It is important to understand that influence is part of the power structure that some call sovereignty, and our influence over the rest of the European Union is critically based on our credible attachment to it. In that respect, there are no half measures. If there are successful ways to bring about an ever closer union or unity, we shall pursue them because they are successful. The single market is one of them. 217
 Mr. Ian Taylor : I take great pleasure in following two such cerebral contributions by my honourable colleagues. I am not sure that I can emulate them. My right hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Mr. Major) might have said that they were perhaps a touch too ideological in tone. My hon. Friend the Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis) touchingly spoke about his Pauline conversion and quoted the headline about Santer dictating foreign policy, which sounds like a proper offering for the Christmas season. Nevertheless, perhaps it did not
 214 215 216
 Mr. Ian Taylor : My hon. Friend has raised an interesting point. If not for a mess of pottage, for what would he sell his birthright?
 Mr. Ian Taylor  (Esher and Walton) : My hon. Friend is right to say that the politics may not have been stressed enough in public debates, but one of the key achievements of Margaret Thatcher as Prime Minister was her realisation that qualified majority voting was essential in the about-to-be created single market to overcome the protectionist instincts of any one nation. She realised that it was vital to Europe's wider interests that there be no national veto in the single market—which I am sure is why my hon. Friend the Member for Stone (Mr. Cash) voted in favour of the Single European Act.
10.  Mr. Gray : What discussions he has had recently with the President of the Board of Trade on inward investment matters. [17099]
 Mr. Gray : Will the Minister pay tribute to the record £5 billion of inward investment that was achieved under the Conservative Government? Does he agree that that record achievement stands a good chance of being undermined by the triple whammy of the Scottish Parliament, the social chapter and the minimum wage?
 Mr. James Paice  (South-East Cambridgeshire) : Does the Deputy Prime Minister realise that people in Cambridgeshire will see nothing fair in a settlement that breaks a promise that was given during the election campaign by the Prime Minister, to get rid of the iniquitous area cost adjustment? The settlement means that council tax in Cambridgeshire will rise by an iniquitous amount—considerably higher than the amount that was stated by my right hon. Friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield (Sir N. Fowler). However, the overall capping limits mean that expenditure cannot rise by more than the rate of inflation.
 Mr. Wallace : Does the Minister agree that, as well as the important job of attracting inward investment, the Scottish Parliament will be wise if it tries to devise strategies to promote indigenous companies in Scotland? It might equally be wise to enter into a concordat with other development agencies in the rest of the United Kingdom to try to prevent—I think that these were the Minister's words—the expensive and unproductive outbidding that there has been? Will the Minister assure the House that that will be a decision that the Scottish Parliament can freely make and not be bound beforehand by any decision of the Secretary of State?
 Mr. Bercow : Does my hon. Friend recall that, when the hon. Member for Harlow (Mr. Rammell) was invited to cite a single example of a xenophobic statement during the Committee's deliberations, he could not produce an example?
 Mr. Bercow : Does my hon. Friend recall that, in the past, he likened the process of European integration to the process of seduction? He has observed to me and to others that the outcome in both cases seems to be the same.
 Mr. Bercow : I am following closely the logic of my hon. Friend's thesis. Does he agree that the people of Britain will never knowingly consent to being governed by those who do not speak their language, live in their country or depend on their votes?
 Mr. Bercow : My hon. Friend took far too long.
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : There is a real concern among Conservative Members that article F.1 of the treaty of Amsterdam is a device conjured up by supporters of European federalism to end the use of the national veto. To date, that real concern has been met by Ministers with a mixture of faint puzzlement and lofty disdain. Clearly, they do not comprehend our concern. "Fundamental Social Rights of Workers."
 Mr. Bercow : Does my hon. Friend believe that there is a ratchet for European integration which, to all intents and purposes, is irresistible?
 Mr. John Cryer  (Hornchurch) : The aim of full employment, which seemed implicit in my hon. Friend's statement, is laudable, but I do not understand how that is
 183
 Mr. John Greenway  (Ryedale) : Why has Ryedale district council been given a nil increase in its budget? Is not that a disaster for shire districts, which will result in cuts in services for some of the most vulnerable people in rural areas, as well as a massive hike in council tax?
 Mr. John Hayes  (South Holland and The Deepings) : I had a meeting earlier today on this very subject. We discussed the precise examples in Essex that the Minister has given. The creation of the new salt marshes conflicts to some extent with the water abstraction policy of some of the water companies. Does he have any view on that in respect of the trials?
 Mr. John MacGregor  (South Norfolk) : On pension funds, the right hon. Gentleman will be well aware that most local authorities are very concerned about the provision that they will have to make as a result of the abolition of advance corporation tax in a couple of years' time, and are looking to make that provision. Does taking into account mean considering but ignoring, or does it mean meeting in full the extra cost?
 Mr. McAllion : My hon. Friend will accept that the statistics on the relationship between poor housing and poor health in Scotland are appalling. Ninety-seven per cent. of our stock failed a national energy efficiency rating, one in four houses suffer from damp and condensation and, every winter, there are 2,000 excess deaths as a result of poor housing in Scotland. Does my hon. Friend therefore accept that the link between bad housing and bad health in Scotland will never be finally broken until the Labour Government have the courage to recognise that we require a major programme of public investment in housing stock and in tackling the reasons for poverty, which cause so much ill health in our country?
 Mr. John McAllion  (Dundee, East) : My hon. Friend rightly recognised the growing gap between poor and rich pensioners. Does he also recognise that the present generation of pensioners bequeathed to our generation a national health service and a welfare state from which all of us have benefited? Does he further recognise that, for the poorest among them, it is now too late to take out a second-tier or stakeholder pension? At the very least, we owe it to them to restore the link between pension increases and average earnings, which was so callously broken by the Conservative party in 1981.
 Mr. Prescott : That is a matter of some concern, and it has been discussed in the House. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor has made it clear that he will take into account the changes in the next financial year. We must await his statement to see exactly what he will do and what the proportion will be, after a decision has been made on the revaluation of pensions. A proper assessment cannot be made until the revaluation has been completed.
 Mr. Prescott : The assessments affect authorities differently. My hon. Friend's authority will receive a permitted increase in the budget of 3 per cent., which, with passporting, will allow it to meet extra requirements without being penalised by the capping regime. That is how we have made the system fairer. We are moving away from the crude capping arrangements. I am sure that that is what his authority would want, and that is what we have done.
 Mr. Prescott : The reason is that the council's expenditure over the standard spending assessment is more than the 12.5 per cent. that I have announced will
 171
 Mr. Prescott : My hon. Friend has given a good example of how we have made SSAs fairer. Trafford's SSA will increase by 2.9 per cent., and it has particularly benefited from the changes that we have made to the elderly residential social services formula. That is about needs, justice and fairness, and it is a good example of the changes that we have made.
 Mr. Prescott : As I have said, I am concerned about the area adjustment matter, but I am not convinced by all the current evidence. I take on board the hon. Gentleman's point, but I have promised to review the matter and make a statement about it. Cambridgeshire has had its resources for education increased by 5.5 per cent., although the permitted budget increase is 3.6 per cent. I do not think that the people of Cambridgeshire are likely to say that that is not good for the county.
 Mr. Prescott : My hon. Friend has spoken to me about the matter of the proper weighting for visitors and commuters. I know that he has another scheme in mind. Perhaps he would like to discuss with me how that might be considered in the financial review.
 Mr. Prescott : I am sure that my hon. Friend will agree that that Conservative has left his party and joined the Labour party because these figures show that it is a fairer party and has dealt fairly with the problems in his area. In my hon. Friend's local authority area, the figure for education has now increased by 5.3 per cent., and the permitted increase in the budget is 3.8 per cent., whereas for Rochdale the figures are 6.5 per cent. and 4.9 per cent. That Tory party member has done what many Tory councillors have done over the years—left the Tory party,
 172
 Mr. Prescott : We intend to carry out considerable consultation with local authorities, including through video conferences and by other modern methods. I shall take into account the right hon. Lady's request for me to meet a delegation from her authority.
 Mr. Prescott : I understand all the problems that local authorities face, and they are no more difficult in Oxfordshire than they are in other areas. We have to be fair in how we deal with the matter and in how we distribute national resources. That is what we have done. I have stated how the hon. Gentleman has fared, and that is our position.
 Mr. Prescott : I think that the hon. Gentleman is correct. We have done what he asks, as is reflected in the figures. Those for Rochford and Southend, East show an increase in education spending of 6.5 per cent.
 173
 Mr. Prescott : I cannot give my hon. Friend a timetable, but as I have said, we are reviewing the matter and considering a period longer than one year. Every year, much time is taken up by considering standard spending assessments, and meeting all sorts of delegations for many types of marginal changes seems to take up much of my Ministers' time. A fairer way to deal with this matter could be on at least a three-year period. We shall certainly take that into account in our review.
 Mr. Prescott : I believe that my hon. Friend the Minister for Local Government and Housing met the hon. Gentleman on Friday to discuss the implications of the settlement and, as he knows, the Government have had considerable discussions with the Oxfordshire authority, particularly arising out of the capping position last year. I hear what the hon. Gentleman says. We are dealing with more than 400 authorities. All have similar problems and all are trying to deal with them. We are trying to provide a fairer system.
 Mr. Prescott : Yes, but the hon. Gentleman's constituency is to have a 4.4 per cent. increase in its education budget and the permitted budget increase is 3.1 per cent. That compares well.
 Mr. Prescott : It is a fair point that no Government can afford to ignore local authorities' expenditure. It would be foolish if I were to say otherwise. Indeed, I have made that clear already. When we set limits, we do not necessarily say that local authorities must spend up to them. We hope that they will exercise discretion. We are examining how we can have proper relationships between central and local government, because both have more than a passing interest in sound public finances. After 18 years of Conservative government, we were not left with sound public financing.
 Mr. Prescott : We are addressing an important principle on the SSAs. The process should be spread over a longer period than one year, and we think that three years could be appropriate. We shall continue to use the criterion that we have employed, but we are reviewing it under current financial arrangements. I think that Southampton will receive an increase in its SSA of 3.7 per cent., which is more than the average for the unitary authorities. We shall be using the present criterion and discussing with the Local Government Association how it can be further implemented.
 Mr. Prescott : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for what he said. How education is dealt with is a very important point. The problem in the past was that Governments agreed that education expenditure could increase, but did not provide the resources. We have made it absolutely clear that the £835 million that we shall provide for
 169
 Mr. Prescott : The assessments, for example, of people in Westminster who are staying as commuters or visitors will now be considered at half the rate that applied before  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Prescott : Those are differences that one has to take into account. In this assessment, Bury was able to get an increase of 6.4 per cent.
 Mr. Prescott : We certainly have added Labour financial resources. I have spelt them out, and they have nothing to do with spin. Instead, there is extra money to fund the new services that are needed. All these matters are under review with the Local Government Association.
 Mr. Prescott : I thought that it was just me. I do not think that that calculation can be made. I do not have one at the moment, and I await the appropriate time for it.
 Mr. Prescott : I recognise that my hon. Friend has been campaigning on that matter since she arrived in the House. It has forced me to see what resources are available from what is known as the collection fund, where, as an incentive, local authorities hold back certain moneys from the collection of rates and the council tax. The amount appears to be about £300 million. That money, according to previous legislation, which I believe still applies, can be used only to reduce the council tax payment. It is a matter of some concern. Resources are there. I am advised that current legislation prevents us from acting immediately on that, but we shall take it into account during the local government review.
 Mr. Prescott : If I heard the question correctly, the difference between the TSS and budget this year will be in the calculation of the expenditure.
 Mr. Prescott : Yes, I agree with my hon. Friend. The reassessment shows that Newham is in desperate need. It did not have a very high ranking under the assessment that I am changing. We make it clear that we are adjusting the programme so that Newham gets more resources. The present assessment is better than the previous one and is based on the greater needs in Newham. It is a good example of the way in which our fair assessment of the principles has applied.
 Mr. Prescott : That is exactly the same increase as the Tories allowed for—
 Mr. Prescott : Is the right hon. Gentleman suggesting that it was more than that? I say that it is precisely the same amount as the Opposition allowed for when they were in government. The facts are easily checked in the Library. Despite considerable criticism, we have accepted the public expenditure plans of the previous Chancellor of the Exchequer. 166
 Mr. Prescott : We will take no lectures from the Opposition spokesman on taxation, assessments of need, relationships with local authorities or the benefits that council tax payers got for their money under the previous Administration.
 The Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Mr. John Prescott) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I should like to make a statement about the local authority revenue finance settlement for England for 1998–99. The Secretary of State comes before the House at about this time each year to make a statement about local authority finance for the following financial year. 158 159 160 [Laughter.] 161 162 163 164
 Mr. John Swinney  (North Tayside) : The Minister said that his comments would not be marked by a long list of cuts to the welfare programme. There may not have been a long list, but there were cuts. Does he accept the growing anxiety about the Government's proposals to cut child benefit for lone parents? Will he give a commitment that the Government will think again about the concern that is being expressed and remove the relevant provisions in the Social Security Bill?
 Mr. Swinney : I thank the Secretary of State for his answer. At a time when unemployment in Scotland is at a higher level than in the rest of the United Kingdom, and with press reports this morning that more than 1,000 manufacturing jobs in Scotland are under threat, what can the Secretary of State do to persuade his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to follow some economic policy other than total dependence on interest rates as a means of slowing the overheating economy in the south-east of England, which has nothing to do with Scotland?
1.  Mr. Swinney : When he last met Scottish Enterprise to discuss job creation in Scotland. [17090]
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : May I challenge one aspect of my hon. Friend's admirable speech? He says that the acquis communautaire is in essence an irretrievable process—an irrecoverable process. As a sovereign Parliament, could we not, if we had the support of the British people, abrogate the treaty on union, as we could any other treaty? We could make a unilateral declaration of independence at any time of our choosing.
 Mr. Bradley : I have made the rates of child benefit for next year clear in my statement. Personal allowances and children's additions in income support will be uprated as normal. That will mean an increase in benefits. Lone mothers in low-paid work will benefit from the full uprating of family credit by the Rossi index. I have confirmed that the child care disregard will go up to £100 per week from next June. All those measures will help lone parents and their children. All Departments, including the Department of Social Security, always look carefully at new measures and evaluate them before undertaking the reforms that are necessary for a modern social security system.
 Mr. Bradley : I am grateful for my hon. Friend's comments. I recognise and value her expertise, particularly on housing benefit. We recognise that housing costs can be a critical element in decisions on general reform programmes. I assure my hon. Friend that we shall look carefully in our housing policy review at the disincentives that emanate from the current system in our welfare-to-work programme. I should be grateful if she could send any further comments on that to me at the Department.
 Mr. Bradley : The purpose of our reforms is to create opportunities and flexibility, so that people can move flexibly into work. Many lone parents want to work. The changes that we have made to family credit and the increase in the child care disregard to £100 will help to fund those proposals. The national child care strategy, with the development of 30,000 after-school and out-of-hours clubs to benefit up to 1 million children will help in that. Our package of measures will give real help to ensure that children do not remain in poverty and are able to benefit from the fruits of economic prosperity.
 Mr. Bradley : I am grateful for the obvious overwhelming support for the Government's reform programme, particularly the recognition of the introduction of a minimum wage. I shall refer the hon. Gentleman's comments to the Taylor review of the tax-benefit system. I am sure that his contribution will be valued. We recognise that many people have been dumped out of employment and on to benefit dependency at too early an age. That is not acceptable. I welcome the hon. Gentleman's recognition of that. It is unfortunate that the Conservatives did not recognise the value of people in that age group when they were in government and did not do anything to help them get into work, where many of them want to be.
 Mr. Bradley : I shall try to answer the hon. Gentleman's three questions. We recognise the plight of
 181
 Mr. Bradley : I am grateful for my hon. Friend's comments. He is right about the number of telegrams that are sent out. As a new Minister, I was surprised to learn that there is a dedicated official for that task because of the number of telegrams to be sent. My hon. Friend has raised important points, which our pensions review and our review of long-term care for elderly people must take into account. It is crucial that elderly people do not live in abject poverty.
 Mr. Bradley : I agree with your view, Madam Speaker. As I have said, there will be an opportunity for a full debate on the orders when they are presented to the House, before they are implemented.
 Mr. Bradley : I am well aware of my hon. Friend's continuing and effective championing of the plight of pensioners. I recognise that and pay tribute to him for it. Our pensions review will take into account the matters that he has raised; it is essential that it does.
 Mr. Bradley : May I clarify that? No employer will pay more on existing payrolls as a result of the freezing of the bands.
 Mr. Bradley : Clearly, we recognise the plight of pensioners who have not been able to make proper second-tier provision. That is why we are looking closely at those who are not claiming their income-related benefit—income support—to ensure that they at least come up to the minimum level. The pensions review recognises the plight of the poorest pensioners. I assure the House that representatives on that review will not let the Government forget it. Through that review, we will explore how we can most effectively help those poorest pensioners.
 Mr. Bradley : I thank my hon. Friend for his comments. As I mentioned in the statement, we recognise the importance of payment of child maintenance. It is not acceptable for the money not to go to the parent who cares for children. It is an essential element of such parents' income and they need to know that it will be reliably and efficiently received. That is why we are undertaking a fundamental review of the CSA. We hope to bring forward proposals on the matter in the first half of next year.
 Mr. Bradley : The Secretary of State has made it absolutely clear that compulsion is not the issue. We shall continue to work to help lone parents to get into work. That is what they want and that is what we shall continue to do.
 Mr. Bradley :.It is not the normal practice to announce when the uprating statement will be. In the past, the uprating statement has normally followed the Budget and it has been the Budget debate which has been announced. There is no problem there. 179
 Mr. Bradley : My hon. Friend always talks passionately, and rightly so, about the problems of his constituency and I hear clearly what he says. On his first point, I will refer his remarks about taxation to the Chancellor.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Social Security (Mr. Keith Bradley) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I should like to make a statement on the uprating of social security benefits and on the re-rating of national insurance contributions for 1998–99. I should also like to report on our objectives for reforming social security. 175 176 177
 Mr. Keith Simpson  (Mid-Norfolk) : I reinforce the comments of the hon. Member for Norwich, North (Dr. Gibson). There is a major impact not only on the north Norfolk coast, but on the whole of Norfolk and Suffolk and my constituency, which borders the Broads. All the people who live in the area feel that the environmental changes will have a major impact not just on the wildlife, but on the areas in which they live. As my hon. Friend said, unless action is taken soon, we will have to take retrospective action, when it will almost certainly be too late.
 Mr. Kenneth Clarke  (Rushcliffe) : This debate has run on for some time, and I have sat through quite a lot of it. I read the remainder of the debate—which, unfortunately, I had to miss—before this debate restarted. I propose to make a short speech, as we have gone on for some hours. 193 194
 Mr. Clarke : I am inclined to agree with my hon. Friend. In practice, if some military regime seized power and started abusing human rights, article F.1 might not be the end of the story. The European Union could not tolerate the situation indefinitely. 197
 Mr. Clarke : I do not agree with that. We use the European Court of Justice and it seeks to reach its decisions judicially. 198 199 —[Laughter.]— 200 201
 Mr. Clarke : All right—I give way just once.
 Mr. Clarke : No. I see that I am in danger of being drawn into the details of individual litigation. I will do that on another occasion.
 Mr. Clarke : I intended to comment on that, so I am happy to do so in response to the hon. Gentleman. I listened to my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard) last week, and I entirely share his commitment to human rights, in every ordinary sense of that phrase. He went out of his way to emphasise the fact that no one in the Conservative party challenges the principles of human rights, the need to protect individual liberty and free speech, and the right to demonstrate, to have parliamentary democracy and to be governed by the rule of law. There is no division in our party on those principles. 195 196
 Mr. Laurence Robertson  (Tewkesbury) : My background is in industry. I started on the shop floor at the age of 18 and eventually moved into industrial management. I have had many clients over the years and worked with many thousands of people. I have also been active in small business—it was getting smaller and smaller—for about 14 years. The nearer the election came, the smaller it got. 252 253 "My company is product of the Thatcher revolution. Founded in 1984 with just eight people, we now employ approaching 300. Our growth is directly attributable to changed attitudes in both the factory floor and management. We have built up a worthwhile export business. What I do not understand is why sensible British businessmen should see any advantage in belonging to such a high cost club."
 Mr. Chisholm : Ministers have given approval for the Tarbert service to continue for the summer of 1998 pending further consideration in the comprehensive spending review. A report commissioned by the previous Government on the Gourock-Dunoon service is awaited. It will examine a number of options, and the recommendations will be carefully considered. I remind the hon. Lady that in 1981, when there was a proposal totally to withdraw the CalMac service on that route, my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State gave evidence for the objectors at the public inquiry.
 Mr. Chisholm : Of course we shall consult local bodies when we have received the report and I shall also be delighted to meet my hon. Friend to discuss the matter.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Malcolm Chisholm) : The Government are committed to safeguarding appropriate lifeline ferry services for communities in the highlands and islands, and to maintaining Caledonian MacBrayne in the public sector. The level of service on individual routes within the Caledonian MacBrayne network is regularly reviewed by the Scottish Office and the company in the light of changing service requirements, the introduction of new vessels and other relevant factors.
 Mr. Campbell : It would make it more exclusive.
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : How many of the principals of Scottish universities whom the Minister and his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State have met have given unequivocal support to the proposal for tuition fees, especially bearing in mind the effect that the proposal will have on students from other parts of the United Kingdom deciding to come to Scottish universities?
 Mr. Connarty : Is my hon. Friend aware of the excellent joint ventures across borders between, for example, Elf of France and BP in my constituency at Grangemouth, or Toatsu of Japan and Zeneca in my constituency, or Rhom and Haas and its Japanese partners? Does he agree that it is the stability of the relationships between Scotland and the regions of England that has created these? In fact, in the chemical industries people do not talk about Scotland, England or other parts of the UK, but about east coast Britain, which goes from Teesside to the Don in Aberdeen. Does not the small-minded and hypocritical approach of the Conservatives merely continue the attempt to divide people and to prevent decent partnerships from being put together between the private and the public sectors, which has always been their strategy?
 Mr. Howard : The amendments deal with European social policy, in particular the scrapping of Britain's opt-out from the social chapter, and the new employment chapter agreed at Amsterdam. Let me make it clear at the outset that the Conservative party is opposed to both. We believe that they will lead to more regulation, less flexibility and lost jobs. They are bad for Britain and bad for Europe. "a paradise for Japanese investment". 249 "Excessively high German labour costs are costing more and more German jobs." "we have too rigid labour laws. We have too high social costs and taxes. We have the shortest working week in Europe. The German Government spends 50 per cent. of GDP as opposed to 42 per cent. in Britain. No wonder we have problem." The Wall Street Journal "Britain imposes a much lower burden of social charges on employers than any other European country. British social taxes were less than half those in Switzerland, 40 per cent. of those in Germany and 29 per cent. of those in France." Le Monde "if unemployment is dropping in Britain it is because they have done everything to deserve it. For several years, considerable efforts have been made to improve the workings of the labour market, thereby boosting job and new company creations". "If you sign up to the social chapter," "you can't actually be sure that you'll have your way, because some directives will be covered by qualified majority voting. There is, however, a way to pick and choose, and that is available to the Labour party if it wants to have it as its policy. The way to pick and choose is actually not to sign up to the social chapter." 250 "Well, er, we shall see how things go." "the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European parliament, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Employment Committee…shall year draw up guidelines which the Member States shall take into account in their employment policies." "acting by a qualified majority on a recommendation from the Commission, may, if it considers it appropriate in the light of that examination, make recommendations to Member States." 251
 Mr. Howard : I beg to move amendment No. 3, in page 1, line 13, after '2', insert '(except paragraph 19)'.
 Mr. Howard : I shall attempt to be brief. We have had a good and wide-ranging debate. It is true, and I acknowledge it, that not every speech from my hon. Friends has been identical with the speech before or after. Nor would I wish that to happen, because the Conservative party does not encourage the kind of clone-like attitude that we see from the Labour party. 230
 Mr. Howard : As the hon. Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney (Mr. Rowlands) has said, I deployed my arguments on this matter fairly fully last Thursday and I do not intend to go over the same ground again. I would like, however, briefly to respond to the points that the hon. Gentleman has just made. 238
 Mr. Michael Howard  (Folkestone and Hythe) : Does the hon. Gentleman recall my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke) saying that there was no guarantee that the provisions would be interpreted in that way? Their interpretation is to be entirely at the behest of the other member states. Would it not be better if a power were taken in the treaty to expel any member state that was in serious and fundamental breach of human rights rather than attempting to hold that state to its obligations while depriving it of rights?
 Mr. Howard : I do not want to raise false expectations on the Minister's behalf. If that is indeed the explanation—it may be the explanation on a proper reading of the relevant portions of the treaty—why on earth does the treaty not make it clear that the article is based on unanimity? Why on earth does it use such circuitous language? Why does it use the language of qualified majority voting instead of saying straight out that such matters will be decided on the basis of unanimity?
 Mr. Howard : If business is so keen on the social chapter, why has even the director-general of the Confederation of British Industry advised against doing anything about the opt-out, as I pointed out in my speech?
 The First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : With this, it will be convenient to discuss amendment No. 8, in page 1, line 13, at end insert
 '(except Article 2 paragraph 57)'.
 Sir Michael Spicer : The Scottish higher education budget is part of a wider education budget for Scotland. It is a matter of fact that that budget, per head of population, is 25 per cent. higher than it is for England. How long will that situation continue for Scotland, when the income differentials between England and Scotland have narrowed almost to nothing?
 Mr. Gapes : Listening to some of the Conservative Members' speeches has reminded me of the old saying, "Just because you are paranoid doesn't mean they are not out to get you." Conservatives have the view that, as the hon. Member for Tewkesbury (Mr. Robertson) said, we are less European. Geographically and culturally, people in the United Kingdom are European. We have been members of the European Community and then the European Union for many years. We have had a role and we have had an opportunity to shape the future of Europe and the European Union. 254 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Mike Gapes  (Ilford, South) : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that the policies about which he is complaining were introduced as a result of the Single European Act, which was introduced by Baroness Thatcher and the Government whom he supported? Therefore, he should criticise himself rather than the European Union.
 Mr. Gapes : This Government have to represent the interests of workers as well as those of big business.
 255
 Mr. Gapes : The hon. Gentleman should consult some of the largest multinational companies that operate in Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom and ask them whether they had adopted different provisions that affected the way in which they treated their employees. In many cases, they had not.
 Mr. Gapes : Nothing has been given away, in the sense that the hon. Gentleman suggests. We have gained the right to influence discussion in a European Union with a single market containing multinational companies and transnational corporations that operate in this country. The largest of those had already started to apply the provisions of the social chapter to their work forces in the European Union single market, including those employed in the United Kingdom. Therefore, by signing up to the social chapter, the British Government and people have an opportunity to influence provisions that are already being applied and are indirectly influencing employment conditions for employees of British companies that are subsidiaries of European or multinational companies.
 Mr. Gapes : In a moment. I am addressing my remarks to the hon. Gentleman who is shouting at me.
 Mr. Gapes : If the hon. Gentleman studies the social chapter and the social provisions, he will notice that there are size limits in the regulations and that the smallest companies are not expected to comply.
 Mr. Gapes : The hon. Gentleman says, "Shame." The European People's party—the group in the European parliament of which Conservative MEPs and their party are members—talks about the social partnership. It believes that it is important to have a dialogue and a relationship with both sides of industry, and that it is important to build consensus on employment legislation for the future of all the people of this continent. That European model—the Christian Democrat, Social Democrat and Liberal consensus on the socialartnership—will lead to success in European economies in the long term.
 Mr. Gapes : I apologise, Sir Alan. I am happy to give way to the hon. Member for South-West Devon if he wishes to make a point without shouting at me from a sedentary position. He obviously does not, so I shall give way to the hon. Member for New Forest, West (Mr. Swayne).
 Mr. Gapes : For the hon. Gentleman's information, unemployment in this country has fallen since the Labour Government signed up to the social chapter. Therefore, the argument that increasing unemployment is related to the social chapter cannot be used—it is palpably untrue. There are many complex reasons for unemployment. They include our position in the business cycle, which is why my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer has said that we do not meet the convergence criteria for the single currency. The business cycle in different European states is at different points.
 Mr. Gapes : I dealt with that point in my answer to the hon. Member for Rochford and Southend, East. Regrettably, since 1945, living standards in this country have fallen below those of France and Germany. That is not unrelated to the fact that, for the bulk of that period, this country has, unfortunately, been under Conservative Governments. According to recent statistics, living standards in this country are below those of EU countries which, historically, were not as affluent as the UK.
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : I beg to ask leave to move the Adjournment of the House, under Standing Order No. 24, to debate an important matter that requires specific and urgent consideration, namely,
 the blockading of Welsh ports by farmers at Holyhead and Fishguard, and threats that the illegal action will spread. 187
 Sir Norman Fowler indicated dissent.
 Sir Norman Fowler  (Sutton Coldfield) : Government Back Benchers cheer, but I doubt that very many will cheer once the implications of the statement have been understood. Whatever else he has done, has not the Secretary of State opened the way for major over-inflation increases in council tax next year, which will affect millions of ordinary council tax payers throughout the country? Does he accept that the net result of what he has announced today will be that council tax bills could rise by as much as 10 per cent. next year? Does he realise that, for many elderly people, that wipes out at a stroke any advantage that they might have had from the winter payment scheme? "make no allowance for inflation, the cost of pay increases or the cost of providing extra services for the growing number of old people and of children at school"?—[ Official Report "We have no plans to increase tax at all"? 165
 Sir Norman Fowler indicated dissent.
 Mr. Letwin : All of us throughout the Chamber know what is meant, and we all agree that it is necessary to do something about a member state in such circumstances. Does my hon. Friend agree, however, that sometimes, regrettably, there has been a tendency for the European Court to apply interpretations of clauses in treaties that go far beyond the ordinary meaning of those terms, with a view to establishing certain patterns of integration? Does he agree that that could give rise to the problems to which my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard) alluded?
 Mr. Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Letwin : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman, who has been extremely patient. Moreover, by sitting down for a moment, he may rescue himself from imminent explosion. How many years of persistent high unemployment on the continent of Europe would it take to convince him that there is a structural problem? Would 20 do, or 30, 40 or 50? At some point, presumably, his view of the economic cycle would collapse. Could he give us some guidance?
 Mr. Paul Burstow  (Sutton and Cheam) : We on the Liberal Democrat Benches welcome the Secretary of State's announcement on the local government finance review. Liberal Democrats want a more accountable system, which raises tax on the basis of ability to pay and guarantees greater freedom of action for local councils. 167
 Mr. Peter Brooke  (Cities of London and Westminster) : Will the Secretary of State expand, preferably without rhetoric, on what he described as the fair account or amount for visitors and, in particular, commuters?
 Mr. Peter L. Pike  (Burnley) : Is it not a fact that the previous Government's final two statements at this time of the year on local authority financing did not fully fund education, which meant that local authorities had to squeeze other services? Does not it mark a significant change of direction that the new Labour Government are making a full commitment to funding £835 million, which shows that they are committed both to fairness and to local government?
 Mr. Pike : Was it not a fact that, in the debate on the report by the Select Committee on Modernisation of the House of Commons, it became clear that the carry-over of certain legislation would lead to the better distribution of legislation? Was it not particularly notable that a well-respected former Leader of the House, the right hon. Member for South Norfolk (Mr. MacGregor), wished to go even further than the report suggested?
 Mr. Phil Woolas  (Oldham, East and Saddleworth) : My question is straightforward. Does the Prime Minister— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Morgan : I thank my right hon. Friend for her reply. Has she received any representations about better protection of time for private Members' Bills? For example, has she received any representations that any private Member's Bill that gets a majority greater than one third of the total membership of the House should be able to proceed without let or hindrance from delaying tactics? I say that in the hope of encouraging private Members to be more proactive, rather than "Prozactive".
38.  Mr. Rhodri Morgan : What are the main recommendations of the Select Committee on Modernisation of the House of Commons which  (a) (b) (c)
 Mr. Robert Jackson  (Wantage) : It has been suggested that it would be preferable to expel a member state rather than suspend it in those conditions. Does my right hon. and learned Friend agree that the legal complexities, and the consequences and ramifications, of expulsion of a member state, including the suspension of contracts and the possibility of actions arising therefrom, would be so great that, in effect, the sanction would become a useless deterrent, whereas a suspension in the conditions that he has described would provide a relatively effective redress?
 Mr. Roger Casale  (Wimbledon) : The right hon. and learned Gentleman mentioned the importance of human rights in the context of European integration and enlargement to include eastern and central Europe. Does he agree with the shadow Foreign Secretary, who objected to the way in which human rights clauses were to be incorporated, referring especially to the importance of procedures for triggering sanctions in cases of human rights abuse? Surely it is crucial that, when we enlarge to include countries in central and eastern Europe, we anchor those countries' commitment to human rights.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Sam Galbraith) : I understand that the East and Midlothian NHS trust expects to submit a revised outline business case for the hospital to the NHS management executive by the end of this month.
 Mr. Galbraith : I like to think that one of the differences that I have made to the health agenda is the recognition of the link between poverty and ill health, something that was always denied before. The problem relates not only to housing but to jobs, education, transport, leisure and recreation. Only when we have got these things right can people genuinely make choices, so we have not only to present them with information about the choices but to give them the economic wherewithal to improve their health.
 Mr. Galbraith : I have absolutely no problem with that. Poor housing is undoubtedly one of the links to ill health. We recognise that. It will be re-emphasised in our Green Paper. Recently, however, we have taken measures to deal with the problem. We have reduced value added tax on materials for insulating houses from 17.5 to 5 per cent. and the welfare-to-work programme contains a special option to insulate houses. We are taking action that will benefit the health of the whole nation.
 Mr. Galbraith : I think I can give my hon. Friend an absolute assurance that no hospital will close until suitable alternative facilities are in place. The timing for development of the new hospital is a matter for the trust and the board, but I know that, with a doughty fighter such as him taking up an interest, the hospital will progress as quickly as possible.
 Mr. Galbraith : Since October, 127 representations have been addressed to the Department, almost all in response to a campaign by Shelter. The links between housing and health are clear, as our forthcoming Green Paper on the subject will mention.
 Mr. Simon Burns  (West Chelmsford) : I thank the Minister for his statement. Will he accept that, in the past, this significant annual statement has been dealt with by the Secretary of State for Social Security, and that, at the previous week's business statement, it was customary for the Leader of the House to publish the date of the uprating announcement? I am mildly surprised that no answer was given to my right hon. Friend the Member for South-West Norfolk (Mrs. Shephard), who raised the matter at business questions, and that we have had such short notice of it today. 178 "Cuts in lone mothers' benefits make the poorest families poorer"?—[ Official Report "to promote financial security in retirement"
 Mr. Burns : Will the Minister please tell the House categorically whether the Government have any plans at all in the new deal for lone parents to bring in compulsion, as there is compulsion in welfare to work for young people? Yes or no?
 Mr. Stephen Timms  (East Ham) : I particularly welcome the new emphasis on fairness in my right hon. Friend's announcement, and the change to the treatment of capital financing charges in the formula. Will he join me in paying tribute to the long fight by the Newham Needs campaign for the abolition of the concept of notional debt, which played such a significant part of the formula used by the Conservatives?
 Mr. Dalyell : Is this not actually a matter for the Speaker? Is there not a precedent in the fact that Mr. Speaker Selwyn-Lloyd on one famous occasion simply told the official Opposition that enough was enough?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : Is my hon. Friend aware that, in the year that I was elected to the House, Buckingham palace sent just over 200 telegrams of congratulation to those who had reached their 100th birthday? Last year, the palace sent 5,460. Anecdotally and from constituency experience—I have no definite evidence—I suspect that many nursing homes and homes for old people do not take up the income support that people in their late 90s are unable to claim themselves. Will that be addressed in the review? Will something be done to help carers, who play an increasingly important role?
 Mr. Rowlands : I beg to move amendment No. 2, in Page 1, line 13, after 'Articles', insert
 1, paragraph 9 (Cm. 3780, page 10)'.
 Mr. Rowlands : The amendment was designed to offer the Committee the opportunity to discuss the new article F.1, but it has been made semi-redundant by the contributions to the previous debate, so I hope to be brief. Hansard 234 235 "The operation of Slovakia's institutions is characterised by the fact that the government does not sufficiently respect the powers devolved by the constitution to other bodies and that it too often disregards the rights of the opposition. The constant tension between the government and the resident of the Republic is one example of this. Similarly, the way in which the government recently ignored the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Central Referendum Commission on the occasion of the vote on 23/24 May 1997 directly threatened the stability of the institutions." "Despite recommendations made by the European Union in a number of demarches and declarations, there has been no noticeable improvement." 236 "need to be reinforced by fuller respect in practice for the rule of law, at all levels of public administration". "the operation of the judicial system" "to protect individual liberties in the face of too frequent abuses by the police and the secret services."
 Mr. Rowlands : I defer to the hon. Gentleman's more detailed knowledge of the political performance of members of the current Union. I cannot think of any immediate examples of member states seriously abusing human rights. If the hon. Gentleman can, perhaps he will list them in his speech. As I understand it, the safeguards will apply to current members as well. I do find it difficult to believe that the sort of breaches envisaged in this article are being committed by any of the present 15 member states—but if they are, we should be aware of them and shoulder perhaps invoke a procedure to deal with them. There might be some virtue in that.
 Mr. Rowlands : On this occasion, I accept my hon. Friend's reasons for not accepting the amendment. I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment.
 Mr. Ted Rowlands  (Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney) : If we can have inflation targets, monetary targets and deficit targets, why can we not have employment targets?
 Sir Teddy Taylor  (Rochford and Southend, East) : My hon. Friend the Member for Wycombe (Sir R. Whitney) and I have been in the House of Commons for a very long time. That being so, it is only fair to tell my younger hon. Friends that, although we have great respect for my hon. Friend's sincerity, kindness, aptitude and integrity—I am sure that he is kind to animals as well—he has been wildly optimistic about all the previous treaties that we have signed. There are those of us who have said that it would all end up in a horrible mess, and we have been proved right. 241 242
 Sir Teddy Taylor : Younger Members who are conscientious and good attenders sometimes do not check their facts. I assure the hon. Gentleman that I voted against every single clause of the Single European Act. He is trying to make party political points when we are talking about democracy, and that is what is wrong with
 243
 Sir Teddy Taylor : You are absolutely right, Mr. Martin. I am sorry that I was distracted. This is what happens. We try to make a conclusive case, younger Members sometimes ask questions, which I am sure are well intentioned, and we get diverted. [Interruption.] 244
 Sir Teddy Taylor  (Rochford and Southend, East) : Is the Deputy Prime Minister aware of the special situation in Southend-on-Sea where, incidentally, we had five gains from Labour and no losses on 1 May? It will become unitary in May and will totally break away from the county of Essex. Southend has a much higher than average share of social problems because of the number of bed-and-breakfast establishments and houses in multiple occupation. It also has a much higher than average percentage of elderly people and a much higher percentage of unemployment than the rest of Essex. Will those factors be taken into account in assessing our needs in comparison with those of Essex?
 Sir Teddy Taylor : What does the hon. Gentleman think is causing the horrendous level of unemployment, which is getting worse, on the continent of Europe?
 Mr. Terry Rooney  (Bradford, North) : When will the Government move to a triennial review system and get away from this annual nonsense? Will my right hon. Friend promise not to visit Bradford, because every time a Conservative Minister visited Bradford, we lost money?
 Mr. Rooney : Does my right hon. Friend agree that extra time would not be needed if certain hon. Members recognised the will of the House as expressed last Friday and did not try to obstruct it?
 Mr. Tony Baldry  (Banbury) : Is the Deputy Prime Minister aware that Oxfordshire is already threatened by the closure of day centres and by a reduction in provision for respite care and home help? The situation is desperate. The right hon. Gentleman's figures propose for Oxfordshire a reduction of nearly £2 million in the provision for personal social services. How on earth can people there be expected to accept a year-on-year reduction, when they already face a critical situation? Is not the consequence of his statement for Oxfordshire and for other counties that the most vulnerable will be hit and will have a substantial hike in their council tax bills?
 Mr. Baldry : What about social services?
 Mr. Baldry : But not in social services.
3.  Mr. Baldry : If he will make a statement on the interdepartmental concordat relating to inward investment in respect of Scotland. [17092]
 Mr. Baldry : Is not the concordat really a con on the people of Scotland? The Government are seeking to give the impression that a Scottish Parliament will have control over inward investment into Scotland when the reality
 145
 Mr. Tony McWalter  (Hemel Hempstead) : I thank my hon. Friend for his statement. Will he reflect on his rather anodyne words about the Child Support Agency, which is a vital component of social security? It would be more appropriate to describe its operations with alarm, especially as the resources that it is allocated for the detection and pursuit of people who evade its operations seem to be very low. Does my hon. Friend think that the agency should be deemed not the Child Support Agency
 185
 Mrs. Taylor : I answered that point earlier, to a certain extent, but my hon. Friend is entitled to make it again. If Conservative Members do not frustrate the Wild Mammals (Hunting with Dogs) Bill which was given a Second Reading last Friday, there is no reason why it should not progress further.
 Mrs. Taylor : Yes, I can give an assurance that, when we are considering changes to the rota—which may occasionally happen, depending on the pressures and the wishes of the House for more time for certain Departments—there will be consultations through the usual channels. We have had very few representations criticising the current format of Prime Minister's Question Time. As I said, many Back Benchers seem to approve of the fact that more Back Benchers now have an opportunity to question the Prime Minister.
 Mrs. Taylor : One of the most disappointing things about last Friday was the intervention by the hon. Member
 155
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : The annual nature of the legislative programme inevitably means that it cannot be spread evenly throughout the Session. The possibility of carry-over, which was approved by the House on 13 November, creates an opportunity to improve the House's consideration of Bills. I hope that we shall be able to test that out on appropriate occasions.
 Mrs. Taylor : I thank my hon. Friend for reminding me of that point. It is true that the very distinguished former Leader of the House, who happens to be in his place this afternoon, strongly supported the principle of carry-over. I am pleased that the second report by the House of Lords Select Committee on Procedure also accepts that there is a case for the carry-over of some Government Bills. This is the first Session of this Parliament; I am not sure whether there will be any Bills that are candidates during this Session. I hope that we can move towards looking at
 156
 Mrs. Taylor : I do not think that there is anything I can add on that Bill. I believe that, post-Jopling, there have been a number of useful extra opportunities for hon. Members to raise issues. The Wednesday morning debates, for example, have proved extremely important for Back Benchers; that comment is slightly wide of the hon. Gentleman's original point. I believe that it is a question of swings and roundabouts, and that the interests of Back Benchers have been protected.
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : A new style of Order Paper has been implemented. The recommendations of the Modernisation Committee on the legislative process were approved by the House on 13 November. I am pleased that none of the recommendations has been rejected.
 Mrs. Taylor : I do not monitor those figures.
 Mrs. Taylor : I sat through some of Scottish Question Time and I noticed that at 3 o'clock we were still on Question 3. I did not hear all the exchanges, so I do not know the reason for that. I know from conversations on the Bench that Scottish Ministers were disappointed by that situation.
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : We will review the rota from time to time. There have not been many criticisms of the existing rota, but I am always willing to listen to representations.
 Mrs. Taylor : Madam Speaker, it might be better if I left that to you.
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : Allowances for hon. Members are provided by resolution of the House. Claims and payments are handled by the Fees Office, whose systems are designed to ensure accountability for the taxpayers' money involved.
 Mrs. Taylor : I think that hon. Members have a duty to ensure that our own systems are transparent and that we are as accountable as people in other spheres of public service. I realise that there has been additional paperwork for hon. Members, but I think that the vast majority of them are not finding it difficult to comply with the regulations.
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : The new arrangements have been in use for barely six months, and I have no plans to review them.
 Mrs. Taylor : The public, like the House, have made their views on certain private Members' Bills very clear.
 Mrs. Taylor : I can confirm that my hon. Friend was absolutely on message about increasing the role of Parliament. I realise that Back Benchers have opportunities to be proactive, and that he is one of those who takes many of those opportunities and uses them to good effect. The Standing Orders of the House provide 13 Fridays in each Session for private Members' Bills. I know that some hon. Members think that that is not enough, but it is a rule of the House.
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman was, I think, asking about Prime Minister's Question Time and accountability. Before I came into the Chamber, I checked the number of questions asked of the Prime Minister in the last week
 154
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : I have no plans to do so.
 Mrs. Taylor : I have some sympathy with the hon. Gentleman. There have been occasions when the official Opposition have taken a very long time, but there are of course times when a statement is complex and detailed questions have to be answered. However, I think that we could probably improve the situation.
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : I have not considered any changes to the House's rules on this, but I know that you, Madam Speaker, have often called for shorter questions and shorter answers, both on statements and at Question Time.
 Mrs. Laing : Will the Minister assure the House that the provisions that he outlined will extend to hon. Members whose constituencies neighbour that of the hon. Member for Glasgow, Govan (Mr. Sarwar), whom we are delighted, if rather surprised, to see in his place?
 Mrs. Dunwoody : On 12 December, my birthday.
 Mrs. Gwyneth Dunwoody  (Crewe and Nantwich) : I beg to move,
 That leave be given to bring in a Bill to create a National Transport Safety Authority. 189 190
 Mrs. Michie : The Minister must be aware of the increasing concern that Caledonian MacBrayne is not able
 148
4.  Mrs. Ray Michie : If he will ensure that the present level of Caledonian MacBrayne ferry services is maintained. [17093]
 Mrs. McKenna : I welcome my hon. Friend's statement. Does he agree that access to higher education
 143
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley  (South-West Surrey) : The right hon. Gentleman made much of fairness and consultation. The town and country issues group of authorities represents a series of towns that dominate a rural hinterland. Will he or his Minister of State agree to meet that group, so that it can put its case direct to Ministers rather than through consultations with the Local Government Association? They can then hear its arguments for themselves.
 Audrey Wise  (Preston) : My hon. Friend said that all children should be supported by their working parents. For lone parents, that implies full-time work, as one part-time job is not enough to support a family. Will he clarify what he means? Will he also tell the House why child care is regarded as a job if done by a stranger, but not if done by the child's mother or father?
 Ms Beverley Hughes 
(Stretford and Urmston) : I welcome the statement. If I had achieved such a settlement from the previous Government in the years when I was leader of a council, I would genuinely have been very pleased. Does my right hon. Friend agree that the total spending on personal services represents an increase of about 5.8 per cent.? That increase, together with the retention of the community care grant in special transitional grant and the increase in money for children's services, will be widely welcomed. It gives the lie to the contention of Conservative Members that personal social services would be cut in the settlement.
 Ms Margaret Moran  (Luton, South) :: I welcome the opportunities that my hon. Friend outlined to move the poorest from welfare to work. As part of his review, will he consider the opportunity for substantial housing benefit savings that might be afforded through rent reductions? Does he accept that a 10 per cent. rent reduction would not only afford substantial housing benefit savings, but could offer many households the chance to move from welfare to work, alleviating the poverty trap?
 Ms Squire : Like my hon. Friends, I represent a constituency that has felt the full impact of large-scale unemployment. Will my right hon. Friend join me in paying tribute to the success of local authorities and local enterprise companies that work together on job creation, especially in Fife, where we have the fast-track skills seekers youth employment initiative involving 1,100 businesses, and where we have attracted inward investment? Will my right hon. Friend also join me in welcoming the unequivocal commitment offered by Hyundai last week to establish 800 new jobs in Dunfermline by this time next year?
 Ms Rosie Winterton  (Doncaster, Central) : Will my right hon. Friend give further consideration to a point that I have raised previously with Ministers, about allowing local authorities to use their collection funds accumulated from successful council tax collection schemes to alleviate their financial difficulties? Does he agree that that would not increase the amount ultimately paid by council tax payers, but could go some way to improve services for them?
 Mr. Steve Webb  (Northavon) : I welcome many aspects of the statement, but I want to press the Minister to look more closely at three aspects of it. First, will he look at provision for pensioners aged over 80? As happened under the Conservatives, the Minister has chosen to freeze the extra help for the over-80s at just 25p a week, which is an insulting amount. Does not he accept that pensioners over 80 are the poorest in the land and that many of them do not claim income support? Converting that 25p into a worthwhile sum such as £5 a week would guarantee help for the poorest and would give them not £20 a year, but £20 a month.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Second Reading what day?
 The Chairman of Ways and Means (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : I remind the Committee that with this we are taking the following amendments: No. 13, in page 1, line 13, after '(i)', insert
 'Article 1 (other than paragraph 1)'. 'Article 1 (other than paragraph 3)'. 'Article 1 (other than paragraph 5)'. 'Article 1 (other than paragraph 10)'. 'Article 1 (other than paragraph 11)'. 'Article 1 (other than paragraph 12)'. 'Article 1 (other than paragraph 13)'. 'Article 1 (other than paragraph 14)'. '1, other than the words in paragraph 5, (Cm. 3780, page 9) "and through the establishment of economic and monetary union, ultimately including a single currency in accordance with the provisions of this Treaty".'. Extension of jurisdiction of European Court of Justice: legal advice— '.—This Act shall not come into force until Her Majesty's Government has obtained specific legal advice from the Attorney General setting out the extent to which the provisions on police and judicial co-operation in criminal matters in Article 1 para 11 of the Treaty of Amsterdam extend the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice in the United Kingdom, such advice to form the basis of a report to each House of Parliament and to be subject to an affirmative resolution.'. Relations between European Union and WEU— '—The Government will not take any steps to foster relations between the European Union and the WEU with the view to the possibility of the integration of the WEU into the Union,
 192 Common foreign and security policy— '—The Government shall not take any steps to participate in the decision making arrangements as set out in Article 1 paragraph 10 [Article J.13 1 and 2] of the Treaty of Amsterdam, without first tabling a motion in each House of Parliament which shall be subject to affirmative resolution.'.
 The Chairman : Order. I should like to assist the Committee. This is a wide grouping of amendments, but it is not infinitely wide. I sense that the Committee is in danger of repeating the Second Reading debate, which would be out of order. I remind hon. Members that there is a debate arranged for Thursday, when it will be possible to roam far and wide on the subject of the European Union.
 The Chairman of Ways and Means (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. I hope that the hon. Gentleman is addressing his remarks to the Chairman.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. The hon. Gentleman must resume his seat when I am on my feet. This is an Adjournment debate in which a short intervention is permitted, but not a speech—unless the hon. Gentleman has the prior permission both of the hon. Member who initiated the debate and of the Minister.
 Sir Patrick Cormack : What attempt has the Leader of the House made to discover hon. Members' reaction to the change? Is she aware that many hon. Members who sat in the previous Parliament do not believe that an improvement has been made? Will she also give the House a total assurance that there will be no more arbitrary changes to our procedures without consultation?
 Sir Paul Beresford : What does the Deputy Prime Minister anticipate will be the difference between the local authority TSS and budget next year compared with the TSS and budget this year?
 Sir Paul Beresford  (Mole Valley) : What does the Deputy Prime Minister anticipate will happen to the difference between local government total standard spending and budget next year compared with this year?
 Sir Peter Tapsell : The hon. Gentleman has just said what people are perpetually saying, which is that the economic cycle in Britain is different from that on the continent of Europe. The whole point of economics is to try to influence economic cycles. The reason why our economic cycle is in a beneficial phase is that we left the exchange rate mechanism in 1992. The reason why European countries are in a bad economic cycle is that they stayed within it.
 Sir Peter Tapsell  (Louth and Horncastle) : My hon. Friend is saying that markets are driving these matters but, if that is so, does he not think that they are driving them in a curious way? Today, there are FF10 and almost DM3 to the pound. No one who has considered the practicalities has ever suggested that we would join the single currency at a rate higher than DM2.6 to the pound. How would we relate to the practical currency in practical terms? One of the reasons why sterling is so strong against the deutschmark and the French franc is precisely that the international markets think that we are not going to join the euro, because it will be a disaster. If it is a disaster, it is better to be out than in.
 Sir Raymond Whitney : No, I do not agree. I suggest that my hon. Friend read article F.1 of the treaty. He will see that, before the matter ever came near the court, it would have to be approved by unanimity minus one—that one being the state in the dock. It is for the Council of Ministers to make the judgment and activate the other criteria—one third of the Council to bring the charge and two thirds of the European parliament to go along with the conviction, so to speak. At a subsequent stage, if the accused state wanted to apply to the European Court of Justice, it would have a right to do so. 240
 Sir Raymond Whitney : My right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard) is right, and we would all agree that the Committee has a duty to examine legislation such as this, especially legislation of an international nature, to make sure that there are no traps or hidden dangers or faint possibilities that might endanger our national interest. However, there is a danger of that awareness and alertness turning into paranoia. We can take matters so far that they verge on the absurd. 239
 Sir Raymond Whitney  (Wycombe) : Do my hon. Friend's concerns, which, on the whole, I do not share, about the possibility of Britain joining the single currency lead him to conclude that we should never in any circumstances join a single currency union, whatever the impact on Britain, because of the fundamental objections that he sees? Therefore, it is not a question of postponing a decision for five years, 10 years, or whatever; it is a question of saying never.
 Sir Raymond Whitney : I am listening to my hon. Friend with great interest, not least because he and I have collaborated in the past on many ventures. On this issue our views are somewhat different. Is he not satisfied that the Amsterdam treaty clearly secures the role of the Western European Union and its relationship with the European Union rather better than was done by the Maastricht treaty, which I am sure my hon. Friend would also condemn? Surely that was, from his point of view, a step forward. The close relationship between the WEU and NATO is not challenged or threatened. My hon. Friend is concerned about the potential loss of sovereignty. He spoke about our NATO defence obligations. Does he agree that to some extent our membership of and commitment to NATO are a derogation of our sovereignty?
 Sir Robert Smith : I thank the Minister for that answer. In the light of the representations and the fact
 151
7.  Sir Robert Smith : What representations the Scottish Health Department has received since October about the links between poor housing conditions and public health. [17096]
 Mr. Deputy Speaker(Mr. Michael J.Martin) : Order. I am sorry to interrupt the hon. Gentleman's speech, but he was turning his back to the Chair. That is not the done thing in the Chamber, so perhaps he would address the Chair occasionally.
 Mr. Alan Williams : Will the Secretary of State give full weight in his considerations to the fact that he could come to Swansea at a fraction of the cost of staying in Cardiff? Will he bear in mind the fact that it is a matter not only of property values but of the fact that the guildhall in Swansea needs absolutely no refurbishment and could literally be moved into at a week's notice? Will he further bear it in mind that we in south-west Wales welcome the chance to benefit from the one piece of inward investment that is completely within his personal control?
 Mr. öpik : Does the Minister agree that the agricultural elements of Wales are suffering desperately due to the Conservative legacy of BSE and the export ban? Does he further agree that the Government must now reinstate proper funding and finance to reinvest in the ailing agricultural industry in Wales?
 Mr. Gareth Thomas : Does my hon. Friend agree that the establishment of a Welsh Assembly provides a much-needed opportunity to formulate an economic strategy for Wales and to address the prosperity gap to which he referred?
 Hon. Members : Reading.
 Several hon. Members rose—
 The First Deputy Chairman : With this, it will be convenient to discuss the following amendments: No. 67, in page 1, line 1·3, after '2', insert '(except paragraph 32)'. '(except Article 2 paragraph 44)'. 'except Article 2(16)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 6)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 12)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 13)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 14)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 21)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 23)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 24)'. 443 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 26)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 27)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 28)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 29)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 31)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 32)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 33)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 34)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 35)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 36)'. 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 44)'.
 The First Deputy Chairman : Order. The hon. Gentleman cannot make a speech in an intervention.
 The Second Deputy Chairman : I am well aware that the hon. Gentleman was answering a question, but I would be grateful if he would now get back to the amendment in hand.
 Mr. Alan W. Williams  (East Carmarthen and Dinefwr) : I congratulate my right hon. Friend on coming to the House immediately on receiving SEAC's advice. The consumer will want to know why the information was not available five or 10 years ago. Why was research on infectivity not carried out by the previous Government?
 Mr. Williams : Why not?
 Dr. Cunningham : Because that is the way in which British government operates. If my hon. Friend is dissatisfied with that, I share his view; but that is how things are, and I cannot change it just for the moment.
 Dr. Cunningham : At least I can congratulate the hon. Gentleman on his first statement, that the most important message to send out today is that we are taking all the necessary action to ensure that British beef is as safe as any in Europe, and safer than most. I share that conclusion, but I cannot agree with the rest of what he had to say.
 Dr. Cunningham : As I made clear to the hon. Lady, bone will not be designated as a specified risk material. There is no question of a large amount of additional material being disposed of, because, as I pointed out and as my hon. Friend will recall, 95 per cent. of beef is already sold off the bone. Only a small amount of additional material is involved, and none of it will be allowed to be put to any use in the human food chain. Bone will be disposed of as it has been disposed of in the past when it has not been used in any manufacturing process.
 Dr. Cunningham : As I hope the hon. Gentleman will recognise, I did not come to the House without giving very careful consideration to the advice that I have received. I have not come to a hasty decision, taken without proper contemplation of all the consequences. Of course I shall be consulting, but I believe that it is quite clear that action is necessary.
 Dr. Cunningham : We are pretty clear that there is a connection between BSE and new-variant CJD. The burden of scientific evidence leads to that conclusion. As for the doctor to whom the hon. Lady referred and the history of CJD, I am happy to receive advice and to look at evidence and scientific research, from whatever quarter it may come.
 Dr. Cunningham : I am not aware of any £;400 million underspend in my budget. If the hon. Lady is referring to the recurring nonsense uttered by the Conservative spokesman, the right hon. Member for Fylde (Mr. Jack), let me tell her for the removal of any doubt that there was not a word of truth in what he said. Such an underspend just does not exist.
 Dr. Cunningham : The hon. Gentleman has not taken much notice of what has been going on. If we are to get a European Union-wide agreement—
 Dr. Cunningham : Because there is a single market for beef in Europe, and that is the best way forward. In order to reach a European Union-wide agreement, it was necessary to agree on an implementation date of 1 January. I repeat to the hon. Gentleman and the House that the previous Government had every opportunity to take my approach to beef imports, but they signally failed to do so.
 Dr. Cunningham : The papers and decisions of the previous Administration are not available to me and my colleagues.
 Dr. Cunningham : To suggest that the whole of British agriculture is disintegrating is somewhat over the top, even for the hon. Gentleman. [Horn. MEMBERS: "Livestock."] He did not say that; he said the whole agricultural industry.
 Dr. Cunningham : I shall consult urgently on those issues, and I expect to lay orders quickly after that consultation period.
 Dr. Cunningham : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his opening remarks and his support for the promptness and candour with which I have acted. SEAC concluded its deliberations only very late last night. It would normally be encouraged by me to give a brief statement of its conclusions, but it did not have time even to do that in this case. I regret and greatly deplore the fact that its advice to me was leaked. 384
 Dr. Cunningham : The hon. Lady asks some important questions, and I understand her concern about beef farmers in her constituency. I share it, and if it is possible to do more to help beef farmers, the Government will do so. As for her specific question about bones, we do not intend to designate bones as specified bovine material. They will be removed in butchers' shops and other catering establishments, as I have said, and they will not be available to consumers or to pass into the food chain, so the second part of her question about staining bones simply will not arise. The hon. Lady also asked about veal bones, but the restrictions will not apply to animals under six months old.
 Dr. Cunningham : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for making the simple point that the Conservative party has been noticeably silent on the need for a public inquiry into all the issues.
 Dr. Cunningham : The hon. Gentleman suggests that I should deliberately and constructively allow infective BSE material into the human food chain. I simply am not prepared to do that.
 Dr. Cunningham : I express my sympathy and condolences to my hon. Friend's constituents. I was
 383
 The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Dr. John Cunningham) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I should like to make a statement on bovine spongiform encephalopathy. 373
 Dr. Cunningham : The right hon. Gentleman began by saying that he would support any moves to protect consumers, and then went into a long ramble about why he thought I was making this statement today. I had every intention of making a statement on the SEAC report. I said within days of my appointment that I would publish SEAC advice as quickly as possible after receiving it, and make statements. I have kept that promise to consumers and the country as a whole today. It was always our intention that a statement should be made. He asked what role the Prime Minister had played. The Prime Minister played the role that any normal Prime Minister would: he agreed that I should make a statement to the House, and that was that. 375
 Dr. Cunningham : I well understand the concern expressed by my hon. Friend on behalf of her constituents and others. I know at first hand of the concern of parents who have lost loved ones through new-variant CJD, because I have met some of them. One of the young women who died was a close friend of my son and had studied with him at university. I am well aware of the dreadful circumstances for those families, and I understand the pressure for a full inquiry into all aspects of the matter. I am having urgent and continuing discussions with my right hon. Friends, but I am sorry that I cannot make an announcement about a decision today. Obviously, I would have done so if I could.
 Dr. Cunningham : Of course, I understand how beef producers feel. After all, I represent many of them in my constituency and I met some of them recently. However, the fact remains that the overriding priority is to safeguard consumers and people's health and well-being. That has to be our first priority and that is why I have acted in the way that I have.
 Dr. Cunningham : From a sedentary position, the hon. Gentleman asks, "Why not?" Our support for the beef
 377
 Dr. Cunningham : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. Like me, he has represented hill farmers for 27 years in the House. I know that he maintains strong links with them and has their best interests at heart. I have already made it clear to the House that I shall insist on a level playing field with regard to beef imports.
 Dr. Cunningham : I am grateful to the right hon. and learned Gentleman for his expressions of understanding
 378
 Dr. Cunningham : I am grateful to my hon. Friend, who—because of his experience, knowledge and qualifications in medicine—is well placed to speak in the House on those issues. I absolutely share his view that it would have been a serious dereliction of my duty and responsibilities had I decided not to publish the report and not to act upon it. They are the responsibilities that fall to me in my current post, and I do not shirk them. 379
 Dr. Cunningham : I am grateful to the right hon. Gentleman for his understanding of the absolute necessity for me to make the announcement and to take my decision today. I appreciate his comments in that regard. I understand very well his valid point that the statement may act further to depress beef prices. I hope that that will not occur—which is why I reiterate not only to hon. Members but to the public that it is safe to continue to eat British beef. Given the rigour with which we safeguard our beef, I am able to say that our beef is as safe as, if not safer than, that produced anywhere else in the world. If I were not taking those decisions, it might be less easy to make that claim.
 Dr. Cunningham : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his support for what is indeed prompt, urgent action. We shall continue to act promptly and urgently whenever circumstances so dictate. I understand that he knows very well, from experience in his constituency, the views and problems that beef farmers face. I share his view that the safety of consumers is of primary importance. As for his question about the food standards agency, I hope that we shall publish a White Paper on our proposals before too long.
 Dr. Cunningham : I do not know where the hon. Gentleman has been. I can understand his comments about the previous Administration doing nothing on cattle traceability, but has he missed the announcement that we shall locate the cattle traceability service in Workington; that we have obtained the site; that the site is being equipped; and that we are about to appoint the head of the service? Has he had his head in a haystack? The Government have been acting from the very first day after the election to install a computer-based cattle traceability scheme for the whole national herd. I am proud of the record of my hon. Friend the Minister of State in rapidly carrying that work forward. I am also proud of the fact, incidentally, that in doing so, we shall create 250 jobs in the constituency of my hon. Friend the Member for Workington (Mr. Campbell-Savours), where they are desperately needed.
 Dr. Cunningham : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his expression of support for the decision that I have taken today. In respect of the action of beef farmers in Wales, I should say that illegal action will be met with the full consequences and rigour of the law. We cannot tolerate illegality from farmers. Not only is that so, but such action totally undermines our position when we complain—as we have and as the previous Government rightly complained—about similar action in France, which affected our meat exports. It is simply unacceptable for Welsh or any other farmers to take to the streets and act illegally. 381
 Dr. Cunningham : The hon. Gentleman's comments are patently absurd and irresponsible. Can he contemplate a Minister who had received on the record advice from an independent scientific body refusing to act to safeguard people's health and well-being? That would be an untenable position for any Minister. Of course the risk is very small, but there is a risk. It was my duty to take action to remove that risk in the interests of the people of this country. I have done so legitimately on the basis of sound, independent scientific advice.
 Dr. Cunningham : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his support. As I have already told the House, it would have been good—and, I guess, appropriate—if I had been able to announce our conclusions on a public inquiry. I regret that I am not able to do so. I emphasise that urgent discussions are continuing on that. I understand my hon. Friend's concern about the death of one of his constituents from new-variant CJD. In fact, 22 people have died. We are advised that more deaths are predicted. The human costs of the tragedy are immense. The financial costs are in excess of £2 billion and increasing rapidly. To date, 1.9 million cattle have been slaughtered. That is the legacy in the beef industry left to this Government and this country by the Conservatives.
 Dr. Cunningham : I cannot agree with the hon. Gentleman that the scientific advice is constantly changing. The science and understanding of these terrible problems is evolving and developing; it is not changing. Scientists are becoming more and more systematic in their examination of the possible location of infection. I welcome that research programme. The way to resolve the problems is not to call for more expenditure, but to work deliberately, consistently and ruthlessly to eradicate BSE completely from the national herd. When we do that, the problems will have been resolved.
 Dr. Cunningham : I am pleased to be able to say that I agree with a great deal of what the hon. Gentleman says. To the constituent who called him on a mobile phone from Paris I would say, yes, there is a point in continuing. I recently attended the food fair at ANUGA in Cologne, where a great many Scottish food producers, from Orkney to the borders, were displaying their products and
 389
Q1. [17499]  Dr. Tonge : If he will list his official engagements for Wednesday 3 December. [Interruption.]
 Dr. Tonge : I apologise to the House, Madam Speaker.
 Dr. Lewis Moonie  (Kirkcaldy) : Does my right hon. Friend accept that he has done more in the past six months to restore confidence in the beef market among consumers than the previous Administration managed to do in five years? Does he agree that, at a time when new CJD cases are still arising in our population, it would be mad to do anything other than accept SEAC's recommendations? Will he also assure the House that standards in slaughterhouses and meat processing plants are now adequately supervised by inspectors, ensuring that no contaminated meat enters our food chain?
 Dr. Liam Fox  (Woodspring) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. It is almost becoming tedious to have raise such points of order with you, but this one relates to the statement by the Secretary of State for Scotland on public expenditure in Scotland which he delivered at 4.30 pm today in the Scottish Grand Committee. The statement was made available to hon. Members in the Vote Office at 4.31 pm, but, by that time, I had already conducted an interview on the subject at Millbank, having been given the full figures by journalists. I checked the fax time of their information—it was 3.55 pm. Despite your constant admonitions, Madam Speaker, the Government are choosing either to ignore or to defy your wishes on behalf of the House. It seems that the Government simply wish that the House of Commons did not exist.
 Dr. Fox : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. You were not in the chair when this point was raised earlier. There are a number of written questions on the Order Paper regarding the timing of the publication of the concordat on inward investment. The hon. Member for Banff and Buchan (Mr. Salmond) claims to have a document showing that discussions about that matter are now well advanced. Either the Government have not yet drawn up the document or the hon. Gentleman has useless information—both scenarios cannot be correct.
 Dr. Liam Fox  (Woodspring) : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that when the DTI talks about co-ordination it is Whitehall-speak for the dead hand of Treasury involvement?
 Mr. Godman : I welcomed my hon. Friend's comments on the origins of Locate in Scotland. It came from a Labour Government, by way of the SDA. I seek from my hon. Friend an assurance that there will be no reduction in the role or the autonomy of Locate in Scotland.
 Mr. Norman A. Godman  (Greenock and Inverclyde) : The people of the west of Scotland want to ensure that the autonomy of Locate in Scotland is not diminished. I remind the hon. Gentleman that my constituency has benefited enormously from inward investment. The two biggest employers are National Semiconductors and IBM. The latter came to Greenock through the exertions of the Labour Member of Parliament, Hector McNeil.
 Dr. Ladyman : The hon. Gentleman is developing an interesting theme. He says that one day it may be possible for a minority to take decisions that the majority in Europe do not agree with. Is that not the basis on which, for the past 18 years, the Conservatives ran this country?
 Dr. Ladyman : Is the hon. Gentleman saying that the Conservative party has given up all hope of having more MEPs after the next elections?
 Dr. Ladyman : From my recollection of the Conservative party manifesto at the election, I believe that the Conservative party was in favour of increasing the powers of the European Parliament. It said that that was one of the aspects that needed reform. Is the hon. Gentleman now saying that that has changed and that the Conservative party is completely against the European Parliament?
 Dr. Stephen Ladyman  (South Thanet) : The hon. Gentleman's thesis appears to be that the agenda for the Amsterdam treaty talks would have led to the death of the nation state. The negotiators came back with nothing as serious as that, yet, somehow, he is not giving the Government credit for coming back with something better. I do not follow that argument.
 Dr. Tony Wright  (Cannock Chase) : I thank my right hon. Friend for the speed and candour of his statement. If SEAC routinely made available its proceedings, would not that remove the need for the regular leaks and urgent statements?
 Mr. Ancram : Will the Secretary of State confirm that any additional cost of establishing the Assembly arising from the incompetent way in which he and his colleagues have handled the project, not least by failing after 18 years to find a home for the Assembly, will come out of the Welsh mainstream budget, which would otherwise be spent on important sectors such as housing and education? Indeed, the Welsh section of the Confederation of British Industry fears that the cost will be met out of money that might otherwise go towards economic development. Should not the right hon. Gentleman apologise to the people of Wales for not having resolved such problems before the referendum, and thus for having sold the referendum to them on a false prospectus?
 Mr. Ancram : Does not this indicate that it would be a far better use of the Secretary of State's time if, instead of dogfighting with his socialist colleagues on Cardiff county council about Cardiff city hall, he explained to the people of Wales how an Assembly might in future be able to help the hard-pressed farmers of Wales, who are suffering grave dangers to their livelihood and who need more than the patronising arrogance that they have had from him over the past three days?
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (North Essex) : I have listened carefully to everything that the hon. Gentleman has said, but do not the new rules and concordat for Locate in Scotland issued by the DTI arise as a direct result of his support for the Government's devolution proposals? The hon. Gentleman should explain to the Scottish people why devolution will put Locate in Scotland at a new disadvantage.
 Mr. Jenkin : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Jenkin : Whatever tensions have existed within a Government about the rules constraining Locate in Scotland, they have always been contained and resolved within government, within the constraints of collective Cabinet responsibility, behind which some fudges and discretions can be allowed to a Secretary of State for Scotland, who has all the powers and responsibilities of that post and can answer for policy in Scotland. The rules are a direct consequence of a new locus of power created in the Scottish Executive, outwith the collective responsibility of the Cabinet. The hon. Gentleman cannot have his cake and eat it: Scotland is losing out as a result of the devolution proposals.
 Mr. Jenkin : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. From his comments, it appears that the hon. Member for Banff and Buchan (Mr. Salmond) has been furnished with a crucial document relevant to the debate by the Scottish Office—an official document that is not available to other hon. Members. For the benefit of proper debate, will you consider a short adjournment so that we can be given that document? In view of the number of hon. Members who want to speak in the debate, will you seek an undertaking from the Government that they will give us the document, so that the debate can continue uninterrupted?
Q6. [17504] Miss Begg : As someone who does not understand the allure of football, I can appreciate that it is a great passion for many boys and girls and some hon. Members. May I therefore welcome today's announcement by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Education and Employment that he is to set up homework clubs in football grounds, thereby improving the literacy of many young people and giving them a great chance in the future? Are there any plans to extend the scheme to Scotland, even if the Prime Minister cannot guarantee the success of Aberdeen football club?
 Madam Speaker : Order. Let us have some order in the House.
 Madam Speaker : Order. That was a very nice accolade for the Secretary of State, but there was no question in it—it was just a long comment. If this goes on, I shall have to stop the statement, because we must have questions, not long statements of congratultion.
 Madam Speaker : There was no question. I listened carefully for a question and the hon. Gentleman will find that there was not one. I am sure that the Secretary of State will want to comment on the hon. Gentleman's statement and it is his duty to do so, but it is Back Benchers' duty to ask questions.
 Madam Speaker : Order. I hope that hon. Members are sitting comfortably. I was watching what was going on.
 Madam Speaker : Order. We are dealing with the Welsh Assembly. The hon. Gentleman is bringing up a totally different matter.
 Madam Speaker : I share the irritation of the hon. Gentleman and other hon. Members. I have deprecated such occurrences before and I do so again most strongly. I see that the Scottish Grand Committee met at 4.30 pm today to consider a ministerial statement on the Scottish
 391
 Madam Speaker : I have a good deal of authority from time to time, but it extends only within the House and not to the railways. However, I refer the hon. Gentleman to the Central Rail Users Consultative Committee, Clements house, 14–18 Gresham street, London. That body deals with issues affecting rail users and has the legal right to make recommendations for improvement.
 Madam Speaker : The hon. Gentleman rightly said when he began his point of order that I have no responsibility for Ministers' answers and comments. The hon. Gentleman did not give me notice of his question and I have not seen the question and written answer, but I should like to look at them. However, I am sure that what he has said has been noted this afternoon.
 Madam Speaker : The hon. Gentleman gave me some indication of the point he intended to raise, but there is little that I can usefully say in response. I have not seen a transcript of the comment to which the hon. Gentleman refers. Obviously, all Members of Parliament find that there are conflicting calls on their time most days, but I am aware that many hon. Members decided that the right place for them to be last Friday was in the Chamber. If that meant that some outside bodies felt disobliged by hon. Members' inability to attend their proceedings, that is to be regretted. Although I do not think that any further comment or special protection from me is required by the hon. Gentleman, I hope that outside bodies will realise that parliamentary proceedings must remain the first call on hon. Members' time.
 Mr. Alan Clark  (Kensington and Chelsea) : I hesitate to interrupt the hon. Gentleman's very interesting dissertation. I agree with many of the compliments that he has paid the future large aircraft, but it cannot carry a main battle tank, can it?
 Mr. Alan Clark  (Kensington and Chelsea) : I commend the hon. Member for Chorley (Mr. Hoyle) for seeking an Adjournment debate on this important topic, and for the lucid and comprehensive way in which he set out his case. This topic must be approached from several different angles, and I caution the House against treating the defence industries in isolation as an engine of employment. The real importance of the defence industries is their high-technology and research qualities and that aspect of their function that keeps this country at the leading edge of the various technologies associated closely with the defence field. Maintaining those industries as consistent laboratories of research is just as important as retaining them simply as engines of employment, often making products that are either obsolete or obsolescent. 273 274
 Mr. Alasdair Morgan rose—
 Mr. Alasdair Morgan  (Galloway and Upper Nithsdale) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Alasdair Morgan  (Galloway and Upper Nithsdale) : In relation to the proposed concordat on inward investment and the waste of money to which the Minister referred, can he give some specific examples of where money has been wasted under the existing arrangements?
 Mr. Salmond : The hon. Gentleman misunderstands the present position. To show his expertise in and command of the subject, can he tell me the percentage of inward investment to Scotland where the first contacts were with Locate in Scotland and the percentage where the first contacts were with the Invest in Britain Bureau?
 Mr. Salmond : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Salmond : From the intervention of the hon. Member for North Essex (Mr. Jenkin) in my speech, I gathered that he accepted that exactly those tensions existed within the Conservative party in their period of office and that Lord Young, Lord Tebbit and Lord Lang at one point supported proposals identical to those that the present Government are making?
 Mr. Salmond : Will the hon. Gentleman give way on that point?
 Mr. Salmond : I will come to the hon. Gentleman in a second.
 Mr. Salmond : The hon. Member for Greenock and Inverclyde (Mr. Godman) was not looking for praise of
 310
 Mr. Salmond : Further to that point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I regret that the hon. Member for North Essex (Mr. Jenkin) misleads the House. I most certainly was not furnished with the document to which he refers by any Department. I was asking the Government about its bona fides and if they would put it in the Library. I am not responsible for the Conservative party's lack of information sources.
 Mr. Salmond : I have given way very generously to Conservative Front Benchers. If the hon. Gentleman is persistent, he will catch Mr. Deputy Speaker's eye, but for the moment I want to make some progress. 296 297 The Herald. "Daewoo, the industrial conglomerate reportedly seeking a site for an 800-job glass plant in Scotland despite the economic circumstances engulfing its native South Korea, rejected Scotland as a location for the same project only last year. Instead, after bungled negotiations by the Department of Trade and Industry's industrial development unit which infuriated senior players in the Scottish inward investment effort, Daewoo decided to take its planned investment to France."
 Mr. Salmond : The concordat makes proposals not for after the devolved Parliament is established but for now, while collective responsibility still applies and the Secretary of State for Scotland retains the whole panoply of his powers and ability to fend off such attacks from his colleagues. If the Government do not want to behave in an anti-Scottish manner, as the previous Conservative Government did, all that they have to do is to stop the attacks on Locate in Scotland.
 Mr. Salmond : If the hon. Gentleman can contain himself, I want to cite a few more examples before giving way again. 295
 Mr. Salmond : Unfortunately for the hon. Gentleman, I have a longer memory, having been in the House longer and having been involved in inward investment longer than he has. The attempt to shackle Locate in Scotland is nothing new for the DTI. It was tried at least three times in the 1980s.
 Mr. Salmond : I appreciate the hon. Gentleman's concern. It might be argued that my constituency is less
 292 "national co-ordination of the promotion of the UK to foreign investors will be maintained and will continue to' be the responsibility of the UK Government." "inward investment including the functions of Locate in Scotland" "There will be common financial limits covering major schemes of financial assistance to companies administered directly by the UK Government". "the total of public sector assistance." The Herald "At no time has the word veto appeared in any of the negotiating documents. What Mrs. Beckett, or, to be precise, Mrs. Beckett's officials have proposed, is a central clearing house for all major packages—by which they mean any offer where assistance is over £5m—based in her own Industrial Development Unit. No Agency, not even Locate in Scotland after devolution, would be able to make its own approach to a potential investor and shape its own offer. That is seen by LiS and others, not as a veto, but as an attempt to shut them down." 293 "It would be perverse in the extreme to argue for some form of rigid pan-UK control of all inward investment attraction on this type of evidence." 294 The Sunday Tribune "IDA Ireland is poised to gain a decisive upper hand over its main international competitor in the battle to attract foreign inward investment following an attempt by Margaret Beckett, the president of the British Board of Trade, to shackle the jobs agency of Scottish Enterprise, Locate in Scotland." "the implications for Ireland will be monitored by industry experts."
 Mr. Alex Salmond  (Banff and Buchan) : This subject covers a wide canvas. I shall concentrate on the real concerns of many people in Scotland that the Government's plans amount to the sabotage of the most effective inward investment agency in Europe. They are a betrayal of the spirit of the devolution process. I hope that that is an unwitting move by the Department of Trade and Industry. Perhaps the Minister will be able to put at rest some of our real concerns about the trend of events and the Department's plans on inward investment.
 Mr. Salmond : I should like to develop my points before I give way. I shall be fascinated to hear the Conservative party's position on this, as it seems to be going through a phase of development. The hon. Gentleman will have a chance later. The Herald "In effect the distinctive competence of bodies such as Locate in Scotland is less in differential financial assistance than in customer care and attention; effective co-ordination of resources; and high levels of after care for existing investors whose expansion projects now account for some 60 per cent. of total inward investment." 291
 Mr. Andrew F. Bennett  (Denton and Reddish) : I very much welcome my right hon. Friend's proposals, but I hope that he will press on with the second stage, which is to have elected assemblies in the English regions. In the meantime, will he examine the ways in which the regional bodies will be accountable to the House and consider setting up regional Select Committees to scrutinise them effectively?
 Mr. Andrew Robathan  (Blaby) : The hon. Gentleman will be surprised to learn how much I agree with him about good employers. Almost everyone in the House agrees that any good employer listens to his or her work force. When I was on the Employment Committee, it never ceased to amaze me how many big companies, some of which the hon. Gentleman has quoted in terms of their support for the Amsterdam treaty, did not carry out such policies.
 Mr. Robathan : I do not believe that.
 Mr. Robathan : Why does the hon. Gentleman think that, this time, the Germans will be right about a single
 402
 Mr. Robathan : When the hon. Gentleman talks about what we can achieve, does he believe that we will gain the same employment prospects as those on continental Europe? After all, they are not very good. I was in the House when we debated the Maastricht treaty and I saw the same starry-eyed optimism among Members then, but I must say that most of them are now rather disillusioned.
 Mr. Andrew Welsh  (Angus) : Does the Minister accept that computer traceability and certification are essential to
 380
 Mr. Barry Jones  (Alyn and Deeside) : I thank my right hon. Friend for his timely, serious and necessary statement. May I tell him of the fearfulness and desperation of beef farmers on the hillsides in my constituency? In Flintshire, I met the president and county delegate of the National Fanners Union and they told me of the need for a level playing field. I very much support my right hon. Friend coming to the House as he has, but just hope that he may be able to give some crumb of comfort to beef farmers.
 Mr. Barry Jones : My right hon. Friend has let the names Cardiff and Swansea cross his lips this afternoon. May I mention Alyn and Deeside and invite him to consider seriously locating the Assembly in my constituency at the new, large modern offices at Ewloe, owned by Flintshire county council? Such consideration would be most gratefully received.
 Mr. Barry Sheerman  (Huddersfield) : I congratulate my right hon. Friend. I remember his passion for regional government when I worked for him many years ago and I know that the report is based on good homework. But can the emphasis in the regional development agencies be on growth from within, not just the panacea of attracting industry from without? If we have the right focus, we can develop our regions, with all their talents and skills, from within. Yorkshire and Humberside, the region which I and my right hon. Friend share, is in the front.
 Mr. William Cash  (Stone) : Does the Minister accept that this morning his officials were reported as saying that the risks to human health were remote? He has said that the risks are very small. Does he accept that the hard-pressed British beef producers, farmers and retailers are likely to be deeply concerned by what he has announced, not least because of the devastation that they have undergone over the past couple of years? Does he further accept that what he has described as a precautionary measure is a panic measure and that he is as interested in protecting his back as he is in the statement that he has just made?
 Mr. Cash : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that the problem is not the large multinational companies but the small and medium businesses? Does he accept that, if one were to draw an analogy with the United States, the key question is whether we have enough flexibility in our labour market to enable us to generate jobs of the type that are being produced in the United States and that he is misrepresenting the position? I have indeed read the social chapter.
 Mr. William Cash  (stone) rose—
 Mr. Cash : After that robust knockabout by the hon. Member for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound), perhaps we should return to some of the more fundamental questions in examining the nature of the provisions. I have heard
 418 "would be to raise the pay of low-paid men by 21.6 per cent. on average, and that of women by 25.6 per cent., an overall weighted average…of 24.1 per cent."
 Mr. Cash : Yes, but the hon. Gentleman knows perfectly well that the Government are introducing proposals for a minimum wage. That is what I am dealing with. The hourly rate at which the Commission arrives has to be reflected by movements similar to those in respect of the code of conduct for what is described as "harmful tax competition", which is the new method whereby the Commission achieves a degree of harmonisation across the board—achieving in national legislation proposals which are commensurate with the kind of playing field that the Commission wants to create in Europe as a whole. "In the case of the weakest combination, the damage to output is estimated at 9 per cent. and unemployment increases by 3 million (10 per cent. of the labour force)." [Interruption.] 419
 Mr. Cash : I would say much the same of reports that have poured out of the European Commission such as the Cecchini report, "One Market One Money," and all the other junk that has been generated. They have effectively been written backwards because all the Commission ever wanted was to arrive at the conclusions from which it started. That is the worry. I would agree with the hon. Gentleman if he were prepared to conduct a completely objective analysis in the Treasury Committee. I suspect, however, that he has been appointed Chairman of that Committee precisely because the Government do not want an objective analysis. The hon. Gentleman is well known for coming from where he started, and I assure him that I know where he will end up. 420
 Mr. Cash : My right hon. Friend, with his immense experience, makes a telling point. The real reason why the other countries have been so anxious to impose the social chapter on us is that they want to ensure that the United Kingdom does not get a competitive advantage in the ever-increasing legal area of employment. I should not really say this, but in a funny way it is quite a good ruse from their point of view, if they get away with it. Unfortunately, not only are the Government prepared to run with that ruse, but they are prepared to advocate it. They want to destroy jobs in the United Kingdom. 421
 Mr. Cash : I must intervene. The hon. Gentleman cannot be allowed to get away with that. I will not be accused of being xenophobic. The hon. Gentleman must answer a simple question. Does he think that it is xenophobic to produce statistics based on the European Commission's analysis of wage rate differentials? If he does, he is clearly mad.
 Mr. Cash : Does the hon. Gentleman recall that Adam Smith's great work was in fact "The Wealth of the Nations—"nations", not the European Union?
 Mr. Cash : It seems that the Minister completely misunderstands the problems that can arise when it comes to countering fraud and that he misunderstands the role of the Court of Auditors. In practice, it is precisely because so many of the other member states have not been interested in dealing with fraud—and, as far as one can judge, are still not—that qualified majority voting will not work in our favour. There need to be serious changes, including changes to the procedures of the Court of Auditors, so that each member state has proper arrangements for dealing with fraud at a national level. Those arrangements should be in line with the arrangements that we have, which include the Comptroller and Auditor General and the Public Accounts Committee. That would be the way to get all member states to adopt proper anti-fraud measures.
 Mr.Cash rose
 Mr. Cash : The hon. Gentleman may care to bear in mind something that has not been mentioned so far in the debate: QMV in relation to public health, particularly in relation to the BSE crisis on which we had a statement today. Does he really believe that it would be in the interests of the United Kingdom to have QMV, as expressed in an article that appeared a couple of months ago in the Health Service Journal
 Mr. Rammell : I shall not respond to that directly. I do not think that it is wrong to quote European Commission statistics. That is not the issue on which I was accusing the hon. Gentleman of using xenophobic rhetoric. However, he said—I am paraphrasing him—that the social chapter was an organised conspiracy by other European Governments to bring our social costs up to their levels. The proposal to abolish our opt-out does not come from Europe; it comes from Labour.
 Mr.Bill Rammell  (Harlow) : I am happy to follow the hon. Member for Stone (Mr. Cash). I do so with some astonishment, because—I think that I understood his argument—he said at the beginning of his speech that the social chapter was a deliberate, organised attempt by other European countries to bring our social costs up to European levels. I remind him that we had an opt-out. It is not the other European countries that are arguing for the abolition of that opt-out; it is the British Government. That is an example of the xenophobic rhetoric that I referred to earlier in Committee. 422
 Mr. Rammell : In the longer run, it may well have an impact in attracting people back into the workplace, but I do not want to polarise the arguments artificially, as the hon. Gentleman is attempting to do. The parental leave directive, giving three months' unpaid leave, which the vast majority of people will not take up, because they will not want to forgo a quarter of a year's salary, is completely marginal in relation to the number of people who are taken on or made redundant in a workplace. That argument is fatuous.
 Mr. Rammell : Some clarity and some facts are welcome in the debate. "I hope that my right hon. Friend can influence the Government, so that we British can be proud of the things that are our heritage. That is completely different from spending our time attacking our allies and neighbours for what, allegedly, they are doing, because that is xenophobic."— [Official Report
 Mr. Rammell : I did not hear those comments from my hon. Friend: I heard him mention social security legislation and, on those issues, we have the veto. 423
 Mr. Rammell : I do not believe that that is so. We can all select examples to prove our case. We should consider the experience of the Dutch which, in the past few years, has been a strong example of social partnership with both sides of industry working together. They have seen a transformation of the economic situation. We can all quote statistics from various countries to support our examples. 424
 Mr. Rammell : That is not what I said. I was drawing attention to the fact that Conservative Members are misleadingly giving the impression that they would support UK legislation in employment protection as an alternative to signing up to the social chapter. There is no evidence to sustain that argument. 425
 Mr. Charles Kennedy  (Ross, Skye and Inverness, West) : Given the seriousness of the Minister's statement, does he acknowledge that, although he describes this development as a further disappointment for the beef sector, it would not be an exaggeration to say that it is another desperate blow to the morale of that sector? It may have the practical impact of sending several specialist producers to the wall as a result of the changes that will, alas, have to be implemented. 376
 Mr. Colin Pickthall  (West Lancashire) : I am grateful for the opportunity to put on the official record my deep concerns about the regulations surrounding private care agencies, which have grown in number in recent years and are of a weird and wonderful variety. "Specialists in emergency/respite care and personal development at sea". "The latter address is a leased property accommodating up to three young people and as such falls outside the children's homes registration criteria. St. Helens Inspection Unit has been in contact with Care Afloat about a number of matters, but the home in Rainford is not registered with this local authority. Responsibility for checking the suitability and the safety of placements at Cross Pit Lane, therefore, rests with placing agencies." 331 332 "it is my opinion that this boat is unsafe to operate…I would strongly advise that the rest of the boat is examined by a qualified surveyor or boat safety examiner with a view to such points as ventilation, labelling, fire extinguisher type and the location and storage of the petrol generator and the full gas bottle—currently to be found in the shower!" 333 "Arrangements should be made to extend the remit of social care regulation to include vulnerable service users of: small children's homes, domiciliary care agencies, day centres for adults and supported housing schemes." "Clear and consistent guidance must be given on whether the role of regulation is simply to 'police' minimum standards, or whether it has a wider role to develop quality of care and quality of life."
 Mr. Crispin Blunt  (Reigate) : The hon. Gentleman should bear in mind the fact that we operate in a world market, not only a European market. If we give authority to Europe to decide those matters for us, we limit our ability to make decisions in our own interest so that we can trade in the world in the best possible way. We are a global trading nation, and global free trade should be our final objective, not tying ourselves into Europe. The danger is that we will tie ourselves into a fortress Europe. That is where the social and employment chapters are leading us.
 Mr. Blunt : The hon. and learned Member for North-East Fife (Mr. Campbell) has missed the point that article J.7 is part of a progressive framing of a common defence policy.
 Mr. Blunt : Not like Maastricht; the word progressive was not in that treaty. The word "progressive" was conceded by the Government, for nothing in return.
 Mr. Blunt : My hon. Friend makes a good point. It is illustrated by the fact that, when in opposition, Labour announced the concessions that it would give before it entered the negotiations. No wonder it got such a rotten deal.
 Mr. Green : I am reading the Chancellor's quotation. He said:
 "A Labour Chancellor will not permit tax relief to millionaires in offshore tax havens."
Q4. [17502] Mr. Green : The Prime Minister will recall the Chancellor of the Exchequer saying at the Labour conference last year that
 "A Labour Chancellor will not permit"—
 Mr. Borrow : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the appointment this week of the Independent Commission on the Voting System is an important part of the programme to modernise the British Constitution? When is the commission likely to report and when will the referendum be held? If the referendum finds in favour of an alternative to the first-past-the-post system and if the Parliament runs to its full five-year term, will it be possible to have that alternative system in operation at the next general election?
 Mr. David Borrow  (South Ribble) : I very much welcome confirmation of the Eurofighter order. I wonder, however, whether my hon. Friend the Minister will be prepared to make a few comments about the links between the civil and military sides of much of the defence industry? In my constituency, for example, Leyland trucks—which is perceived as a civil manufacturer—produces military trucks and is partly dependent on defence orders. In British Aerospace, the links between the civil side—for example, vis-à-vis Airbus and the FLA—and the military side are also very important. Decisions made by the Ministry of Defence therefore have
 285
 Mr. Chidgey : In that context, will the Minister explain the role that she sees for regional development agencies in securing more funds from the EU, especially matching funds, which will require some financial stream through the RDAs?
 Mr. Chidgey : My hon. Friend makes a telling point. It is vital that we do not dumb down the process but learn from best practice.
 Mr. David Chidgey  (Eastleigh) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Eccles (Mr. Stewart) on his most informative maiden speech. What a shame it is that he threw his other
 302 303
 Mr. Chidgey : I am surprised to find myself agreeing with the hon. Gentleman. It is vital—I hope that the Minister will respond to this—that we should use the DTI to boost best practice rather than to constrain and stifle it. The concordat's key role will be to promote best practice. As the hon. Member for Banff and Buchan (Mr. Salmond) said, Locate in Scotland has set high standards in diligent and patient company tracking. Again, Neil Hood's words are relevant. The Northern Development Company and the West Midlands development agency have all had major successes from which other regions can learn. The DTI has a crucial role to play in ensuring that best practice is promoted throughout the regions. 304
 Mr. David Curry  (Skipton and Ripon) : I hope that Lord Shuttleworth will be around to celebrate the right hon. Gentleman's resignation in the same terms as he has just celebrated Lord Shuttleworth's resignation.
 Mr. David Curry  (Skipton and Ripon) : The right hon. Gentleman will know that one of the immediate risks of the statement, which I accept that he had to make, is that there will be a further fall in beef prices at auction marts. He will know also that prices are already very low indeed. Will he therefore, at the very least, seek from the Chancellor of the Exchequer the means to maintain the level of grant—particularly HLCAs—to farmers? The request has nothing to do with the green pound, but is related to grant levels and HLCAs, so that the Minister may give at least some very small support to farmers—given that suckler herds and upland farmers will be the ones who will, yet again, feel the heaviest draught from the announcement.
 Mr. David Davis : My hon. Friend is being too kind. The current Prime Minister was sitting in the front row when the head of the German CBI said that Britain, after 15 years of Tory reforms, was the best equipped country in Europe to face global competition.
 Mr. David Davis : I have listened to the hon. Gentleman with some sympathy, but does he accept that companies can have good communications and industrial relations without all the regulations? All the best studies carried out in this country and across Europe—for example, in Holland—show that high levels of regulation lead to low levels of growth which lead to high unemployment. That does not help anybody.
 Mr. David Davis  (Haltemprice and Howden) : My hon. Friend has provoked me to speak rather than my asking him to give way. I apologise to him for intervening in the middle of his speech. If the social chapter is so minor and unimportant, as Labour Members claim, why was our joining the social chapter raised at the top of the agenda at every Council of Ministers that I attended? The continental countries were clear about wanting us to join so that more could be added to it without further disadvantaging them.
 Mr. David Drew  (Stroud) : I welcome my right hon. Friend's prompt statement, which is in marked contrast to the fiddling and faddling of the Opposition, as they now are. Although I understand the need for the statement, we on the Labour Benches understand how beef farmers must be feeling today. I am sure that the Government will take cognisance of the effects on farmers. We place prime importance, however, on the safety of the food that consumers eat. Will my right hon. Friend therefore ensure that the food standards agency is established at the earliest possible opportunity?
 Mr.David Drew (Stroud) : I confirm my hon. Friend's tale. The people had no knowledge of the storage until the material started to arrive. In the end, the Intervention Board decided to move the material on the basis that the hangars were neither watertight nor secure from wildlife. Would my hon. Friend care to comment on that?
5.  Mr. Hanson : How many jobs have been announced by inward investors in Wales since January 1996. [17474]
 Mr. Hanson : Will my hon. Friend join me in welcoming inward investment since the general election in Flintshire, in Wrexham and throughout Wales, which has been proved a tremendous success for our local economy? Will he take it from me that Labour's positive attitude in Europe has helped inward investment, while our policies on a minimum wage, on devolution and the social chapter have not proved the deterrents that Opposition Members believe them to be?
8.  Mr. David Heath : What discussions he has had with representatives of local government in the south-west of England concerning regional economic development. [17477]
 Mr. Heath : Given that, on our side of the Bristol channel, we do not have the advantage of a Secretary of State, or of a new assembly, or yet of a regional development agency, will the Secretary of State give me an assurance that he would not countenance any inducements being given to move companies from areas of high unemployment in the west country to areas of low unemployment in Wales?
 Mr. David Heath  (Somerton and Frome) : I recognise the difficulties confronting the right hon. Gentleman, but does he recognise the sense of desperation that will be felt by the farmers I met in Wincanton on Monday? 386
 Mr. David Heath  (Somerton and Frome) : New clause 21 stands in my name and that of my hon. and learned Friend the Member for North-East Fife (Mr. Campbell). It is a very modest proposal, simply requiring the Government to do what they should do: consult employers and workers' organisations before making appointments to the Employment Committee. I know that the Government have regular consultations with employers' organisations, and I hope that they also have regular meetings with workers' organisations, so the new clause poses no practical difficulties. 407
3.  Mr. Ruffley : When he plans to publish the Bill setting up an Assembly for Wales. [17472]
 Mr. Ruffley : Will the Secretary of State explain why he believes that the bulk of the Committee stage of the Bill should be taken away from the Floor of the House? Does he stand by his earlier comments to the effect that Members of Parliament would not be interested in the detail of the Bill?
 Mr. Ruffley : Are they?
 Mr. David Trimble  (Upper Bann) : One welcomes in principle any proposals that will move power out of Whitehall and into the regions, although these proposals have not yet done so. The really important issue is dealing with competition between regions—between the new agencies and existing agencies in Scotland, Wales and
 366
Q3. [17501]  Mr. MacShane : Question 3, Madam Speaker— [Interruption.] 349
Q5. [17503] Mr. Skinner : Now that my right hon. Friend has turned over the pages of the energy policy—which some of us have been arguing about for a long time—by restricting the amount of gas that is used in power stations, may I sort of jolly him along a little further and suggest that it would be a good idea as well to restrict the electricity from France, which is also getting rid of miners' jobs, and to stop the protection for nuclear power? Will he also bear it in mind that it comes a bit thick for that millionaire Budge to talk about sacking miners, when he is getting opencast licences by the score and every million tonnes that are ripped out of the soil result in 500 miners losing their jobs in a coal mine? Something has to be done about that as well.
 Mr. Derek Twigg  (Halton) : Would it be true to say that the attitude of the Conservative party suggests that it is anti-family?
 Mr. Swayne : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Swayne : Regardless of whether it is ideological or understandable, will the hon. Gentleman accept that when the previous Prime Minister said during the general election campaign that the then Leader of the Opposition would give up the British veto in six areas the right hon. Gentleman denied it—and then gave it up in 16 areas?
 Mr. Swayne : I thank my right hon. Friend for that intervention. Our delegation had gone to Germany precisely to discuss with German business organisations and individual business men how they might achieve the same reduction in social legislation and social costs as we had. At every meeting, I asked the Germans how much they believed that their problems arose from their own internal legislation, and how much from the social chapter. We know the answer, because we know that at the time the social chapter consisted of only two elements; but they were completely unaware of, and had given no thought to, that question.
 Mr. Swayne : I ask the hon. Member for Harlow (Mr. Rammell) to read the  Official Report 426
 Mr. Desmond Swayne  (New Forest, West) : Is the hon. Gentleman aware that one of the fundamental problems that businesses in Germany have is the incentive to remain small—at 10 employees or fewer—precisely because of the threshold in social legislation? That is exactly the threshold the virtue of which the hon. Gentleman now extols. The consequences are dire.
 Mr. Swayne : Oh, that's all right, then.
 Mr. Swayne : I entirely accept that, but does the hon. Gentleman accept that new clause 27 acknowledges that Labour mandate? It merely puts in place a means by which the House might monitor the implementation of the social chapter.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : Will my right hon. Friend advise whether there is a Welsh word for Bourbon, since the Conservative party appears to have learnt nothing and forgotten nothing since it emerged from the election with no Members in Wales and also suffered a defeat in the referendum? Will he assure the House that he will consider seriously the Swansea, Aberystwyth, Mold option for the site of the Assembly, which would not only avoid the centralisation of Cardiff but reflect the diversity which is part of the joy of our Wales?
 Mr. Doug Henderson : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that a change in the number of Commissioners is subject to a reweighting of votes? We specifically achieved that in the negotiations.
 Mr. Doug Henderson : I have been specific. There is no question of the United Kingdom Government agreeing to any change in the Commissioners until there is a reweighting of the votes.
 The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Mr. Doug Henderson) : It is always best to quit when one is ahead. 435 436 437
 Mr. Doug Henderson : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that the previous Government wanted to include in the Amsterdam treaty provisions to counter fraud? Does he also accept that, because the previous Government were so isolated from the negotiations and would not talk to the others, and the others would not talk to them, they were unable to make any progress to counter fraud? If one is to have an effective provision to tackle fraud, it has to be by qualified majority voting or the country that has been accused of mismanagement of funds will veto it. Does the hon. Gentleman accept that that is a positive example of where it has been necessary to have QMV? Because the Conservative Government were so isolated from the negotiating proceedings, they could achieve nothing. A good deal was achieved by the Labour Government, in addition to many other things.
 Mr. Hogg : Does the right hon. Gentleman understand the anger and distaste of existing PEP holders who have seen their savings capped at £50,000, the statement having been made by a Minister, namely the Paymaster General, who has so ordered his own affairs as to put his millions outside the scope of UK taxation? Is that not a disgraceful double standard?
 Mr. Hogg : Does the right hon. Gentleman understand the anger and distaste of existing— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Douglas Hogg  (Sleaford and North Hykeham) : I have every sympathy with the agriculture industry and the fact that this statement has had to be made. That sympathy extends to the right hon. Gentleman and his colleagues. I greatly welcome the decision to put the SEAC report in the House of Commons Library and otherwise to publish it. Assuming that the contents of that report underpin what the right hon. Gentleman has said, he will have my support for the measures that he has outlined.
 Mr. Elfyn Llwyd  (Meirionnydd Nant Conwy) : Why not?
 Mr. Elfyn Llwyd  (Meirionnydd Nant Conwy) : The right hon. Gentleman began his statement by saying that food safety was a priority. I do not think that anybody would argue with that, but what priority is given to the livelihood of thousands of farmers? He has said candidly that he does not propose to take any steps to recompense the beef industry, which is in the absolute pits. How can he, as the Minister responsible, sit and watch the whole agricultural industry dissipate before our very eyes?
 Mr. Llwyd : Now that the Bill has been published and we are aware that agriculture will be one of the core responsibilities of the forthcoming Assembly, I remind the right hon. Gentleman that there is a huge crisis in Welsh agriculture, so when he sees the unions this afternoon, will he not rule anything out? In particular, will he urgently consider agrimonetary compensation and hill livestock compensatory allowances? Surely now is the time to act, not listen.
1.  Mr. Forth : What representations he has received regarding the establishment of a Welsh Assembly. [17470]
 Mr. Forth : Now that the city fathers of Cardiff seem to have lost interest in having the Assembly in their city, what reassurances can the Secretary of State give to the nervous taxpayers of Wales that, in his increasingly anxious search for a location for the Assembly elsewhere in Wales, they will not be expected to pay ever-increasing amounts to prop up his incompetence?
 Mr. Eric Martlew  (Carlisle) : My right hon. Friend knows that a constituent of mine died from CJD. I should like to press him further on a public inquiry. We have spent billions of pounds on the crisis and slaughtered hundreds of thousands of cattle. Unfortunately, at least 20 people have died. The tragic reality is that there will be more. When will a decision be taken on a public inquiry? My right hon. Friend the Prime Minister said earlier that there would be a statement on that.
 Mr. Streeter : I say it again: the Minister does not understand how Europe works. One of the fundamental reasons for retaining the veto is to enable better negotiations to take place. It is often the veto which will bring people to the negotiating table. The fact that our proposals on fraud did not attract full support one month, two months or three months away from the summit does not mean that they would not have been agreed at the weekend of the summit itself. The Minister knows, or should know, that things are often agreed at the very last minute at European summits. It is the countries that preserve their veto and are prepared to use it which can
 446
 Mr. Streeter : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for that intervention. As usual, he makes a telling and important point which has great substance.
 Mr. Streeter : I am familiar with those words. I have to say that I have compared the way we do things in this country with the way things are done in some other European Union countries, especially the Mediterranean ones, and those words do not reassure me at all. 447 "The Union shall accordingly foster closer institutional relations with the WEU with a view to the possibility of the integration of the WEU into the Union, should the European Council so decide."
 Mr. Streeter : The hon. Gentleman makes a valid point. Yet again, the Labour party does not know how to stand up for British interests. It does not understand how the European Union works.
 Mr. Streeter : In theory, the hon. and learned Gentleman is correct, but my point is a different one. The wording of article J.7 would give the Commission the legal scope to start work on the integration process—to get its ducks in a row—by persuading, encouraging and cajoling member states to sign up for the agenda that it desired. For many years, that has been the Commission's tendency. Clause 1 would give it the scope to do precisely that.
 Mr. Streeter : That is absolutely right. My hon. Friend eloquently makes the point that I am seeking to make. Before they even left this country to go to the summit, the Government told the world media all the things that they were to give up. What a way to negotiate. No wonder they got such a bad deal.
 Mr. Streeter : The hon. Gentleman does not follow the argument because he is incorrect in his assessment. The original Amsterdam summit agenda from some of our European partners and from the Commission was the issue that we were discussing, not this country's
 445
 Mr. Streeter : Having heard the hon. Gentleman's contributions over the past three days of the debate, I believe that he would sign up to anything that comes out of Brussels. Provided that it has the word "European" in it, he is happy—never mind the consequences, or the heart or content of the policy. If it is European, he loves it; that is all he has to say.
 Mr. Gary Streeter  (South-West Devon) : I beg to move amendment No. 66, in page 1, line 13, after '2', insert '(except paragraph 13)'.
 Mr. Streeter : How can I keep a straight face? I am telling a joke.
 Mr. Streeter : This group of amendments deals with two specific issues: the extension of qualified majority voting agreed at Amsterdam, and the extension of the power of the European Parliament, particularly its co-decision powers. On both issues, the Amsterdam treaty amounts to a significant transfer of influence from this Parliament to the institutions of the European Union. On both issues, new Labour failed at Amsterdam. A Government without values and principles have returned to the House of Commons with a treaty that has failed the people of Britain and failed the people of Europe.
 Mr. Streeter : I can do so very easily. The hon. Gentleman misquotes me. I said that the extension of
 444
 Mr. Streeter : I am even more worried than I was a few moments ago. The Minister has not read his brief properly, he has not read the treaty properly and he has not read the protocol properly. He has made another blunder. 450 "A socialist superstate is exactly what we do want to create." "drug dependence is … not a crime which calls for punishment" "drug users should not be prosecuted" "It is in the interests of all of us to … challenge the idea of cutting taxes."
 Mr. Streeter : Not at all. I am simply pointing out what Labour's MEPs, who represent the people of this country in the European Parliament, are like. The Minister is happy to give them more power, gaining nothing for the British people in return.
 Mr. Streeter : The hon. Gentleman has obviously failed to read the treaty, and one can forgive him for that, but one cannot forgive him for failing to read the Conservative manifesto. "For the most part the Treaty delivered the goods."
 Mr. Streeter : The hon. Gentleman may not have read the wording of the treaty sufficiently carefully, as I shall explain. 449
 Mr. Streeter : The hon. Gentleman has not been listening to my points. If he does not yet understand that Europe works precisely in the way that he has described, he has a lot to learn.
 Mr. Streeter : My hon. Friend is absolutely right and picks up the theme of this debate: so many concessions were given by the Minister, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary at Amsterdam, with nothing in return. My hon. Friend has mentioned one more concession., 448
 Mr. Streeter : My hon. Friend makes a very important point. I have listened to almost all Labour Members' speeches over the past three sittings, and it seems that many of them have not read the treaty carefully. Many of them seem to be blinded by any piece of paper that says that it comes from Brussels.
 Mr. Streeter : The hon. Gentleman should know that in our party we do not try to gag duly elected Members of Parliament, as the Labour party has disgracefully tried to do. They cannot even discuss issues that are relevant to their constituents. Labour should reconsider that. "The European Parliament made two major gains at the Conference to become a genuine co-legislator and a full arm of the European legislature alongside the Council: Firstly the co-decision procedure has been considerably extended (see Annex p.1) essentially along the lines of the principle suggested by the Commission in its report of July 1996, whereby any instrument of a legislative nature should be adopted under the co-decision procedure between the European Parliament and the Council." 451
 Mr. Gerald Howarth : I thank the Minister for his comments. In considering the diversification agency, will he acknowledge that the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency is already very conscious that it is the possessor of much valuable technology that has application in the civilian field and that it is working extremely hard and producing results? In a sense, would not the defence diversification agency replicate what the DERA is already doing?
 Mr. Gerald Howarth  (Aldershot) : Is my hon. Friend aware that, last Monday, I had the opportunity of flying
 279
 Mr. Gerry Steinberg  (City of Durham) : As a Member from the northern region, hon. Members from which have been among the main instigators of regional government for the past 20 years, I congratulate my right hon. Friend the Deputy Prime Minister on his statement. We deeply approve of it and strongly support him. Regional assemblies are a wonderful thing as a first step, but will my right hon. Friend give us an idea of when the Government will move towards democratically elected regional assemblies, which is our ultimate aim in the northern region of England?
 Mr. Radice : Perhaps the hon. Member for New Forest, West (Mr. Swayne) did not listen to the speech of the
 403
 Mr. Radice : Good man.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Radice : I shall test the hon. Gentleman on the social chapter. Has he read the last sentence in article 1 or the last sentence in article 2.2?
 Mr. Giles Radice  (North Durham) : Does my hon. Friend consider that one of the problems with the Conservatives' approach is that so few Conservative Members have read the social chapter? I remember reading it during the Maastricht debate and the same was true then. I saw the astonishment on Conservative Members' faces because they had not understood how little was contained in the social chapter, how much was excluded, the way in which it protected small firms and the fact that it had to take account of economic conditions. That is the problem: Conservative Members have not read the social chapter.
 Mr. Radice : No, I want to finish what I am saying. 453
 Mr. Radice : That does not really fall together with the charge that we made concessions before we actually started to negotiate. We set out our negotiating objectives because we believe that it is a good thing to work together in some areas, even if the Conservative party thinks that it is a bad idea to work together with any continentals on any issue. We happened to think that there were sensible objectives.
 Mr. Radice : No, I do not want to tempt myself down that path. I must return to the subject of the amendments.
 Mr. Radice : I said "for the foreseeable future"—I thought that the Conservative party was rather enthusiastic about that formula.
 Mr. Radice : Once again, the hon. Gentleman is using hyperbole. The problem about the hon. Gentleman, whose speeches I have listened to with great attention over many years, is that he invariably exaggerates the position. Even when he has a good case, he lets it down because he always make the situation sound so terrible. It is not. Normally, QMV is a practical way in which to proceed. Practical politicians from European countries get together and say what is in their best interests; often, QMV is the best way in which to proceed.
 Mr. Radice : Yes, but that was when they were in government. It is much easier in opposition to act as a fine, principled Opposition and be against any extension of QMV.
 Mr. Radice : It is true that it is possible that fraud might be committed in our country and we might say that we would like to resist QMV. I believe that it would be a sensible thing for the good of Europe for the articles about fraud to apply on a qualified majority vote. I do not hold the view that any qualified majority voting is, per se, a bad thing. 454
 Mr. Radice : I give way to the hon. Member for Stone (Mr. Cash), who is a veteran of such debates.
 Mr. Radice : One of the problems with the Conservative approach to European matters is the hyperbole of the language used. Nowhere has that been more true than in what Conservative Members have said about the Amsterdam treaty. Before the election, the right hon. and learned Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard), who was then Home Secretary, said that the agenda for the Amsterdam negotiations would undermine the nation state. Treaties are based on agendas, so the right hon. and learned Gentleman was implying that signing up to the treaty would undermine the nation state. Clearly it would not, and even the right hon. and learned Gentleman has had to row back from that ridiculously exposed position, which he hoped would win the general election for the Conservatives.
 Mr. Radice : What about those Conservative MEPs who support the treaty of Amsterdam?
 Mr. Radice : I am glad that the hon. Gentleman admits that the treaty of Amsterdam does not amount to a threat to the nation state. I listened carefully to the shadow Foreign Secretary, who said on a number of occasions that, if we signed up at Amsterdam, it would be a grave threat to the nation state. How can the hon. Gentleman square his position with what his right hon. and learned Friend said before the election?
 Mr. Radice : The working time directive was not decided under the social chapter. It was brought in under health and safety regulations which are already in the treaty of Rome. The argument of the hon. Member for Southend East (Sir. T. Taylor), who is my colleague on the Treasury Select Committee, is irrelevant to the social chapter. He has read it and he knows that many matters are not subject to qualified majority voting, including, for example, those relating to social security and social provision. Social provision, which has been spoken about most by the Opposition, is governed by a national veto.
 Mr. Radice : Is it not the case that, as the Library's research paper on the Bill states:
 "Member States are required to take the same measures to combat fraud affecting the financial interests of the Community as they take regarding similar fraud affecting their own interests"?
 Mr. Radice : The idea of the founding fathers that the European Union would end up as a federal state or a federal super-state has now been undermined, and it was undermined at Maastricht by the subsidiarity clause which ensured that those areas where the nation state would be important should be given priority. One of the problems was that other European countries—I know that the hon. and learned Gentleman agrees with me here—also saw that as giving more power to the regions and local communities. The Liberal Democrats obviously did not, so their idea of subsidiarity was a partial one. 457
 Mr. Radice : I was answering a question.
 Mr. Radice : I am grateful, Mr. Lord. I think that I answered the hon. Gentleman's question to my own satisfaction, if not to his.
 Mr. Radice : I hope that the hon. Gentleman is not going to take up the question asked by the hon. Member for Altrincham and Sale, West (Mr. Brady) after what we have just heard from the Chair.
 Mr. Radice : I thought that it was going to be one of those ratchet-effect arguments—[HoN. MEMBERS: "Answer."] I am not concerned about that, because we are increasingly working together as European nations on a whole range of issues. I rejoice in that fact, just as I rejoice in the fact that we do not have war. Such co-operation is a way to bind us together. The establishment of the single market means there are other areas in which we want to combine and co-operate, and that is precisely what is happening. If that is to be done at the level of the Council of Ministers, the European Parliament requires increased powers. That is precisely what we have got and I rejoice in that.
 Mr. Radice : No, but it is giving powers to the Parliament vis-à-vis the Commission. That was an important change. It is a useful increased power for the Parliament.
 Mr. Radice : I know what the hon. Gentleman is about to ask: whether I am in favour of this—yes or no?
 Mr. Radice : No, provided one retains exemptions that are key issues in the operation of the nation state. In other areas, such as fraud, QMV is plain common sense. That is what Amsterdam is about. I know that the hon. Gentleman wants to exaggerate and, as I have listened to him today, he has tended to do so. If he wants to use hyperbole,
 455
 Mr. Radice : No, I want to get on.
 Mr. Radice : I am in favour of proportional representation both in a general sense and in respect of the European Parliament, where it is sensible for the Parliament to reflect the votes cast. The swings between the parties resulting from small changes in votes under a first-past-the-post system—
 Mr. Radice : I am sure that members of the Treasury Committee would be delighted if Professor Minford appeared before the Committee when we consider issues such as economic and monetary union. No doubt he would talk about the issues to which the hon. Gentleman has referred. Of course, models depend on what assumptions one feeds in: if one feeds in incorrect assumptions, one gets incorrect results.
 Mr. Radice : I know that it is boring to hear the social chapter read out and I know that Conservative Members are not enthusiastic about it because most of them have not read it. However, we have a veto on social security and social protection of workers—the non-wage costs. If those wicked continental Governments are seeking to impose their social costs on us, we can prevent them by using our veto. Have the Conservatives not realised that?
 Mr. Radice : Pay is excluded from the social chapter.
 Mr. Radice : Has the hon. Gentleman read article 2.3 of the social chapter? He will see that there is a British veto if it is a question of
 "—social security and social protection of workers; —protection of workers where their employment contract is terminated; 405 —representation and collective defence of the interests of workers and employers… —conditions of employment for third-country nationals… —financial contributions for promotion of employment".
 Mr. Radice : Tiger economies?
 Mr. Brady : I am most intrigued to know whether the hon. Gentleman is suggesting that measures regarding job security and tenure will be forthcoming under the social chapter. We hear so often that there are only two measures in the social chapter. Is he suggesting otherwise?
 Mr. Brady : I apologise for having missed the beginning of the debate, and, if I may, I shall recount a small anecdote that relates to European matters. I was detained by a Standing Committee that was considering rather arcane matters of copyright law. That provides a perfect illustration of the dangers of allowing any further extension of qualified majority voting, given that, in the very important matter of preserving and protecting databases—an industry in which the UK has more than 50 per cent. of the European market, and which is far more important to the UK than to any of our partners—the British Government were forced to accept that the database would be protected for only 15 years, rather than 25 as we had first wished. I shall not linger on that. I just thought it an interesting illustration of the dangers of allowing control over our legislative processes to leave our shores. 408
 Mr. Brady : I thank the hon. Gentleman for his point. I fear that the treaty is open to different interpretations, given the way in which it has been drafted, and the Commission's view of its effect in practice. The public relations information that has been put out gives the impression of a co-ordinated strategy, but I do not believe that that is the truth of the treaty. 409
 Mr. Brady : I thank my hon. Friend for his contribution. With customary eloquence and clarity, he has put the point rather better than I did. "The Community shall contribute to a high level of employment by encouraging cooperation between Member States and by supporting and, if necessary, complementing their action." 410 411
 Mr. Brady rose—
 Mr. Brady : It is bizarre that the hon. Gentleman accuses us of being anti-European when he raised the subject of Vls or doodlebugs.
 Mr. Brady : Does the hon. Gentleman believe that the accountability that we derive through the European Parliament will be enhanced or lessened by the Government's proposals to change the system of election to the European Parliament, which will mean that his constituents and mine will not know for whom they are voting in the European elections?
 Mr. Brady : I fear that the hon. Gentleman is confusing working together from choice with—as can happen with QMV—being compelled to do something against one's wishes.
 Mr. Graham Brady  (Altrincham and Sale, West) : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for giving way. Does he believe that, when and if Europe has a single currency, there may be similar effects on unemployment in some parts of Europe as there were following German unification? What parallels would he draw between the two?
7.  Mr. Flight : If he will make a statement on per capita spending levels in Wales. [17476]
 Mr. Flight : How does that compare with spending per capita in England? If, as I suspect, it is some 25 per cent. higher, will there be a fair apportionment of spending between the people of England and of Wales when the minority of Wales has its Assembly?
 Mr. Ian Bruce : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Ian Bruce  (South Dorset) : Does my hon. Friend agree—I hope that this point is helpful to the Minister—that we are debating amendments to a treaty which amends two treaties and certain Acts, yet we do not have a consolidated text? Clearly, Labour Members, who have not read the articles as well as my hon. Friend, are having difficulty in understanding what the issue is all about. Surely the Government should have provided a consolidated document which we could discuss.
 Mr. Ian Pearson  (Dudley, South) : May I warmly welcome my right hon. Friend's statement as an important
 371
 Mr. Ian Stewart  (Eccles) : I am grateful, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that I have been allowed to make my first formal contribution on such an important issue. It is sad to note that not a single Conservative Back Bencher has seen fit to come to the Chamber to take part in this important debate. 298 299 300 "address the concern that public money should not be used to finance competition between different parts of the country."—[ Official Report 281. 301
 Mr. Clappison : 1 hope that the Government will not aggravate their problems with Cardiff city council by seeking to locate the Welsh Assembly on a green-field
 345
6.  Mr. Clappison : What plans he has to ensure that housing developments in Wales are restricted to brown-field sites. [17475]
 The Minister of State, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mr. Jeff Rooker) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for South Swindon (Ms Drown) on securing the debate. I also congratulate my hon. Friends the Members for North Swindon (Mr. Wills) and for Stroud (Mr. Drew) on their assiduous concern for their constituents. It is right and proper that they raise the matter in the House. I shall do my best in the time available to answer some, if not all, of their points. 319 320 321
 Mr. Jim Cousins  (Newcastle upon Tyne, Central) : I hope that you will forgive me, Madam Speaker—I am not entering myself for Creep of the Week award; nor would I attempt to make my right hon. Friend blush, because the task is impossible. However, I congratulate him on 20 years of principle and persistence that have brought him to his statement in the House today. We in the north-east thoroughly support him on it.
 Mr. Bercow : Does the Minister believe that 60 additional politicians in a Welsh Assembly will help to bring a single inward investment project to Britain that would not in any case have been secured?
 Mr. Bercow : Oh?
 Mr. Bercow : The hon. Gentleman should know by now that I am a soft-centred individual. If he is not aware of that yet, he will be in the future. May I ask a simple factual question? Does he accept that, between 1974 and 1994, 31 million new jobs were created in the private sector in the United States and that precisely none were created in the European Union?
 .Mr. Bercow : The hon. Gentleman is filibustering his own Bill.
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) rose—
 Mr. Bercow : I have listened to the hon. Gentleman's strictures on the social chapter with the greatest possible interest. What does he say about Commissioner Flynn's proposal that works councils should be established in companies with 50 employees or more? Is he opposed to it? If so, is there the slightest prospect of the Government doing something about it?
 Mr. Bercow : Churchill?
 Mr. Bercow 
 rose—
 Mr. Bercow : I should love to. We all appreciate the hon. Gentleman's genial spirit, but he is meandering somewhat. I shall rescue him with an alternative challenge. Does he think that the American model or the European model is a better route to the creation of jobs?
 Mr. Bercow : Oh!
 Mr. Bercow rose
 Mr. Bercow rose
 Mr. Bercow rose
 Mr. Bercow : I am sorry to disappoint the hon. Gentleman. I am listening to his contribution with rapt attention. Does he accept that a continuous extension of QMV will ultimately break the umbilical cord which links the Government and the governed?
 Mr. Bercow : If the hon. Gentleman does not accept that there is currently a ratchet effect working in favour
 456
 Mr. Bercow : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Bercow : I entirely agree with my hon. Friend. Is he aware that the 1989 social charter, to the principles of which this country is now committed, refers to leave that must "progressively be harmonised"? Does he agree that that is not only consistent with what he is saying, but is in direct conflict with the point made by the hon. Member for Gedling (Mr. Coaker)?
 Mr. Bercow : I fear that the hon. Gentleman is working himself up into a lather of excitement before a good dinner. I am enjoying his speech, but I fear that he has started on an unfortunate note. He referred to the CBI. Does he acknowledge that the CBI is not Euro-sceptic, but is opposed to the social chapter and to the Government's policy in relation to that because it knows that the social chapter will damage the cause of British business and British employment?
 Mr. Bercow : Will the hon. Gentleman answer the question that the hon. Member for Ilford, South (Mr. Gapes) declined to answer? Does he believe that the American model is a better route to job creation than the European model, or does he believe that the European model is better? There must be an answer.
 Mr. Bercow : I am richly enjoying the hon. Gentleman's speech, but he resembles nothing so much as a shifting goal post. Let us try to identify exactly where he stands. He regards himself as a good European. Does he therefore believe that holiday pay throughout the European Union should be harmonised under the provisions of the social chapter—yes or no?
 Mr. Bercow : Does the hon. Gentleman believe that the parental leave directive will increase employment in Britain?
 Mr. Greenway : I was aware of that and I am grateful to my hon. Friend and other Members for their support.
 Mr. John Greenway  (Ryedale) : I am grateful for the opportunity to say a few words on a constituency matter. I congratulate the hon. Member for Chorley (Mr. Hoyle) on securing the debate. Two points that he made stand out and fit very well with the comments that I want to make. 278
 Mr. Greenway : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his support. He mentioned the fact that the United States air force bought more than 100 Fireflys five years ago, for which the company involved won the Queen's award for exports. There have been three fatalities involving the aircraft in the United States, but I understand that every one was due to a lack of proper training by the flight instructors at one air base in the United States. Where the flight instructors have been properly trained, the aircraft has proved entirely satisfactory, so no one should suggest that there is anything fundamentally wrong with the Firefly. It is proving to be an excellent aircraft in our armed forces. 280
 Mr. John Gunnell  (Morley and Rothwell) : I congratulate my right hon. Friend on his statement. I heard him talk about regional development in 1977, and many times since. I congratulate him and the Minister for the regions on their work over the years on behalf of regional government and regional development agencies.
 Mr. John Gunnell  (Morley and Rothwell) : I beg to move,
 That leave be given to bring in a Bill to amend the Mental Health Act 1983 to prescribe the circumstances in which electro-convulsive therapy may be used without the patient's consent; to establish who may administer it; to lay down requirements governing the apparatus with which it is administered; and for related purposes. "lack knowledge about one or more basic issue related to effective administration of ECT." "maximum efficacy and minimal side-effects" "access to, and training in the use of, appropriate equipment. 394 "but as experience is acquired, and if opinion changes, we shall be able to move it into the more serious …category."— [Official Report Question put and agreed to.
 Mr. John Hayes  (South Holland and The Deepings) : In developing this argument about democratic legitimacy, which I believe that he does appropriately, will my hon. Friend agree that the effect is multiplied by the increasing remoteness of the exercise of power and incomprehension on the part of the electorate? The point about the exercise that we are going through, which the treaty exacerbates, is that the vast majority of the electorate throughout Europe do not understand how those processes work because the thing is so deliberately esoteric, so that democratic legitimacy is not delivered on that basis as well as on the basis that my hon. Friend is explaining to the House.
 Mr. John Home Robertson  (East Lothian) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. This matter arises from a hearing of the Accounts Commission for Scotland held in Haddington last Friday, 28 November, to look into an excellent 1985 initiative by East Lothian district council. I have expressed my opinion of that matter in early-day motion 479. "it was regrettable that the Member of Parliament had seen fit not to be present in view of the serious statement that he had made"
 Mr. John Hutton  (Barrow and Furness) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Chorley (Mr. Hoyle) on initiating the debate. It is also a great pleasure to follow the right hon. Member for Kensington and Chelsea (Mr. Clark). Both my hon. Friend and the right hon. Gentleman spoke with a great deal of common sense. 275 276 277
 Mr. John MacGregor  (South Norfolk) : Given that Scotland will now have its own Parliament and Wales will have its own Assembly, does the right hon. Gentleman recognise that one of the greatest concerns for the English regions, and cause of great unfairness to them, is the Barnett formula? Its application means that there is much higher public expenditure per head in Scotland and Wales than is now justified by the facts. Lord Barnett believes that that formula should be reformed. What does the right hon. Gentleman intend to do about that?
Q7. [17505]  Mr. McDonnell : As well as ignoring the hypocritical cant from the Opposition, will my right hon. Friend intervene at this late stage in the discussions on lone-parent benefits, and in the spirit of his concept of the giving age, to refer the issue to the newly formed social exclusion unit to address the genuine and deep-seated concerns of many Labour Members, in order to avoid the tragedy of the new Government being the first Labour Government to cut benefit for the poorest children in our community?
 Mr. Prescott : I took the opportunity to read the report of the debate on 20 June 1975 when the proposals for the Scottish Development Agency were brought before the House. Everything that the right hon. Gentleman has just said was said in that debate by the Opposition. 361 [Interruption.]
 The Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Mr. John Prescott) :With permission, Madam Speaker, I should like to make a statement on the English regions. 358 359
 Mr. Prescott : The Barnett formula was devised for the fair distribution of resources between England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. I accept that there have been complaints about it, but we have made it clear in the White Paper, particularly in relation to devolution in Scotland, that we have no intention of changing it. It could be subject to a review at any stage by the newly elected Parliament for Scotland, the Welsh Assembly, and English regions to discuss any perceived unfairness. At this stage, however, we have made it clear that we have no intention of conducting such a review. 364 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Prescott : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his kind remarks. To have a level playing field is our intention—we need to bring that about. I believe that the regional development agencies will mean that the English regions will be able to play a much more effective part in attracting inward investment than they could play without them.
 Mr. Prescott : The direct answer is that it is a matter for the House whether we establish such Committees, but,
 362
 Mr. Prescott : The boundaries will be determined when we consider the democratic accountability of the agencies and will be the legitimate concern of whatever structures are then in place. The proposed boundaries are those of the Government offices, set up by the previous Administration, and we have been happy to accept them. It is easier and quicker to work on those boundaries in setting up the agencies. 363
 Mr. Prescott : I have made it clear to the House that we recognise the problem of competition between the different areas, but, in establishing the English regions, we are not declaring for a federal United Kingdom. The English regions constitute England, and there is Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland. There will be a certain amount of competition between the bodies and we want a level playing field. However, in the early stages of the development—perhaps towards regional government, if that is the evolutionary change towards which we are moving—each body will be represented in the Cabinet by the Secretaries of State for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and I am happy to represent the English regions.
 Mr. Prescott : I take your point on board, Madam Speaker. The matter of co-operatives is an important one. If we look for differences to explain why European regions have done far better than the English regions, we see that their advantage lies not only in their development agencies, but in their development of a far more comprehensive co-operative system, especially in France.
 Mr. Prescott : That was quite an intelligent contribution until the last remark. There is a real issue in respect of competition for subsidies—there is no doubt that it is a real problem. The Government of which the right hon. Gentleman was a member were unable to do anything about it and, as he rightly acknowledges, they did not do anything about it. We believe that we have to do something. With the number of English agencies that will be set up, we rightly say that we want a level playing field and fair treatment. We have to have greater transparency about the amount of resources available to all those regions for attracting inward investment. It is our intention to achieve that. 365
 Mr. Prescott : I thank my hon. Friend for his comments. I accept his argument. In earlier publications
 370
 Mr. Prescott : I certainly understand my hon. Friend's point regarding regional assemblies as an alternative to democratically elected bodies. I have a preference—I think all parliamentarians would—for democratically elected bodies. 369
 Mr. Prescott : One of the problems with regard to how much grant has been given to inward investment in the past is the fact that the previous Government constantly claimed that it was commercially sensitive information, and the information was not made available. We have seen some information, though not enough to arrive at that conclusion.
 Mr. Prescott : I remember one of my first visits to the south-west. I listened to people in Devon strongly disagreeing with people in Cornwall, and they both hated the city of Bristol. It taught me an important lesson: do not make the mistake of thinking that when one talks of a region, one is talking for the whole region; there are strong and competing interests in sub-regional economies.
 Mr. Prescott : I shall pass on my hon. Friend's comments about the regional Select Committees to the appropriate authorities, but that is a matter for the House.
 Mr. Prescott : There is no doubt that there are sub-regional parts of an economy that cannot be centralised in a region and one cannot assume that there is one pattern for all the regions. Anyone who knows our English regions, with their industrial and rural make-up, knows that they vary from one end to the other. Therefore, we must be flexible and adjust to that. That is why we want a regional body rather than a Whitehall organisation. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Prescott : I remember that I enjoyed the visit to Wigan pier and to the school that is on it, but I cannot give my hon. Friend any assurances about the location of the regional headquarters. Indeed, it would be wrong for a central Government official or a Minister to take what is essentially a decision to be taken in the regions.
 Mr. Prescott : The points made by my hon. Friend are absolutely right. In the White Paper we quoted various organisations that normally ally with the Tory party, but which find themselves yet again at odds with it on a fundamental issue of policy. I note that the Opposition spokesman did not say that they would abolish those agencies if we set them up. It is for them to make that decision in the future—now they are the Opposition and we are the Government, and there is a heck of a difference.
 Mr. Prescott : One envisages UDI for Banbury. We shall wait and see whether the people of Banbury agree with that.
 Mr. Prescott : That is an important point. We are looking at the urban development corporations—there are about eight of them, which we will wind up—and the Commission for the New Towns. We intend to put them into one body, which will share a common chairman with the Commission for the New Towns and English Partnerships, performing some of the national functions and roles of those bodies, as we outline in the White Paper.
 Mr. Prescott : The last point about investment in London Underground comes a bit ill, given the disinvestment in London transport during the past 18 years. London Transport wants some £7 billion to modernise its infrastructure. A Greater London Authority will be able to deal with that much more effectively than a central Government. The previous Government took over that function from the GLC, which was doing much better at it than they did.
 Mr. Prescott : Clearly, we would wish to achieve a balance, but one that reflects the regional priorities. In most of these public appointments, the Nolan committee rules will apply.
 Mr. Prescott : Regional grants and assistance are under review in Europe, as the hon. Gentleman knows, and the boundaries are being considered. We must await that review in order to make a proper assessment
 Mr. John Smith  (Vale of Glamorgan) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Is it in order that Members of Parliament are impeded in carrying out their parliamentary duties by the outrageous behaviour of a public transport company? I had to travel to Gravesend this morning to meet the flagship of the standing NATO fleet and had allowed plenty of time to allow for the usual delays and breakdowns. The train stopped at Crayford, where all the passengers were forced to get off, apparently for no other reason than that the train was running late. Had it not been for the quick thinking and co-operation of some of the passengers, I would not have got to my engagement. If you can assist in any way, Madam Speaker, it would benefit not only many hon. Members, but many commuters.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Defence (Mr. John Spellar) : I must correct the hon. Gentleman. I did attend the exhibition and visited a number of stands.
 Mr. Spellar : I do not wish to pre-empt the outcome of the Green Paper on the defence diversification agency. The hon. Gentleman will know that we have already acknowledged the considerable role played by DERA and our intention to build in best practice in our application of the defence diversification agency. This is about applying the fruits of investment and technology in the civil sector of the industry, spreading the technological processes and skills that have been developed for defence into new civil markets, which can strengthen the industrial base—and, indeed, the defence industrial base—as well as contribute to Britain' s improved economic performance. "Europe's defence industry must rationalise or die." 288 289
 Mr. Spellar : I thank my hon. Friend not only for his intervention but for the strong interest that he has taken in the subject since being elected to the House and for the strong way in which he has championed the industry. He is absolutely right that maintenance of the industrial base and supply chain and the interaction between the civil and military sides of many of those companies is an important feature of the defence industry. We are mindful of that feature, and we certainly take it into account in our deliberations—not least those on the strategic defence review. 286 "On the future of the UK defence industry in the global marketplace, one of the policy principles underpinning the strategic defence review is the Government's commitment—previously made in opposition—to a strong, capable and competitive UK defence industry."—[ Official Report 287 "We support a strong UK defence industry, which is a strategic part of our industrial base as well as our defence effort. We believe that part of its expertise can be extended to civilian use through a defence diversification agency."
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Defence (Mr. John Spellar) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Chorley (Mr. Hoyle) on securing this debate and on his vigorously presented case on behalf of the defence industry and its employees, especially those involved in the Eurofighter and future large aircraft programmes and the aerospace industry. 284
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Defence (Mr. John Spellar) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Great Yarmouth (Mr. Wright) on securing this debate and on his choice of subject for his maiden speech. We were pleased to hear his vivid description and interesting historical examples of his home town, which is also his constituency. I suspect that he will be representing its interests for many years to come. 466 467 468
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : May I remind the right hon. Gentleman that he is proposing an extraordinary duplication of functions for London? He said that the London development agency will be responsible for inward investment, transport and planning, all of which, according to the Minister for London during the passage of the Greater London Authority (Referendum) Bill, are functions which will be undertaken by the Greater London Authority.
 Mr. Wilkinson : In the consultative document that will help those who are involved with the legislative process of the Government of Wales Bill, will the right hon. Gentleman consider locating the Assembly on two sites on the European model, one in the north to please the hon. Member for Alyn and Deeside (Mr. Jones), and one in the south to please the hon. Member for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson) and the right hon. Member for Swansea, West (Mr. Williams), and perhaps, on the Luxembourg model, with a secretariat in mid-Wales in between?
 Mr. Ken Purchase  (Wolverhampton, North-East) : May I give the warmest possible welcome to the plans of the Secretary of State and his team for regional development agencies? They will help to reinvigorate and re-identify the personalities of our regions across the nation on an equal footing, one with another, with proper consideration for economic welfare within each region. We in the west midlands—an area which has experienced great devastation as a result of over-centralised policy making here in Westminster—will be given the opportunity to reinvigorate ourselves with the help of sensible planning and a proper framework of regional assemblies and regional development agencies.
 Mr. Purchase : There was a question about cooperatives.
 Mr. Hoyle : I shall Help the right hon. Gentleman by repeating what I said. We know that the FLA cannot carry a main battle tank, but we are buying the C130J, which also cannot carry a main battle tank. The FLA can carry everything except the main battle tank, but, as we have noticed, the main battle tank is not needed by a fast reaction force. Unfortunately, the C130J cannot carry many tanks either, so we must make a choice. I believe that the decision lies with the FLA, because the C130J cannot carry the infantry Warrior, which is important. 270 271
 Mr. Hoyle : I welcome the hon. Member's remarks—and I welcome his conversion to Labour's procurement policy. I take on board his comments. We have the research facilities, the skills, and the development in the north-west: it would be madness to move it elsewhere. The Government are planning for the future. I am pleased that the hon. Gentleman supports that, and I look forward to his continuing support of the Government's policy. I cannot disagree with a word that the hon. Gentleman said.
 Mr. Hoyle : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that the RAF is also happy with the Firefly? It has a proven record in the United States and it will support British industry and jobs. That is why the Minister should support the aircraft.
 Mr. Lindsay Hoyle  (Chorley) : I am grateful for the opportunity to lead this debate. 268 269
 Mr. Llew Smith : I welcome the Secretary of State's announcement about new jobs in the Ebbw Vale community. Does he recognise that the Welsh Office's preferred option for the A465 Heads of the Valley road will run through the Rassau industrial estate and could affect the future development of that factory? Would the Secretary of State or one of his Ministers be willing to meet and discuss the matter with the local authority?
 Mr. Malcolm Bruce  (Gordon) : Does the Minister accept that I do not take issue with his need to come to the House and make a statement in the light of information available to him? However, may I report the despairing phone calls that I have received from farmers in my constituency today and a call from Paris on a mobile phone from the chief executive of what used to be our biggest beef exporter? He is now struggling to export lamb and salmon to the continent and asking whether there is any point in keeping his business going, because he cannot cope with this trickle of announcements. We need to reach a position in which, first, we have a real prospect of eliminating BSE from the herd, and, secondly, we have in place a traceability scheme that is accepted by the European Union and will enable us to get back into the marketplace.
 Mr. Mark Todd  (South Derbyshire) : I should like to pursue the question raised by the hon. Member for Tiverton and Honiton (Mrs. Browning), about the status of bone within the food chain. My right hon. Friend has said that it will not be classified as a specified risk material in the future, so that leaves the status of the material in limbo and the arrangements governing its storage and disposal slightly in doubt. What arrangements has his Department made for the large amounts of material that will require disposal in the future?
 Mr. Martyn Jones  (Clwyd, South) : Will my right hon. Friend note that there have been no calls for an inquiry from Conservative Members? That is because, were we to have an inquiry, it would show the farmers who were the architects of their disastrous state.
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : In considering the ratchet, or the lack of it, has the hon. Gentleman given any thought to the protocol on subsidiarity with regard to the Amsterdam treaty, which alters the onus of proof in relation to whether these matters should be dealt with at Community level or otherwise?
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : Like Maastricht.
 Mr. Menzies Campbell : The hon. Gentleman is undoubtedly already thoroughly familiar with article J.7. If it is a matter of, as the language says,
 "should the European Council so decide",
 Mr. Menzies Campbell  (North-East Fife) : Come on. Keep a straight face.
 Mr. Michael Fallon  (Sevenoaks) rose—
 Mr. Fallon rose—
 Mr. Fallon : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Michael Fallon  (Sevenoaks) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Eccles (Mr. Stewart) on finally making his maiden speech. As he explained, it was through no fault of his own that he was unable to do so until this morning. He paid a generous tribute to his predecessor who is well remembered and well respected on both sides of the House. He gave us an interesting tour d'horizon of Eccles and, perhaps, a glimpse of a streak of, independent-mindedness when he referred to the need to maintain the present level of benefits. I hope that that streak of independent-mindedness does not lead him too quickly on to the list prepared by the Minister without Portfolio, but we shall watch his progress with interest.
 Mr. Fallon : Today's debate is a direct consequence of the devolution Bill.
 Mr. Fallon : The hon. Gentleman is falling directly into the trap that we have set for him. Of course those tensions
 305 306
 Mr. Fallon : The hon. Gentleman did not give way to me, but, as I am more generous than he is, I will give way to him.
 Mr. Fallon : The hon. Gentleman tries to tempt me, but it is not my job to answer questions about percentages; it is the Minister's job when she replies to the debate. I notice that the hon. Gentleman does not deny what I said: he wants no cap or restraint on Locate in Scotland's autonomy and ability to subsidise—
 Mr. Fallon : I have given way generously. 307
 Mr. Fallon : I apologise, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I was wrongly tempted by the Scottish National party to turn to my left. 308
 Mr. Fallon : Who does she think did that?
 Mr. Fallon : It is all ours.
 Mr. Fallon : I take it from that intervention that the hon. Lady expects Britain's percentage of inward investment projects coming into Europe to rise above 40 per cent. if she says that the present Government's European policy is more positive than ours was. In July 1998, we shall discover whether that is true.
 Mr. Fallon rose—
 Mr.Michael Jabez Foster (Hastings and Rye) : My hon. Friend is an expert in such matters. Can he tell me how many times the previous Government agreed to QMV? Am I right in believing that they did so on 42 occasions?
 Mr. Michael Howard  (Folkestone and Hythe) : I shall be brief in responding to the debate. I agree, of course, with the Minister that it has been a good debate. Unfortunately, none of the essential arguments advanced by Opposition Members throughout the debate has received a vestige of an answer from the Government. None of the facts that we have cited has been challenged; none of the evidence has been impugned. 438
 Mr. Michael Jack  (Fylde) : I thank the Minister for giving me a copy of his statement in adequate time, so that I could read it before he put it before the House. I appreciate his courtesy. 374
 The Second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means (Mr. Michael Lord) : Order.
 The Second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means (Mr. Michael Lord) : The hon. Gentleman will have to decide on one hon. Member
 The First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. It might help the hon. Gentleman to know that we are not debating all matters European, but the amendment that deals with employment and social provisions. Perhaps he would care to address that matter.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. We must move to the next debate.
 Mr. Michael Moore  (Tweeddale, Ettrick and Lauderdale) : It is sensible that we should have discussions around the UK and achieve a concordat between the different nations and regions, but does my hon. Friend agree that there should be no dumbing down of the process with the high quality work being done by agencies such as Locate in Scotland being reduced to some lowest common denominator to suit the DTI?
 Sir Michael Spicer  (West Worcestershire) : Does the right hon. Gentleman accept that the income differences that were used in the past to justify vast differentials in subsidies between England and Wales no longer exist?
 Sir Michael Spicer : Why do we have to have such an agreement?
 Sir Michael Spicer  (West Worcestershire) : Why cannot the rules that affect the export of British beef to the continent of Europe be applied immediately to imports of beef from the continent of Europe? Why do we have to wait for 1 January? Is the right hon. Gentleman aware that his comment to the effect that that delay is some kind of a disappointment to the industry is the understatement of the year? The industry is now on its knees and surely he should do something about it immediately.
 Mr. Michael Wills (North Swindon) : I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me the speak in the debate. I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for South Swindon (Ms Drown) on bringing this important matter to the attention of the House, and on her cogent analysis of the issues. 317
 Mr. Mike Gapes  (Ilford, South) : When we were discussing the Bill yesterday, I was trying to explain to the Committee and to Conservative Members my view that the proposals in the social chapter were an important contribution to the success of building harmony and a social partnership between employers and employees throughout the European Union. Today, I start by emphasising the fact that there are in this country many companies that were already implementing the provisions of the European directive concerning works councils before our Government signed up to the social chapter. 397 "It is estimated that, regardless of whether we are in or out of the Social Chapter, 113 UK-based companies will have to set up European Works Councils or other procedures under the Directive because of the number of their employees in other" "Member States. It is likely that most of these companies will choose not to exclude their UK workforce from any arrangements they make. Some 57" "agreements have already been reached in UK companies and all include UK employees. All but 6 are in companies covered by the Directive."
 Mr.Gapes : I give way to the hon. Member for stone (Mr. Cash)
 Mr. Gapes : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for that comment because, as on so many other connected matters, he is right. He has read the social chapter and all the other matters that we are debating in the Committee.
 Mr. Gapes : I was fortunate enough to come across some interesting statistics that show that unemployment in certain European countries is falling faster than it is in the United States. Among those countries are Sweden and Germany. That clearly shows that the model the hon. Gentleman wishes to pursue—the American model—lock, stock and barrel, which has no social protection or legislation to help protect the poor, the disabled and those with other problems, is at variance with the European model, which I prefer.
 Mr. Gapes : The hon. Gentleman seems to be a little agitated. Does he wish to intervene?
 Mr. Gapes : Yes. I refer to the right hon. Member who, having started off in Dundee and Oldham, finished his parliamentary career in the borough I am also pleased
 400
 Mr. Gapes : If everything should not be left to the market, I presume that there must be minimum standards and regulations to prevent exploitation and injustice, just as was proposed by a former Prime Minister and Conservative leader when he was responsible for wages councils in th early years of this century.
 Mr. Gapes : Had this country not signed up to the social chapter, the Government could have done nothing about it. The only way this country can influence the outcome of discussions and negotiations on these matters is by being at the table—rather than opting out. 399
 Mr. Gapes : That was a most interesting intervention. There is clearly a deep philosophical division between those who believe that Governments have no role in setting minimum standards and those who follow that logic and believe that everything should simply be left to the markets.
 Mr. Gapes : I am sorry, but I fail to understand the relevance of that intervention to the social chapter. I presume that it relates to internal German domestic law—if the hon. Gentleman is right. I am not sure whether he is; it certainly has nothing to do with the European Union or the social chapter.
 Mr. Gapes : I am surprised that the hon. Gentleman says that he has read the social chapter. I suggest that he reads it again because anyone who has read it and the directive knows that small companies are specifically excluded. Conservative Europhobes have an amazing misunderstanding of, or deliberately misrepresent, the situation. Their stance would be greeted with hysteria among Conservative and Christian Democrat parties in all other member states of the European Union
 Mr. Gapes : If the hon. Gentleman wants to intervene, I am happy to give way to him. Otherwise, I should be grateful if he did not make contributions from a sedentary position.
 Mr. Gapes : Those are interesting statistics. I shall check the facts when I have read the transcript of that interesting intervention. Even if they were true, which I doubt, they would be irrelevant to the argument about the social chapter, which is a recent innovation in the EU. The figures that the hon. Gentleman quotes from the early 1970s are neither here nor there. We must deal with the situation in the 1990s.
 Mr. Gapes : There are no direct parallels. The argument about a single currency is for the debate on a different amendment. I would prefer not to go down that road now. I should be happy to read out the document produced by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer if the hon. Gentleman so wishes, but that is a matter for a later debate.
 Mr. Gapes : We can discuss that matter in the context of a later amendment.
 Mr. Gapes : The reaction from the Conservative Benches is somewhat different. Tom Spencer called the treaty
 "a useful consolidation and clarification of the existing treaties and it should be accepted by both government and opposition in Westminster."
 Mr. Gapes : That was easy. I have more quotations, if other hon. Gentlemen want to intervene. Anthony Teasdale, MEP, was the special adviser to the right hon. and learned Member for Rushcliffe (Mr. Clarke) when he was at the Treasury before the election. Mr. Teasdale wrote a pamphlet with another Conservative MEP, Mr. Brendan Donnelly. The pamphlet, entitled "What's Right with the Amsterdam Treaty", was published only in October, so perhaps hon. Gentlemen have not yet had a chance to rush out and buy a copy. "Whatever the merits and demerits of such a move, everyone understood that it would follow if Labour were elected, Amsterdam Treaty or no Amsterdam Treaty. It is therefore perverse for critics to attack the treaty for incorporating the Social Chapter, and any criticism of this kind is likely to cut little ice with an electorate which accepted the legitimacy of UK accession by its vote on the general election of 1 May."
 Mr. Gapes : I am grateful to my hon. Friend.
 Mr. Gapes : In which case, why is the hon. Gentleman arguing for the removal of the social chapter from the Bill? I fail to understand his argument: he wants the social chapter to be removed and to be kept in. I am a little surprised.
 Mr. Gapes : If it were true that those were simply matters for other European states, I would be extremely concerned. Measures can be taken by national Governments to deal with the problem, as our Government are dealing with the legacy of the past 18 years by creating the welfare to work programme and by co-ordinated activity between the member states of the European Union, which is why the employment chapter was put into the Amsterdam treaty.
 Mr. Gapes : If the original remarks were about the agenda, is that why the Conservative party is no longer pressing for a referendum on the Amsterdam treaty? Does it now recognise that it is a modest treaty which brings about no significant or serious change?
 Mr. Nick Ainger  (West Carmarthen and South Pembrokeshire) : I thank my right hon. Friend for his statement and the prompt way in which those matters have been brought before the House—unlike what happened under the previous Administration. I am sure that he is well aware of the desperation, especially among Welsh farmers, and of the blockades that, unfortunately, have occurred over the past two days. Clearly, they have been prompted by the collapse in the market price for their product. Over the period during which there has been a substantial reduction in the price of beef in our marts, that has not been reflected in the price that consumers pay in supermarkets.
 Mr. Nick Harvey  (North Devon) : I welcome the creation of regional development agencies and the extensive process of consultation that took place beforehand, but does the Secretary of State recognise the disappointment and frustration in the English regions at the fact that no new funds will be available to enable those bodies to compete on a level basis with the development agencies in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, in both attracting inward investment and levering funds out of Europe? If we are simply to have new bodies to churn existing funds, is not that falling into the same trap into which the previous Government fell?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Mr. Nick Raynsford) : I congratulate the hon. Member for West Derbyshire (Mr. McLoughlin) on his success in obtaining this Adjournment debate and on his speech on the future of quarrying at Longstone Edge. He is lucky to have such magnificent countryside as that part of the Peak district in his constituency. It is right that he should be extolling its beauty and defending its interests. He has raised a very important issue. 326 "fundamentally affect the economic structure of the operation." 327 328 329
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that it is strategically important to ensure that work on the Al Yamahma contract, EFA, the Tornado, Hawk and other aircraft production continues in and around my constituency? It is also important to retain research and development skills in that area in order to ensure that we secure alliances with other European countries in the future to produce aircraft such as the
 272
 Mr. Evans : Britain has always done well out of inward investment and Wales has done especially well, attracting into the Principality one fifth of inward investment. However, has the Minister estimated how many extra inward investment projects will need to come about to make up for the loss of jobs in Welsh farming? Irrespective of what he and the Secretary of State for Wales say, many jobs will be lost. One commentator says that Welsh farming is bleeding to death. That is a result of the policies of the Minister and of the Government; high interest rates are sucking in cheap imports. With their policies, the Minister and the Government are helping to kill off Welsh farming. What are they going to do about it?
 Sir Norman Fowler  (Sutton Coldfield) : The fundamental issue is not the goal of regional development, which we all want, but how it is to be achieved. We have serious doubts and concerns about the new development agencies that the Secretary of State is proposing. Will he
 360 "The break-up of the Rural Development Commission sends a negative message to rural England and is a devastating blow for the commission." The Scotsman
 Mr. Letwin : My hon. Friend may be understating the position. Does he agree that, in all probability, the hon. Member for Stone (Mr. Cash)—and perhaps also he himself—knows the social chapter by heart?
 Mr. Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : The hon. Gentleman is providing the dual benefit of entertaining the House and being patient with it. Does he realise that almost every provision to be introduced under the social chapter—one of which, incidentally, the hon. Gentleman referred to as a proposal, but is a directive that was debated by European Standing Committee B this morning—is already implemented in one form or another in most of the European states which have, as my hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Mr. Bercow) pointed out, produced zero employment gain over the period in which the United States has produced some 30 million jobs? 401
 Mr. Letwin : I apologise for intervening again so soon, but the point made by the hon. Member for North Durham (Mr. Radice) must be nailed. It is clear in article 137 of the social chapter that we do not have a veto over measures relating to working conditions. The fears that were being expressed by my hon. Friends arise on precisely that point.
 Mr. Letwin : Will the hon. Gentleman explain what he means by the interesting notion of our having the opportunity to take part in the discussion and having a voice? Will he relate it to what happened this morning in European Standing Committee B? The Committee considered three directives and was told specifically that the Government had failed to analyse them but felt that they had to sign up to them. What does the hon. Gentleman believe to be the characteristic of sitting at the table and having a voice if that voice is constantly contradicted by a large number of voices across the table?
 Mr. Letwin : Yes, the tiger economies: notwithstanding their current difficulties, they will beat the British and the rest of the Europeans hands down if we cannot match their practices, practice for practice. Does the hon. Member for Ealing, North (Mr. Pound) agree that we are part of a global marketplace and not merely part of the European marketplace?
 Mr. Letwin : I am most grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his patience in taking interventions, but I think that he has failed to realise the force of the question asked by my hon. Friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale (Mr. Collins). He asked not about the hon. Gentleman's views on Schengen but about the structure of his argument. So far, the hon. Gentleman has made an argument in favour of certain types of social legislation; the House understands that. Such legislation could be enacted domestically. The only argument that he has made so far in favour of incorporating such provisions in the treaty—and, more specifically, incorporating the treaty into English law—is that we should have a voice at the table. If that is a general principle, it should extend throughout the scope of European legislation. He must therefore—I hope—be about to present some other argument for incorporating into English law the provisions dealt with by this group of amendments and new clauses.
 Mr. Letwin : I am tremendously grateful to the hon. Gentleman, and I assure him that I will not intervene again in his speech. In claiming that we have to take a European view, however, he has now hit the nub of the issue. Will he admit that we are part of a global
 416
 Mr. Letwin : I wish to spare the Committee possible trial and tribulation. I take it that the hon. Gentleman intends to argue why the provisions should be included in the treaty and why there should be European legislation on the matter, rather than whether there should be national legislation on the matter as he appears to be doing.
 Mr. Owen Paterson  (North Shropshire) : Is the hon. Gentleman saying that the reason why legislation should not be presented in this House is because the Opposition would oppose it? That seems a strange reason.
 Mr. Paterson : The referendum showed that an overwhelming majority of Welsh people do not want the Assembly. Will the Secretary of State please explain why £100 million over four years is better spent on a talking shop for superannuated county councillors than on front-line services such as health, schools or—topically this week—Welsh farmers?
9.  Mr. Paterson : If he will make a statement on the cost of the Welsh Assembly. [17479]
 Mr. Ashdown : Leaving aside for a moment the fact that the Prime Minister seems to be as good this week as he was last week at misrepresenting the Liberal Democrat position on the basis of what he well knows to be an inaccuracy, I turn to a different—and perhaps even more serious—subject.
 Mr. Ashdown : I am grateful to the Prime Minister for that reassuring answer, and I am particularly grateful for his statement that he will do anything he can to compensate and assist farmers. I remind him that there is a great deal of unclaimed money in the European Union. 348
 Mr. Patrick McLoughlin  (West Derbyshire) : I am grateful for the opportunity to raise this matter today. It may seem that, whenever a planning application comes up, there are always people with a local interest who say that it should not go ahead. It was described by the late Nicholas Ridley as the NIMBY syndrome—not in my backyard. I hope to show that, although, obviously, we do not want a new quarry to open, it is not a matter just of the NIMBY syndrome. "You will by now have received my reply to your earlier letter, dated 30 August, which I trust you found helpful." "As my letter indicated, the main responsibility for this type of development rests in the first instance with the Peak District National Park Authority, as the mineral planning authority. The Secretary of State is generally very reluctant to interfere with the jurisdiction of local planning authorities and will normally only intervene if the matters concerned are of more than local importance. Whilst it is clear that the issues in this case are of considerable importance to local residents, they seem nevertheless to be essentially of local significance and the Secretary of State's intervention in this instance would therefore seem to be unwarranted." 323 "This is an extraordinary position to take. Firstly, this proposed development is in the heart of the National Park. This area attracts a vast number of tourists annually. The majority of them do not visit to see a quarry the size of Bakewell disfiguring a prominent skyline. The fact that the development is in a National Park surely lends the issue more than local significance. If it does not, the number of tourists who flood the area suggests that there might well be more than a local interest in the careful preservation of the essential character of the area." 324 "The roads being used to gain access to and from the mining site are not in good condition. Hassop Road and Froggatt Road in particular are not in any fit state for heavy vehicle use. The traffic on the A623 is already very heavy, and many fatal and near fatal accidents are occurring, particularly in Stoney Middleton and Baslow. The vehicles used for transport, particularly when empty, also constitute noise pollution and…the traffic starts before 5 am now". 325 "it is bizarre that a consent given in 1952 can rule what is done 45 years later"
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Paul Boateng) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for securing time to debate this important issue. The provision of good-quality social care in the public or the private sector is a priority for the Government. We shall take forward that agenda through the promotion of good practice and by challenging poor practice. We look to the joint reviews of the Audit Commission and the social services inspectorate to assist us in taking forward that important task. 334 335 336
Q2. [17500] Mr. Peter Atkinson : Does the Prime Minister recall writing an article that appeared in the  Evening Standard "Our expenditure plans require no additional taxation."
 Mr. Hain : The answer is yes. The developments in south-east Asia have been extremely troubling and we are taking every action that is needed.
 Mr. Hain : In 1996–97, control total expenditure within the Welsh Office's area of responsibility was £2,348 per head.
 Mr. Hain : Talking about fair comparisons, the hon. Gentleman's constituency in south-east England receives 14 per cent. more than the average GDP per head for England. In Wales, GDP is 18 per cent. less than the English average and the figure has got relatively worse over the past 20 years. Personal income is 17 per cent. lower and has got worse. Unemployment, poverty and health are all worse. In view of the shameful Tory record, the hon. Gentleman should be grovelling instead of griping.
 Mr. Hain : I very much agree with my hon. Friend. For the first time, a Welsh Assembly will be able to address the real needs of Wales—north and south, east and west; in both poor and well-off areas—to develop a coherent economic strategy for Wales. Some weeks ago, I published a document on that matter, setting out the basis for a debate so that we can progress to a high-quality, world-beating economy in Wales.
 Mr. Hain : Indeed, as the record of inward investment since the general election shows, the debate on this matter has been divorced from reality. The real competition is not internal, with the rest of Britain, but external, with the rest of Europe. I invite those critics, including Conservatives, to join the Government and the Welsh Development Agency in batting for Britain instead of seeking to promote a squabble within Britain.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Peter Hain) : Since January 1996, the Welsh Development Agency has recorded inward investment projects which promise 21,678 new jobs and 6,890 safeguarded jobs.
 Mr. Hain : The Conservatives attacked Welsh farmers year after year. They failed to deal with the BSE crisis and to provide a platform for Welsh fanning. We are dealing with the consequences of their dreadful and shameful record.
 Mr. Hain : The answer is yes, and the people of Wales—and Welsh business—agree with the Government
 344
 Mr. Hain : Much of what the hon. Gentleman said is right. That is why my right hon. Friend is meeting the farmers' leaders this afternoon to discuss their concerns and to see whether we can find a way forward.
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan : Can the Secretary of State confirm that the essential nature of the choice before him and his opposite number, the Secretary of State for Scotland, is between a high-tech, palace of technology Parliament in a brand-new building—free of VAT,
 339
 Mr. Richard Allan  (Sheffield, Hallam) : Can the right hon. Gentleman assure the House that when he makes appointments to the regional development agency boards from among the locally elected representatives, he will pay due regard to the political balance in each region, and will not just look to the majority parties, so that we do not end up with all-Labour representatives in Yorkshire and Humberside, or all-Liberal Democrats in the south-west?
 Mr.Livsey : How many representations has the Secretary of State received from the farming
 338
 Mr. Shepherd : Why, when the Cardiff electorate rejected the Welsh Office's proposals for an elected assembly, and when 75 per cent. of the Welsh electorate withheld consent to the proposals, are the Government proceeding with them? Is that not a denial of representative democracy? Why bother to have a referendum?
 Mr. Shepherd : Surely the greatest representation that the right hon. Gentleman has received in respect of such matters is the decision of 75 per cent. of the Welsh electorate who did not support the Welsh Office proposals. Would not the best solution be to consign the powers that the right hon. Gentleman wishes to use to Welsh elected Members of Parliament, who could discharge those responsibilities without any further burden being placed on the taxpayer of Wales?
 Mr. Richard Shepherd  (Aldridge-Brownhills) : I realise that the hon. Gentleman believes in high employment levels and that he holds that as a valuable and important objective of the current Government. Can he not appreciate, however, the concern of the many Conservative Members who fear the institutional arrangements that we are debating? Conservative Members have no objection to social progress as the hon. Gentleman has outlined it—the Conservative party's history is one of social progress, such as "the widow's shilling", under Chamberlain—but what will the hon. Gentleman do when there is a genuine belief that the specific route or measure being proposed by the European Union conflicts with the objectives of the Labour Government in maintaining a high employment level? What will he do if he has to deal with a law that is superior to anything that he will be able to affect through the Labour Treasury Bench? That is the conflict and the resolution that we are trying to identify. My hon. Friend the Member for West Dorset (Mr. Letwin) has implied that we could enact the social provisions domestically, so that we are not ruled or governed in circumstances in which the judgment of elected Members of Parliament is in conflict with the views of the European Union.
 Mr. Key : I am grateful for that information. Many people in the industry were not aware that the Minister had been there, and I was going to say that I know he has a tight schedule. I wanted to echo his colleagues who said that we must ensure that naval interests are not neglected. Thousands of companies which are members of the Defence Manufacturers Association and the Society of British Aerospace Companies keep hon. Members very well informed on these issues. They keep an eagle eye on what we do and say in the House, and rightly so. 281 "ludicrous over-bureaucratic requirements for end-user statements." "Subject to the usual inspection and audit, and to severe penalties, there could be a self-licensing system for some exports. A grading system could be introduced in which grade A would involve the sale of non-offensive products to non-offensive countries, such as smoke grenades to Norway, Denmark or Canada; grade B would involve offensive products to non-offensive countries, such as high explosives to NATO countries; and grade C would embrace the sale of offensive products to special countries, which would require special treatment. In none of those cases would licences be granted to prohibited countries such as Iraq or Iran."—[ Official Report 282 "procurement plans will …be considered as part of the Review, including projects already on contract."—[ Official Report 531 "we cannot realistically expect more funds for defence". 283
 Mr. Robert Key  (Salisbury) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Chorley (Mr. Hoyle) on seeking and on being successful in obtaining the debate, which is on an important sector of the British export industry. I note with care not only what he said about Royal Ordnance, but his wise words about keeping peace around the world.
 Mr. Robert Walter  (North Dorset) : On Second Reading, I made clear my opposition to the Bill for three very good reasons. One reason might be described as purely tactical: I object to the Government's failure to use the unanimity required in treaty negotiations to secure a solution to the problem of fishing quotas and the working time directive—although I suppose that the latter cause would not gain much sympathy on the other side of the Chamber.
 Mr. Walter : I shall not recite the social chapter to the Chamber this evening, although I shall allow other hon. Members to do so if they wish. At the time of the Amsterdam conference, that empty box—as the social chapter has been called—contained only two specific provisions on works councils and parental leave. My question is: for how long? 404
 Mr. Walter : I have indeed, but I do not believe that either article mentions the unemployment rates in Germany, France, Italy or the United Kingdom—which is what I was referring to.
 Mr. Robert Walter  (North Dorset) : The most important message that should go out from our
 385
 Mr. Walter : With the greatest respect, I have read the social chapter. My fear is not that the British veto might not exist in such matters but that the Government would be perfectly prepared, in their enthusiasm, to allow those costs to spread across the channel. I have heard nothing in the debate so far to suggest that Labour Members would be anything but enthusiastic about that spread of European social practice. 406
 Mr. Roger Casale  (Wimbledon) : The hon. Gentleman suggests that the Labour Government caved in on QMV, but, in certain areas, we view QMV as positive, and we positively campaigned on it. How can he say that we positively campaigned for QMV, and then, when we achieved what was our negotiating objective, say that we caved in? That is illogical.
 Mr. Casale : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for shedding some light on the general thrust of his argument. At the start of his speech, he seemed to suggest that he was against qualified majority voting in principle. He has now moved on to say that, in some areas, the national interest may be served by qualified majority voting, and that he would support it in those cases. I am confused now, however, about the argument that he seems to be making that changes to the EU's institutional arrangements have been agreed because we get some concession or trade-off in another area. The previous Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, agreed to so many changes to qualified majority voting so that we could have a single market. The changes were the means to that end.
 Mr. Roger Stott  (Wigan) : My right hon. Friend has been involved with this issue for a substantial number of years and I congratulate him on his statement. I make one small plea. If he has any influence regarding the location of the headquarters of the regional development agencies, I remind him that we have a wonderful place called Wigan, which he and the Minister for the regions have visited several times, and I would offer him an office at the end of the pier if he would consider it.
 Mr. Ron Davies : The Government of Wales Bill was published on 27 November. The Second Reading debate will take place next week and I hope that Royal Assent will be granted by the summer. 341
 Mr. Davies : Perhaps the hon. Gentlemen should discuss it with their own usual channels. It is and always has been my view that adequate time should be provided on the Floor of the House to debate, not only Second Reading, but key contentious clauses. It is also my view that many matters of detail in the legislation will be of particular concern to Welsh Members and would be best discussed in Committee. I should point out that, were the Bill to be referred to a Standing Committee of the House, inevitably Members of Parliament representing English constituencies would have to sit on that Committee, because there are no Conservatives representing Welsh constituencies.
 Mr. Davies : The handling of the Bill is a matter for the Government's business managers and I understand that the usual channels are now considering the matter.
 Mr. Ron Davies : The costs of setting up and running the Assembly are set out in the explanatory and financial memorandum to the Government of Wales Bill, which was introduced in the House on 26 November.
 Mr. Davies : I have never identified the hon. Gentleman as a particular advocate of things European before, so I take the suggestion that he is now making with a pinch of salt. Propositions in the consultative document will show that it is possible to create an Assembly with one permanent home but accessible and available to people wherever they live throughout Wales. I trust that when the document is published tomorrow the hon. Gentleman will go to the Library, get a copy and let me have his response.
 Mr. Davies : We have to listen, of course, as the hon. Gentleman will understand. Everyone understands the
 342
 Mr. Davies : Many Welsh words readily come to mind to describe Conservative Members, but I must confess that my knowledge is not sufficiently comprehensive to give the Welsh translation of Bourbon. However, I can assure my hon. Friend that his proposition, and that for Swansea, are in the consultative document which I shall publish tomorrow.
 Mr. Davies : The hon. Gentleman's comments are as offensive as they are irrelevant. In September this year, the people of Wales had the opportunity to vote on the Government's proposals. The rules for the referendum were laid down by Parliament. The people of Wales followed those rules, the referendum was won and, on that basis, the Government of Wales Bill will pass through Parliament.
 Mr. Davies : With the greatest respect to the hon. Lady, I think that she fails to understand the issues. No one has foisted an Assembly on to the people of Wales. 343
 Mr. Davies : I have already had meetings with Yuasa Battery and with representatives of my hon. Friend' s local authority. I am aware of the difficulties that the company perceives, but it is my understanding that the present development can go ahead, with the aligned road proceeding as planned.
 Mr. Davies : There is no suggestion that this Government would ever be party to such a development.
 Mr. Ron Davies : I have had no such formal discussions myself. My right hon. Friend the Deputy Prime Minister
 346
 Mr. Davies : I am afraid that the hon. Gentleman has got it wrong—75 per cent. of the people of Wales did not oppose the creation of the Assembly. If we were now to set aside those proposals, the Labour party and the Government would be breaching their election manifesto and we would be breaching the commitment given by the House when we passed the referendum Bill to introduce a Bill to provide for the democratic settlement of government in Wales. We would thus betray the people of Wales who fought and voted for a referendum on the basis of the regulations laid down by the House.
 Mr. Davies :
It is certainly the case that Ewloe was one of the locations which we considered in the initial search for a suitable location for the Welsh Assembly. I must disappoint my hon. Friend because it is not the firmest of favourites in the consultation document. I understand the concern that the people from the north of Wales have expressed, and it is my intention to make it clear in the consultation document that there will be an opportunity for the people of north Wales, in common with people throughout Wales, to have access to the Assembly.
 Mr. Davies : I have received many representations from the National Farmers Union and the Farmers Union of Wales in favour of a Welsh Assembly. I believe that they understand that, when we have our own democratic form of government in Wales, we will be able to address the problems that beset all those who live and work in the countryside. It might be of interest to the hon. Gentleman to know that I will meet representatives of both the National Farmers Union and the Farmers Union of Wales later this afternoon; I am sure that we will discuss the impact of the Assembly, among other matters.
 Mr. Davies : I am sure that my right hon. Friend and I both appreciate the delicious irony in his arguing the case for the Assembly to be located in Swansea. I was pleased to receive a letter from him in which he said that the people of Swansea wanted an Assembly—to be located in Swansea.
 Mr. Davies : As I have said publicly before, and I repeat to my hon. Friend that Cardiff has always been the obvious choice for the location of the Assembly, and city hall has always been my preferred location for it. I am determined that if we acquire city hall, it must be at the right price and not at any price. I can assure my hon. Friend that the case that he has put has been considered. Indeed, I will answer his question tomorrow when I produce the consultative document to which I have already referred.
 Mr. Davies : I really do not understand the case that the right hon. Gentleman is trying to put. I fail to see how the present Government are responsible for the sins that his Government and his party visited on Wales in the past 18 years. It is a travesty for him to talk about the time scale when he had the opportunity to preside over a change in democratic relationships not only in Wales but throughout the United Kingdom when his party enjoyed power in the House of Commons.
 Mr. Davies : I fail to see how my statement condemning the illegal actions of farmers from Wales and
 340
 Mr. Davies : I can assure the right hon. Gentleman that there is no question of such a thing happening. The financial memorandum attached to the Bill that was published last week made it absolutely clear that the Government intend to stick to the pledges given in the White Paper. There is no anxious search for an alternative location. The right hon. Gentleman will be pleased to receive tomorrow a copy of the consultation document that I intend to produce to make clear the Government's options.
 The Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Ron Davies) : I have received numerous representations in the form of letters both to myself personally and to the Welsh Office, many telephone calls to the Assembly information line and e-mails to the Assembly website. We did of course have a referendum on 18 September, and I am pleased to remind the right hon. Gentleman that the people spoke for themselves when they voted for the creation of a Welsh Assembly.
 Mr. Simon Burns  (West Chelmsford) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. With respect to your authority, which you have just mentioned, I was wondering whether you could help me with a problem I face. I fully accept
 392 Official Report Official Report.
 Mr.Stephen Pound  (Ealing, North) : I have been educated and informed this evening, but I confess to being a little confused on occasion. As the debate has veered between the philosophical and the specific, a theme seems to have emerged from the Conservative Benches: by definition, all regulatory provisions are anti-competitive and bad for business. That assertion is absolutely extraordinary and completely at odds with the proud history of the Conservative party, particularly in the 19th century, in which I am sure many Conservative Members wish they were living. The Conservative party has been proud to intervene. It has appreciated the fact that the free market has to be regulated in everyone's interests. 412
 Mr. Pound : The hon. Gentleman may be assured that eventually I will reach the very point to which he refers. I simply wanted to respond to what appeared to be, if I may be forgiven for saying so, almost inherent anti-Europeanism.
 Mr. Pound : I thank the hon. Gentleman for that information, which I will add to the small store of knowledge that I have accrued in the short time I have been in the House. I was under the impression that the work was called "The Wealth of Nations", but I understand that Adam Smith originally wrote it in Scottish so it may possibly have lost something in translation when we first read it in Fulham.
 Mr. Pound : To be aware of the history of our nation is not to be pro or anti-European but merely to be fairly well educated.
 Mr. Pound : I give way to the expert on Christmas puddings.
 Mr. Pound : We have not exercised that opt-out in discussions on the employment title and the social chapter. I have a personal view on the Schengen situation that is shared by many hon. Members on both sides of the House. As a loyal supporter of the Government, however, it would not be appropriate for me to mention that view now. [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh?"]Conservative Members cannot split Labour Members on the issue with the ease and frequency with which they split themselves.
 Mr. Pound : I should have hoped that it would be self-evident that in both this and the next century employment patterns are and will be multinational rather than merely national and that we have to view our employment and social legislative practices in the European context. I should have hoped that that was self-evident.
 Mr. Pound : I should hope that all hon. Members realise that if global competitiveness has proved one point-especially in the part of the globe that the hon. Gentleman mentioned—it is the necessity of a strong trading and economic bloc, of which Europe is the exemplar. I do not wish to go into the entire debate on economic and monetary union, although I should be happy to do so if Conservative Members so wish, but it makes sense—if for no reason other than defensiveness—for us to be part of a strong united Europe. The day of the former tiger economies—currently the stuffed pussy-cat economies—may return, and their cause may re-emerge. That is all the more reason for us to be strong in Europe and not to be where the previous Government chose to be—on the periphery.
 Mr. Pound : Mr. Lord, will you advise me on whether I am able to give way to three hon. Members at once?
 Mr. Pound : I cannot comment on what the hon. Gentleman got up to before lunch today because I was not there and I have not seen the video, but the jobs summit provides a good example of our voice being heard. The Government's input and emphasis on promoting employability and adaptability was accepted by the rest of the people at the summit. With the greatest respect, I cannot see that that degree of agreement would have been reached by any previous Government. I freely confess to a complete lack of knowledge of what the hon. Gentleman mentioned, but if he would like to give me details of his movements before lunch I will be happy to discuss them later. 415 "a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and labour markets responsive to economic change".
 Mr. Pound : I was perhaps speaking in the abstract. It was said that in Holland, I believe, one has to notify an agency if one intends to dismiss a member of staff. That is completely incorrect: one simply has to notify the employment agency that a vacancy exists. Speaking as an individual, I should be perfectly happy for a provision offering tenure at work to be implemented, but that is not what we are debating.
 Mr. Pound : I apologise for referring to the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Bercow) by his given name. I appreciate that that is not done, and I will not do it again. My hon. Friend the Member for Ilford, South (Mr. Gapes) is more than capable of speaking for himself. We have heard much about the Anglo-Saxon model, but our concern tonight—as a European country, which we are, and in Europe, where we are—should be with matters European. Whereas it might be interesting from an abstract point of debating style to compare our economy with that of the United States, that is not the business before the Committee. 414
 Mr. Pound : I thank the hon. Gentleman for that intervention, but that is not my understanding of the
 413 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Pound : I have strong admiration for the hon. Gentleman, who has been consistent in his views, which
 417
 Mr. Pound : What a pleasure it is to see the hon. Member for Aldridge-Brownhills (Mr. Shepherd).
 Mr. Pound : There is much evidence to suggest that what those using the Anglo-Saxon model might regard as excessive holiday pay, particularly in Germany, is being harmonised from within Europe. Across Europe, such forms of harmonisation are the precise results of Maastricht. I believe that workers deserve a break. Perhaps holidays do go on too long in some parts of Europe, but I will not name any specific countries.
Q8. [17506]  Mr. Dalyell : If he will hold discussions with Arab Governments, and those of the other permanent members of the Security Council, with a view to persuading the United Nations to lift sanctions on Iraq in advance of a general settlement.
 Mr. Dalyell : How can any of us justify an Anglo-American policy, because that is what it is, that results, intentionally or not, in 960,000 Iraqi malnourished children—a UNICEF figure—7,000 of whom died in October 1997? Will my right hon. Friend reflect on a view that is rather different from his own: sanctions, far from weakening the regime of Saddam Hussein, strengthen an enclosed dictatorship of that nature?
 Mr. Rowlands : Is my hon. Friend aware that one of the most important sources for inward investment has been south-east Asia? Given the economic problems arising in south-east Asia, will my right hon. and hon. Friends take time to try to safeguard the investments that are vital to jobs in all our communities?
 Sir Teddy Taylor  (Rochford and Southend, East) : It does not matter two hoots whether one is a Euro-sceptic or disillusioned. It is abundantly clear from the directive on the 48-hour week that the European Commission is prepared to bring in the social chapter by majority vote, using the health and safety provisions. Surely it is a denial of democracy to spend all this time arguing about an issue when there is nothing to decide.
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I shall make a short, simple speech—I guarantee to take no more than two minutes—and I hope that the hon. Member for Gedling (Mr. Coaker) will think about what I say. 431
 Mr. Collins : The hon. Gentleman refers to provisions in the treaty that would give the European Parliament a right of veto over the appointment of the President of the Commission. That is to transfer powers away from the Council of Ministers and therefore from national Governments. It in no way answers the point raised by my hon. Friend the Member for South-West Devon (Mr. Streeter) about transferring powers away from the Commission.
 Mr. Collins : I agree with my hon. Friend and I am grateful for the points that he makes. 459
 Mr. Collins : This group of amendments goes to the heart of the bungled negotiating tactics and the missed opportunities which the treaty represents. As we have heard so much about the allegation that it is not possible to criticise the treaty without being anti-European, let me make what I hope the Committee will regard as an unambiguously pro-European case for the amendments 458
 Mr. Collins : It happens to be the basis on which the Labour party currently runs the country, as it only secured 42 per cent. of the vote, so I hardly think that that argument advances things for the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Tim Collins  (Westmorland and Lonsdale) : The hon. Gentleman is making a strong case against the United Kingdom having an opt-opt on anything at any stage, because, he says, we should be present at the table and in a position to influence the debate. Why are the Government therefore so proud of the opt-out that the Prime Minister says that he secured—although it was secured by the previous Government—over border controls? Should we not be at the table on that matter, playing our happy part as part of the European family?
 Mr. Tim Collins  (Westmorland and Lonsdale) : Does the right hon. Gentleman accept that there is considerable sympathy and understanding for the difficulties in which he has been placed because of constantly changing scientific advice? That sympathy might be greater if he recognised that his need to follow such advice of the day was matched by his predecessors, who also followed it. 388
 Mr. Loughton : Last week, the Prime Minister invited himself and the world's press to tea with a pensioner couple to proclaim the benefit of the £20 pre-Christmas bonus. In the light of yesterday's local government spending allocation, will he tell us whether he has been invited back for tea to explain how last week's £20 gift has been more than gobbled up by the average council tax rise of £70?
 Mr. Tony Baldry  (Banbury) : The Deputy Prime Minister said that part of the reason for making these changes was to decentralise decision making, but in so far as those bodies will take any decisions, they will be undemocratic decisions because those bodies are unelected, unaccountable quangos. 368
 Mr. Tony Baldry  (Banbury) : The Minister said that he would consult. Given that the experiment involved heavy doses of heavily infected BSE material being fed to cattle and that, even in those circumstances, only cattle over 30 months were found to have very low infectivity, will he consider the suggestion made by my right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham (Mr. Hogg), that the Minister should excuse from the scheme cattle born after 1 August this year? One has to make some distinction. Will the Minister promise the House that he will consult with an open mind, because his proposals will have a devastating effect on the beef industry and the high end of the butchering market, which has done so much to help to restore confidence in beef in recent months?
 The Prime Minister : First, what the hon. Gentleman says is incorrect. Secondly, the increase in council tax was the increase envisaged by the previous Government. The Conservative Government were not giving any additional help to pensioners for fuel bills, so I bet that, if I went back to the same pensioner couple, they would say, "Thank goodness we voted Labour, not Tory."
 The Prime Minister : I simply say that we have to make a choice of priority. The money that we have put into child care and specific help for lone parents—the £200 million programme announced by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor—is, we believe, the best way to help lone parents. Many of them want the chance to get off welfare and into work. The Government are putting several hundred million pounds into the system to help them do that. We inherited a difficult situation, but we believe that we have made the right choice of priority, however difficult it is.
 The Prime Minister : In relation to my hon. Friend, the right hon. and learned Gentleman is wrong as a matter of fact. In relation to the point about £50,000 PEP holders, which of course for a couple would be £100,000, there is, as I said to the Leader of the Opposition, a choice: we can spend the same amount of tax relief as it is spent at the moment, or we can do it in a fairer way that gives millions of people who do not get the chance to save now the opportunity to do so. We have made our choice; as usual, the Opposition want to have their cake and eat it.
 The Prime Minister : I am afraid that I can give no guarantee on the latter point. The circumstances in Scotland are obviously different because there are fewer big football clubs, but— [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : I can assure my hon. Friend that I reflect very much on those matters. No one can look at what is happening in Iraq without feeling the huge weight of tragedy for those young children and for the people of Iraq who suffer. But they suffer because of Saddam Hussein; they do not suffer because of the United Nations, our American allies or ourselves. 355 356
 The Prime Minister : No is the answer to that question. Lifting sanctions cannot begin until Iraq has fully complied with the relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions.
 The Prime Minister : The case was for a simple majority in a referendum and that was achieved. On that basis, it would be perverse if we were then to say, having secured a majority in the referendum, that we were not proceeding with the elected Assembly. May I put the question the other way around? Supposing there had been a minority in favour and we had then said that we were proceeding with it, there would have been an outcry from the Conservative Benches.
 The Prime Minister : On my hon. Friend's point about imports of fuel, of course we are taking action on that. Indeed, a Bill that is going through the House will improve the situation. It is also the case that, as a result of the announcement that my hon. Friend the Minister for Science, Energy and Industry will make, some relief will be given to the industry by the moratorium on gas-fired power stations.
 The Prime Minister : Obviously we want the minimum wage to be established as soon as possible. Of course my hon. Friend is absolutely right: properly implemented, a minimum wage is a good part of a modern labour market strategy, which is why many countries that have minimum wages, such as the United States and the Netherlands, have lower unemployment than Britain.
 The Prime Minister : No, Madam Speaker.
 The Prime Minister : I should explain that the same amount of tax relief is going in under our proposals. Indeed, over time there will be more. As a result of people being able to put in cash and take it out as they want—as opposed to its being tied up at the moment for five years—many more people can benefit. Supermarkets, banks and others will offer new proposals. The right hon. Gentleman says that the limit is £50,000. I should point out, of course, that for a couple it is £50,000 each—in
 350
 The Prime Minister : That is absolute nonsense. No promise was broken. The same amount of money in tax relief is going in, but, for the first time, the 4.5 million people who have TESSAs, which have a £9,000 limit and which have to be in for five years, can now increase the amount up to £50,000. They can put in £1,000 in cash each year as they wish, and they can get it out as they wish, and the amount of tax relief is set to rise over the coming years. For the first time, middle and lower-income families have a tax-free account into which they can put money. The money can grow. This is about extending opportunities to save, not curtailing them.
 The Prime Minister : The right hon. Gentleman has just suggested that the £50,000 limit is retrospective. That is not the case. Those who have money in funds are protected right up to April 1999, when the new system will be introduced. There will actually be more money for them. 351
 The Prime Minister : First of all, let me say that no one will take lessons on broken promises from the party that said that it would never put VAT on fuel, and put it on, and introduced 22 tax rises.
 The Prime Minister (Mr. Tony Blair) : This morning, I had meetings with Cabinet colleagues and others. Later this afternoon, I shall have a meeting with the Prime Minister of Italy.
 The Prime Minister : Certainly, I can confirm that to my hon. Friend. The Goldsmith family have my deepest sympathy, and the sympathy of all in the House. They are, unfortunately, not alone in the plight that they suffer, which is why the Government are determined to take action not just in cutting the time that it takes to get persistent young offenders to court but in dealing with the fact that youngsters, sometimes under the age of 10, are out late at night with no proper parental supervision. We are determined to put an end to that, in the interests of our elderly people and safety in our communities.
 The Prime Minister : Under our proposals, an extra £1 billion is going into education—more than the hon. Lady's party sought—and an extra £350 million for community care. We are making the funding of councils
 347
 The Prime Minister : We shall make a statement later about an inquiry into BSE and the handling of that issue in the past few years. This year, with the over-30-months scheme and other measures, some £1.4 billion will be spent on providing support. The problem with asking for more money from Europe is that, as a result of the abatement scheme agreed under the previous Government—which is, on the whole, a good thing for Britain in terms of the rebate that we receive—£71 out of every £100 that we receive must come from the British Exchequer. We obviously must take account of that when making any such application.
 The Prime Minister : I understand the plight that the beef farmers face at the moment and how great a blow this must be to them. However, when we receive scientific advice and the chief medical officer makes certain recommendations, we feel obliged to follow them. We shall do everything we can to mitigate the problems that farmers face. I confirm to the right hon. Gentleman that we would expect the same conditions to apply to any beef that is imported into this country.
 The Prime Minister : That is absolute nonsense. We gave pledges on the standard and top rate of income tax, and we have kept to those pledges. We never promised—no Government could—that we would never raise council tax bills in any shape or form. The actual rise that has occurred is the increase pencilled in in the Conservative Government's spending plans.
 The Prime Minister : The answers to those questions must await the outcome of the commission, although I expect it not to take an overdue amount of time in reporting. I am very pleased that it has been set up, in fulfilment of the pledge that we gave at the election.
 The Prime Minister : We will do everything that we can to assist the coal industry. My hon. Friend is absolutely right to point out the very substantial profits of RJB Mining in the past two years. It is also the case, of course, that other British deep-mining companies have signed contracts with generators at more competitive prices. However, having said that, we are working as intensively as we can to try to ensure that the generators and RJB come together. We want to preserve as much of the deep-mined coal industry as we possibly can. This comes at a time when the National Grid and others are advising us of the dangers of relying too much on gas-fired power stations.
 The Prime Minister : The announcement that was made yesterday is good news for middle Britain. There will be 6 million extra savers as a result—6 Million people will be able to save but at present cannot. Nothing better demonstrates the difference between the two political parties than the right hon. Gentleman's party saying that the system should not be changed at all and our party saying that another 6 million people should benefit.
 Mr. Tony McNulty  (Harrow, East) : I respect the long-held and consistent views of the hon. Member for Rochford and Southend, East (Sir T. Taylor), but I cannot help thinking that the litany that he has just gone through owes much to the lack of real determination shown by the Conservative Government in defending British interests. They had 18 years to try to do something about the common agricultural policy, which most hon. Members would agree is seriously flawed, but achieved precious little. Megaphones and handbags prevailed over hanging in there and preserving British interests, and that was a real shame. 432
 Mr. McNulty : I fully accept that, Mr. Martin, and I apologise for the somewhat lengthy introduction to my comments on the amendments, which will follow on in part from my colleagues' speeches. 433 434
 Mr. Anthony D. Wright  (Great Yarmouth) : I am pleased to have secured a debate on a memorial for the far east prisoners of war. I am pleased also that my hon. Friend the Minister is here to respond to the debate. 461 462 463 "railway was built at the cost of a life for every sleeper." "What a night and what a result. I hardly know how to write. It started last night actually. Reg, poor old chap complained of feeling cold and everything he had was more or less messed and wet because he couldn't control himself. He went into a coma and rambled about eleven. We covered him and made him as comfortable as it was possible. I kept up and kept the fire at the end of the tent going to help warm us and keep the mosquitos etc away. I didn't like the look of him when I went and looked at him about 2.30 so I called the orderlies. We done our very best all night for Reg but I'm sorry to say he passed away about ten past eight this morning. It was approx. ten minutes after the check so he had to lay all day in the tent with us until after the 4 o'clock check. Just a Jap method. I'm just back from carrying him to the cemetery and it's a sort of coincidence but when passing the isolation hospital there was a service on and the hymn 'Abide with me' was just being sung. Reg had a very few personal things having sold his ring, pen, watch etc but I have his photos and a few letters which I asked permission to be allowed to keep so I may return them to his wife personally. Another man also passed away out of our party after I got back about ten minutes ago so that makes eight in all we have lost in a fortnight and now it leaves 46." 464 "What a life this is but one mustn't grumble I suppose." "Up to today there have been 573 deaths in this hospital camp. Well Ida dearest tomorrow is the one day of our lives and I only wish I could send you a little something but I'll make up for it later. It won't be long now." 465 "There'll come a Bright Day When Love and Peace will stay They will not have died in vain nor have suffered that great pain For greater Love hath no man Who died that his Brother might live."
 Mr. Coaker : Their attitude reflects one of the key features of the election and of this debate: the fact that the Conservative party represents the old values of the Britain of yesterday and the new, vibrant Government represent Britain as it is today and people's demands as we move forward. The parental leave directive is all about improving standards at work, increasing flexibility and trying to work together with the rest of Europe to solve common problems. If Conservative Members disagree with that statement, they deserved to lose the last election. Only by working together can we achieve common success and tackle common problems.
 Mr. Coaker : I do not accept that. The Government are putting forward an alternative point of view. We are talking about working together in Europe. Perhaps we will not get everything we want every time, but, by being a co-operative member of the European Community, working to achieve common goals, the impact on our country will be far greater than it would be if we tried to achieve such goals on our own.
 Mr. Coaker : I thank my hon. Friend for that intervention; his experience in such matters speaks for itself. 429
 Mr. Vernon Coaker  (Gedling) : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that we have not a central plan, but a co-ordinated strategy? We are not dictating to people, but working together to achieve common goals.
 Mr. Coaker : It is interesting to be able to participate in the debate and comment on the amendments. In all the meetings of European Committees, in European Standing Committee B, and in this Committee, we start from the premise that we have one group, the Conservative party, that is by and large Euro-sceptical, and another, the Labour party, that is not Euro-fanatical but is determined to work within the European context to try to improve matters. It is important to set out that philosophical divide, because the arguments on both sides should be seen in that context. 427
 Mr. Coaker : I appreciate the hon. Gentleman's argument, but, as has been said, the Government recognise that we operate within a global economy. If we are part of a strong Europe we will achieve more than we would if we opted to be little Englanders, working within the confines of our nation state. As part of a European block and co-operating with one another, we will achieve more than by opting for the individualistic, narrow, nationalist road which the hon. Gentleman would prefer us to follow.
 Mr. Coaker : I cannot speak for those individuals, but I am certainly not disillusioned or a starry-eyed optimist. I am a realist and, in my view, the employment prospects of our people and those across Europe will be better served by co-operating at a Europewide level rather than by taking a narrow nationalist view. 428
 Mr. Hague : We are all in favour of encouraging saving. We are not saying that the system should not be changed, but do not these proposals penalise hundreds of thousands of people who have worked hard and saved hard in good faith? Was it not a bit rich for a Minister who has £12 million in tax-free offshore trusts to introduce a new tax for people who have worked all their lives, only to build up much smaller amounts? In order to improve these proposals, will the Prime Minister reconsider? Will he order the Treasury to reconsider the £50,000 limit that the Government advocate?
 Mr. Hague : When the Paymaster General said yesterday that the well-heeled have already done very well out of tax shelters, was he referring to people who have saved more than £50,000 in their working lives, or was he simply speaking for himself?
 Mr. Hague : If the Prime Minister does not recall what the Chief Secretary said, does he recall that, during the election campaign, he himself said that the idea that he would take action against PEPs was "completely absurd"? Does he recall saying that he had no plans to increase tax at all? When he put up posters saying that, he did not put a footnote saying, "Except for people who have saved hard over recent years" or "Except for people with pension funds" or "Except for people reliant on disability benefits." He said that he had no plans to increase tax at all. Will he now review the £50,000 proposal? It is, after all, in a consultation paper; so if it is not open to review, what is the point of the consultation?
 Mr. Hague : If the Prime Minister does not think that the Chief Secretary broke promises from what he said to the  Investors' Chronicle The Observer. "We've always supported the Pep regime … We're not reviewing it at all." "It is easy to imagine Labour putting a cap of … £50,000 per person on these holdings. But Darling says he is 'not actively looking at' the question of a cap."
 Mr. Hague : If the Prime Minister is not prepared to reconsider these proposals for the hundreds of thousands of people who will be adversely affected, what will he say to the people who were told by that the Labour party would not do this? The Chief Secretary said to the  Investors' Chronicle "Labour is examining proposals to abolish personal equity plans and tax-exempt special savings accounts"
 Mr. William Thompson  (West Tyrone) : Does the right hon. Gentleman realise that he is taking fear of beef infection to an extreme? The test was carried out under extreme conditions and, despite those conditions, no animal under 30 months showed any infection. Surely that was a positive result, which confirms the existing policy. Instead of putting more pressure on our farmers, the Minister should have taken the first option suggested by SEAC—
 "to make public the research findings"—
 Mr. Griffiths : At the moment, more than half of all housing being financed by Tai Cymru—Housing in Wales—is being built on brown-field sites. Earlier this year, I asked local authorities in Wales to consider creating green belts where they had particular evidence of urban sprawl. We are doing everything possible to ensure that brown-field sites in Wales are utilised to the full.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Win Griffiths : "Planning Guidance (Wales) Planning Policy" of May 1996 stresses that full and effective use should be made of land within existing urban areas. The use of appropriate vacant land within urban areas for housing development can assist regeneration and relieve pressure for development in the countryside.
 Mr.Griffiths : As far as I know, that is the case, but I shall double check given the real concern expressed by my hon. Friend about that issue. I assure her that, even while the inquiry is going on, we are looking very carefully at all aspects of children's services. We realise that this is a serious and important problem, which has been left to lie unattended for far too long.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Win Griffiths) : In addition to work already under way involving the Adrianne Jones report, the Welsh Office and the Department of Health will be developing a full programme of policy and management changes in the context of a strategy for residential child care to ensure that children living away from home are properly safeguarded. My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Health set out the Government's initial response to Sir William Utting's report in a statement to the House on 19 November. That outlined the action that is already under way and announced our intention to consult widely and establish a ministerial task force that will prepare a full Government response.
 Mrs. Angela Browning  (Tiverton and Honiton) : Livestock farmers in my part of Devon will be hard hit
 382
4.  Mrs. Ann Winterton : What estimate he has made of the costs of the proposed Welsh Assembly. [17473]
 Mrs. Winterton : Last week, the Secretary of State described Cardiff's Labour-controlled city council as "profoundly wrong and misguided" in declining the financial package on offer to base the Welsh Assembly at Cardiff city hall. However, is it not the right hon. Gentleman himself who is profoundly wrong and misguided in creating a situation where Cardiff and Swansea are at each other's throats by foisting on the people of Wales a job-destroying and expensive bureaucracy which at least three quarters of them did not support in the recent referendum?
 Mrs. Ann Winterton  (Congleton) : Will the right hon. Gentleman accept that the success of the Scottish,
 367
 Mrs. Roche : No. I do not have much time and I am anxious to make progress. I apologise to the hon. Gentlemen. If I had time, I would take interventions. 311 The Herald "tedious scaremongering by people whose politics depend on all news being bad news." 312
 Mrs. Roche : The hon. Gentleman claims the credit for his party, as though it were all due to the Conservative Government. Does he not realise that business wanted that inward investment because of the work force? One of the reasons why investors come to the UK is because of our language and tradition. For the Conservatives to try to take credit for that is beyond belief. One of the interesting lessons of the past few months is that the Opposition have learnt nothing from their defeat.
 Mrs. Roche : Yes, of course. I hope that, as I go on, I will be able to reassure the hon. Gentleman further. With the greatest respect, his contribution was a rather sad one, which led to scaremongering and undermines the very organisation that he seeks to promote. We are in favour of Locate in Scotland and what it wants to do. Contributions such as the hon. Gentleman's do not help Locate in Scotland to deliver to its customers.
 Mrs. Roche : The hon. Gentleman asks from a sedentary position who did that. I can tell him who started the process: a Labour Government who had the imagination and the foresight to set up the programme. Not for the first time, the Labour party is showing that it is the best party for business, in contrast with the tired diatribes that we so often hear from the Opposition. Corporate Location
 Mrs. Roche : The role of Locate in Scotland is extremely important. The scaremongering that we heard is entirely inappropriate. I regard the dedication and commitment, and the track record, of Locate in Scotland as being of a very high order.
 The Minister for Small Firms, Trade and Industry (Mrs. Barbara Roche) : We have had a good and interesting debate and I am delighted to have an opportunity to respond. First, however, I pay tribute to the excellent maiden speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Eccles (Mr. Stewart). He showed that he will be an articulate representative of his constituency. He dealt with health, transport and an issue dear to my heart—the century date change problem. I am grateful for the backing that he has given Action 2000 under the chairmanship of Don Cruickshank. It may interest my hon. Friend to know that I raised the problem at the Telecommunications Council on Monday and there was great support from other member states for what the United Kingdom was doing. 309
 Mrs. Roche : We have always recognised that regional policy can play a great role. There should be a voice for the regions. That is why the Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions will produce his proposals.
 Mrs. Caroline Spelman  (Meriden) : The Minister is obviously reluctant to compensate the industry for the new costs imposed by the extra ban. Would it not have been possible to make a contingency payment for the evolving science of BSE from the £400 million underspend on agriculture, rather than letting the Chancellor have that money for use on another pledge in his green Budget?
 Mrs. Louise Ellman  (Liverpool, Riverside) : Does the Deputy Prime Minister agree that his historic announcement this afternoon is a major breakthrough for all those who are concerned about employment, training and regeneration in the English regions? Is he aware that in the north-west region his proposals will be met with great support and great acclaim? Can he explain the attitude of Conservative Members, given that those in private sector, including the business leadership team, the CBI and chambers of trade and commerce, are among the strongest supporters of regional development agencies as a means of boosting business and employment?
 Mrs. Teresa Gorman  (Billericay) : While supporting the right hon. Gentleman's concern about public health and expressing the sympathy of everyone in the House for the victims of CJD and their families, may I particularly welcome his statement that all scientific evidence must be followed up? He must be aware that SEAC has pointed out that the evidence linking the cattle feed to new-variant CJD sufferers is tenuous. 387
 Ann Clwyd : I am glad to hear that news from my hon. Friend, especially after 18 years of inaction by the previous Government on this issue. There were 12 internal inquiries in one county alone, yet no action was taken by the Welsh Office, so I am pleased to hear that such vigorous action is being taken now. Many of my constituents who were abused in north Wales have given evidence to the inquiry. The alleged abusers have been kept anonymous within the inquiry. Can my hon. Friend give an assurance that none of those people who have been named at the inquiry but whose names the public do not yet know are currently working with either children or young people?
2.  Ann Clwyd : What actions he will take to develop a child care strategy following the Utting report. [17471]
 Ms Candy Atherton  (Falmouth and Camborne) : May I also congratulate my right hon. Friend on his statement? He will know that in Cornwall the development agency is a burning issue. Will he outline for my constituents the benefits that they can look forward to through a development agency?
 Charlotte Atkins : Does my right hon. Friend agree that a sensibly set national minimum wage will encourage employers to invest in the skills of their staff, and hence help this country to compete? What time span does the Prime Minister envisage for the introduction of the national minimum wage, which is so important to my constituents in Staffordshire, Moorlands?
 Jacqui Smith  (Redditch) : An Invest in Britain Bureau survey showed that 39 per cent. of companies suggested a location in Europe or the European single market as one of their main reasons for locating in the UK. Does the hon. Gentleman therefore agree that the positive approach that the Labour Government have taken to Europe, as opposed to the very negative attitude taken by the official Opposition, will play an increasingly important role in encouraging companies to come to this country?
 Jacqui Smith  (Redditch) : I welcome the speed with which the Government have acted today in response to the SEAC evidence. However, that evidence will be greeted with concern in my constituency, especially by the family and friends of Mike Clifford, who sadly died of new-variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in June 1996. In the light of the tragedy of new-variant CJD and today's statement, is it not important for the Government to announce soon a full inquiry into the previous Government's handling of BSE and the links with new-variant CJD?
 Ms Julia Drown  (South Swindon) : This debate concerns the storage of meat and bonemeal potentially infected with BSE that the Government has to store as part of its cull of over-30-month-old cattle. That meat and bonemeal is in storage until incinerators are available or until other methods are found to dispose of the material. The matter is of interest to my constituents as a planning application has been made to store large quantities of this meat and bonemeal in Wroughton in my constituency. 314 315
 Ms Drown : That is my point exactly. I warn the Minister that the Quedgeley fiasco will be repeated in Wroughton if the current plans continue—but the situation will be even worse. Wise film producers usually decide not to make a sequel to a movie that has flopped: Quedgeley I was a disaster; Quedgeley II in Wroughton should be avoided by Government, the local authority and by the company involved. 316
 Ms Rosie Winterton  (Doncaster, Central) : Is my right hon. Friend aware that one of my constituents, Matthew Parker, died earlier this year of new-variant CJD and that his family have called for a public inquiry? One of their major concerns is that information about BSE should be made public, as my right hon. Friend has done today, and not concealed, as some Conservative Members seem to wish.
 Siobhain McDonagh : Does my right hon. Friend share the anger of my elderly constituent, Mrs. Goldsmith, whose husband is in a coma in hospital, as a result of suffering a heart attack brought on by the distress caused to him by bricks being thrown at his window by young people, some of whom were as young as nine or 10? Will my right hon. Friend take this opportunity to reaffirm to the House and to the country, as well as specifically to Mrs. Goldsmith, that his Government will do everything in their power to reduce the time that it takes to bring young and persistent offenders to justice?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : That is a matter of Government responsibility and not a matter for the Chair. The hon. Member may wish to raise the issue through the usual channels, but it is not a point of order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : The Chair is not responsible for information provided for the House. That is the responsibility of Ministers. We shall no doubt hear from the Minister in due course.
 The Chairman of Ways and Means (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : I remind the Committee that with this we are taking the following:Amendment No. 4, in page 1, line 13, after '9', insert
 '(except Article 2 paragraph 22)' 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 19)' 'other than in Article 2, paragraph 22)' Appointments to Employment Committee— '.—Pursuant to Article 2 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Paragraph 19 (Cmd. 3780, page 31), Her Majesty's Government shall make appointments to the Employment Committee in consultation with employers' and workers' organisations.'. Social Chapter: Report to Parliament— '.—Her Majesty's Government shall make a half—yearly report to Parliament on the implementation of Article 2, paragraph 22 of the Treaty setting out the United Kingdom legislation and employment implications arising from the new Employment Chapter and Social Chapter as agreed in the Amsterdam Treaty which shall be subject to resolution by each House of Parliament.'.
 Dr. John Cunningham : I have no immediate plans to visit the North Yorkshire Moors national park, although I do admire it. My hon. Friend the Parliamentary Secretary has a number of visits planned to Yorkshire and Humberside.
 Dr. Cunningham : I am well aware of the problem with the incomes of farmers in less favoured areas generally and of beef producers on the hills in particular. The hon. Gentleman makes a fair point, but total livestock subsidies to all farmers in the less favoured areas are estimated to be worth about £530 million in the coming year. I hope to make an announcement about hill livestock compensatory allowance decisions soon. He is wrong to imply that we are doing nothing about this matter. As he would expect, these matters are under active discussion with my colleagues. As for his point about agrimonetary compensation, I remind him that because of the Fontainebleau compromise negotiated by Baroness Thatcher, for every £100 that we might pay under that heading, £71 would have to come from the United Kingdom taxpayer.
 Dr. Cunningham : I agree with my hon. Friend that at the root of these problems—and the causes of the difficulties that farmers face—is the failure of existing
 472
 Dr. Cunningham : I agree with everything the right hon. Gentleman said.
 Dr. Cunningham : I agree with my hon. Friend. It is astonishing how quickly Conservative Members have flipped. Each time we come to the Chamber, they demand more and more public expenditure at the taxpayer's expense.
 Dr. Cunningham : No.
 Dr. Cunningham : As ever, the right hon. Gentleman has not only got the facts wrong, he cannot even present them coherently. He has just made, yet again—for the fifth or sixth time—a long list of demands for more and more public expenditure. The previous Government,
 473
 Dr. John Cunningham : The November Agriculture Council called upon the Commission to table early proposals for CAP reform. I will aim to make as much progress as possible on these proposals during the UK presidency of the EU.
 Dr. Cunningham : I agree with the hon. Gentleman's analysis. He is right: under the CAP as presently constituted, we spend about £30 billion a year and end up damaging the environment, threatening wildlife and infuriating farmers and consumers alike. It must be a fairly stupid policy that, at such a cost, produces such results. We are seeking dramatic reforms to the arable, beef and dairy regimes. The hon. Gentleman must know our position, because it is almost completely coincident with that of the previous Government. We must get agreement, or at least a majority, for reform among the 15 members of the Council. That will not be easy.
 Dr. Cunningham : My hon. Friend makes an important point. The Government seek and are working for a successful enlargement of the European Union into central and eastern Europe. However, unless we take action now, as the hon. Member for Blaby (Mr. Robathan) said, to change the common agricultural policy, that successful enlargement will not be possible.
 Dr. Cunningham : I certainly share the hon. Gentleman's view that collective amnesia is a dangerous form of affliction on the Conservative Benches.
 Mr. Gareth Thomas : Does my hon. Friend agree that there is very real concern, approaching despair, in many less favoured areas—particularly in Wales—and among the ranks of beef producers? Does he agree also that, although there is real and genuine concern and hardship, it is in the best interests of those farmers to works together with the Government by refusing to take part in lawless acts and by developing a long-term strategy, including reform of the common agricultural policy and the restoration of confidence in beef products? Is that not the best long-term solution?
 Mr. John M. Taylor : Can the Attorney-General seriously expect any improvement in morale in the Crown Prosecution Service until such time as its lawyers are given rights of audience in the higher courts?
 Mr. Taylor : It is about the DPP.
 Mr. Taylor : I am a Whip now.
 Dobson : I thank my hon. Friend for his comments. He draws on a vast depth of experience in those matters. I am sure that the royal commission will welcome the report of the Select Committee on Health as soon as it is available.
 The Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs (Mr. Robin Cook) : Last week, on behalf of the Government and Britain, I visited three of the larger countries in central Europe that are seeking membership of the European Union: Hungary, Czech Republic and Poland. I commend a similar experience to Conservative Members, who bring to this debate doubts about Europe, suspicion of foreigners and anxiety to have as little as possible to do with either of them. If they visit the countries that are trying to enter the EU, they will find a consensus across the major political parties, which is in no doubt about the importance of the EU and shows a determination that their country will acquire full EU membership as soon as possible. Nor do politicians alone share that ambition. The people also share that ambition. 514 [Interruption.] la Repubblica Le Monde 515
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : You lost your deposit.
 Mr. Cook : If the hon. Gentleman consults the results, he will find that we substantially increased our vote in Beckenham and reduced the Conservative majority. The magnificent response to the loss of 21,000 votes in the country by the leadership of the Conservatives was to dismiss one of the voters that they have at Westminster and to oblige the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. Temple-Morris) to cross the Floor. We are grateful for the hon. Gentleman's presence and we appreciate the generosity of spirit with which the Conservatives have lent him to us.
 Mr. Patrick Nicholls  (Teignbridge) : You are welcome to him.
 Mr. Cook : Such generosity of spirit is the hallmark of the modern Conservative party. Indeed, it has resulted in its support narrowing to the size of that of a sect, instead of a centre party, and is accurately reflected in the comments by the hon. Member for Teignbridge (Mr. Nicholls). We could probably have got by without the vote of the hon. Member for Leominster. We now have a majority of 177, but we could possibly have scraped through with the majority of 175 that we had before. However, the hon. Gentleman's dismissal has sent a signal to all the sane people in the centre of British politics—who share his moderate views on Europe and know that Britain must have sensible relations with its neighbours—that they are not welcome in the Tory party, as the hon. Member for Teignbridge made clear a moment ago. I offer those moderate people a message today—they are all welcome as supporters of new Labour and we invite them to support us in building a modern Britain and a people's Europe. 516
 Dr. Liam Fox  (Woodspring) : Why do the five criteria that the Chancellor is using not include the vital criterion of the currency of denomination of trade? Is that unimportant? I should have thought that the currency in which we trade is a vital element in making objective decisions on economic and monetary union. The currency in which we trade is as important as whom we trade with.
 Mr. Cook : The hon. Gentleman has a perfectly fair point, but it is adequately covered by our five points, particularly the test of whether the single currency will offer sufficient flexibility. If he looks at trade, he will see that the fact is that the majority of our visible trade goes to Europe.
 Dr. Fox : Yes, visible trade.
 Mr. Cook : We have been here before. If we include invisible trade, visible trade still accounts for 47 per cent.—not a pass mark, I grant you—of our trade. For the Conservatives to pretend that 47 per cent. of trade is meaningless and can be passed over demonstrates the extent to which they are out of touch with reality.
 Mr. Christopher Gill  (Ludlow) : Before the Foreign Secretary leaves his five tests—one of which is the effect of the single currency on unemployment—will he remind all his right hon. and hon. Friends of the effect on unemployment of fixed exchange rates in the past? Will he tell his supporters in the country that, when we joined the exchange rate mechanism in 1990, unemployment was at 1·67 million and rose to 2·85 million within 23 months? 517
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. Interventions must be brief, and not speeches.
 Mr. Cook : Mr. Deputy Speaker, I would have been quite happy to let the hon. Member for Ludlow (Mr. Gill) continue, because he was referring to two miserable and unhappy experiences of two miserable and unhappy Conservative Governments, neither of which has any bearing on anything done by the present Government. Nor does a fixed exchange rate have anything to do with what one does within a single currency.
 Mr. Gill : The right hon. Gentleman does not understand what he is doing.
 Mr. Cook : I fully understand—the great shame is that the Government of whom the hon. Gentleman was a member did not understand what they were doing.
 Mr. Peter L. Pike  (Burnley) : My right hon. Friend has talked about enlargement and the countries that are on the so-called fast track. Does he recognise that countries such as Romania are anxious—and have overwhelming public support—to get into the strong European Union to which he referred as soon as possible?
 Mr. Cook : I very much understand that. We must be sensitive and recognise the strong ambitions in those countries not yet identified by the Commission as yet ready for negotiation. I am strongly of the view that the way forward towards enlargement is to commence detailed negotiations with those five central and eastern European countries, plus Cyprus, that have been identified by the Commission as ready for negotiation. Any other course would not be fair to those identified as ready for negotiation, as they would need to wait for others to catch up—a point strongly made to me when I visited the countries. Nor would it be fair to those countries that have been identified as not ready for negotiation, because membership of the EU will be a challenging and tough discipline. 518
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : The Foreign Secretary said that the European Union had to be inclusive. Will he say a few words about Cyprus, which is divided? I understand that that may not be a barrier to Cyprus entering the EU. If that is the case, what will be done to ensure that the population of the northern part of Cyprus will be consulted about joining the EU?
 Mr. Cook : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for raising an important part of the enlargement debate. The Government strongly support the right of the Government of Cyprus to apply for membership. We recognise that Cyprus has done a large amount over the past three years to prepare itself for membership. Were it not for the division of the island, Cyprus would be a foremost candidate for membership. It would be immensely helpful to the debate if that division could be resolved within the context of the enlargement talks.
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : Will the right hon. Gentleman confirm that, if this country enters the single currency at some point, its democratically elected Government would be legally prohibited from making
 519
 Mr. Cook : I am not sure how that naturally arose from the discussion of Cyprus, but of course the principle established in the Maastricht treaty is that the central bank will be independent and will not be subject to political interference. In that regard, it will stand in relation to the Governments of the European Union in precisely the same way that the independent central banks of Germany and of other countries stand in relation to their Governments. Daily Express 520 Daily Express
 Mr. David Heath  (Somerton and Frome) : The Foreign Secretary knows that he has our full support with regard to several of the policies that he is pursuing. One of those is to establish the European code of conduct on the export of arms. Is he making substantial progress on that matter, particularly in discussions with the French? Does he agree that we cannot travel at the speed of the slowest member state? We need firm criteria and firm treaty obligations at the earliest possible opportunity.
 Mr. Cook : The great majority of EU member states have spontaneously expressed interest in our code of conduct and are pressing us to bring forward our proposals. If possible, we should like to ensure that we have a common text with our French colleagues before we go before the EU because we are the two largest arms-producing and exporting nations, but I assure the hon. Gentleman that, during our presidency, that will definitely be taken before the Council and will undoubtedly have overwhelming backing. 521 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Michael Howard  (Folkestone and Hythe) : Despite the opening and the peroration of the Foreign Secretary's speech, there was much in between with which we Opposition Members could agree. In particular, we agree that foreign policy ought to have an ethical dimension. The foreign policy of this country has had an ethical dimension under Governments of both political parties—not simply the previous Government, but other Governments too. The trouble with the Foreign Secretary's approach is that he does his case no good by misrepresenting the past and making false claims on behalf of the present Government. 523 "We have the power within the treaty to go into any of these areas"— "if we want to. If we do not want to, we need not, but if we do, no other country can block us going in."— [Official Report, "our understanding of the discussions did not entirely tally with that of the Presidency." "our satisfaction with the note keeping of the Presidency was not as much as we would have wished it to be and there are different recollections as to what was actually said".
 Mr. Robert Jackson  (Wantage) : Will my right hon. and learned Friend give way?
 Mr. Howard : If my hon. Friend will forgive me, I want to develop my argument before giving way. 524 "At negotiations such as the IGC, it is not unusual for the Presidency to reach tentative understandings with a Member State on how to handle a point of key concern to them. But such understandings would normally be considered subsequently by the full meeting."— [Official Report, 122. Hansard
 Mr. Jackson : I join my right hon. and learned Friend in hoping for a full explanation of what happened. The general point of principle is that opt-outs are not always cost-free, which is something that we should bear in mind when pursuing diplomacy in Europe in future.
 Mr. Howard : Any decision involves a balance of advantage and disadvantage, and few courses of action are entirely free of disadvantage, as my hon. Friend knows. 525 "I do not believe in grand gestures. I believe in getting things done." 526 "not as much progress was made" "as there might have been".— [Official Report, "the Union should… foster closer institutional relations with the Western European Union with a view to the possibility of the integration of the WEU into the Union." "together we can face the economic challenge from both America and Asia …and act as a counterweight to the increasing power of international finance and the global activities of transnational companies". 527 528 "A European currency will lead to member nations transferring their sovereignty over financial and wage policy as well as in monetary affairs. It is an illusion to think that states can hold on to their autonomy over taxation policy."
 Mr. Robin Cook : Surely the right hon. and learned Gentleman will not move into his peroration without giving us his latest state of thinking on a referendum on the Amsterdam treaty. Will he now answer my question? Will he be recommending that his colleagues vote for new clause 47?
 Mr. Howard : I note with great interest that the Foreign Secretary did not rise to intervene in my speech when I described the shabby trick perpetrated on his Government at Amsterdam. He did not seek to challenge one detail of the recital that I set out. The referendum is the Government's problem, not ours. It is the Government who are so keen on referendums. It is the Government who are holding referendums on Scottish devolution, Welsh devolution, regional devolution and on whether there should be a mayor and an authority for London. It is the Government who are so besotted with referendums.
 Mr. Cook : The right hon. and learned Gentleman demanded a referendum as recently as October. When did he change his mind and why did he change it?
 Mr. Howard : As I have said, it is the Government who are besotted with referendums. If the Government are so keen on them, the logic of their position is that they should hold one on Amsterdam. 529
 Mr. Denzil Davies  (Llanelli) : My right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary spoke eloquently about the need to ensure the enlargement of the European Union to bring in the countries of the former Soviet Union—the colonies, as he described them. We on the Government Benches do not begrudge him his travels to those countries to ensure that the principles of democracy are well founded and well established, but I could not help thinking—a little heretically, I have to say—that if we were not, member of the European Union, what would the Foreign and Commonwealth Office do, poor thing?
 Mr. Denis MacShane  (Rotherham) : Is that all?
 Mr. Davies : My hon. Friend asks, "Is that all?" but we shall argue next week about £400 million in respect of single-parent families. He might not think that £1·8 billion or £2·5 billion is much, but compared to the £400 million they are large sums of money. Over four years, that £2·5 billion amounts to £10 billion. The Economist
 Mr. Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : It may interest the right hon. Gentleman to know that various members of European Standing Committee B asked for those figures precisely because they could not be found. The figures have not been released, despite the fact that four weeks have elapsed. I suspect that the right hon. Gentleman will agree that that suggests that the figures are rather worse.
 Mr. Davies : Perhaps my hon. Friend the Minister can supply the hon. Gentleman with the figures when he replies to the debate. 531
 Mr. Gill : The right hon. Gentleman makes a very interesting point. Should not that money be spent in accordance with the wishes of the House? The right hon. Gentleman referred to our net contribution to Europe, but surely we should concentrate on our gross contribution. That huge amount of money goes beyond these shores, and other people decide how it should be spent. That money must be raised from the British taxpayer, not just the net amount.
 Mr. Davies : I tried to find out what our gross contribution is, but I gave up, because I could not work it out, so I shall leave the point there. Perhaps the hon. Member for West Dorset, who is itching to intervene, could tell us?
 Mr. Letwin : As always, I have followed the right hon. Gentleman's remarks with great interest. Is he aware of a
 532
 Mr. Davies : Some years ago, the Treasury tried to explain to me about commitments and actual payments. In those days, the good old Treasury did not like this system. It did not like making commitments for future years: it likes to sow and reap in one year. The Treasury has been worn down, and has had to give in to this new fashion. I accept and understand the hon. Gentleman's point. 533 [Interruption.]
 Dr. Liam Fox  (Woodspring) : I think that hon. Members on both sides of the House can agree on two points. The level of debate in this country on the subject of Europe has been far too low. It has been conducted at the level of five-year-olds wearing pro-European and anti-European badges. There is far too little debate in the public domain, as reported from this House by members of the press who are again absent today. There is far too little debate about the substantive issues involved in these complex subjects. 534 535
 Mr. Bercow : Did my hon. Friend notice how the Foreign Secretary failed to respond to the point that in the United States between 1974 and 1994, some 31 million private sector jobs were created, whereas the figure in the European Union was nil? That is the comparison between the deregulated market in the United States and the over-regulated labour market in the European Union.
 Dr. Fox : My hon. Friend makes an excellent point. Perhaps I may paraphrase what he said. The real people's Europe is the one in which people are working, not the one in which politicians get to fulfil the timetables of their political dreams. What we mean by a people's Europe is one in which prosperity and economic freedom are given to the people; not a Europe in which those who lead European political parties get to follow utterly false political timetables to bolster the political esteem in which they hold themselves rather than to help their nations. 536
 Mr. Letwin : When the Foreign Secretary was speaking, there was an interesting example of precisely that problem. The Foreign Secretary systematically confused, did he not, the word "weaker" with the "word looser"? Is it not exactly part of our thesis that a looser union may be a stronger union and could be sustained?
 Dr. Fox : The final part of my hon. Friend's intervention is exactly right: sustainability is the issue. There is no point in reaching a short-term solution that will enable pro-European Governments to rush to their electorates. What matters is that over the next 20 to 100 years we can create stable institutions. Just as there must be more flexibility in the wings of an aircraft as the aircraft gets bigger, so in Europe we shall fall out of the sky by trying to achieve too much, too fast. 537 "The most recent official data on the currency of invoice of UK trade can be found in the Central Statistical Office's Business Bulletin, Issue 12/89 'Currency of Invoicing', published on the 15 December 1989. The currency of invoice of UK trade is one of many factors the Treasury considers in assessing the short-run impact of exchange rate changes on the economy."— [Official Report "Publication of regular data on currency of invoice ceased in 1988"— "the available evidence suggests that use of foreign currency is fairly stable over time."— [Official Report 625–26.]
 Mr. Gill : Would my hon. Friend be interested to know the answer that I received to a question only this week, when I asked what consideration the Treasury would give to linking sterling to the dollar? The Treasury's answer was,"None." Does that surprise my hon. Friend?
 Dr. Fox : Frankly, I am surprised at any straight answers that come out of the Treasury. On that particular answer, it does not surprise me that the Treasury should
 538
 Mr. Letwin : My hon. Friend suggests an extremely interesting line of argument. Does he agree that it could be taken one step further? It is a matter not merely of the trade weighting of our currency, which he so powerfully illustrates, but of convergence. If there is genuinely an argument for EMU in terms of economic convergence, does he agree that our convergence with the economy of the United States is at a far more advanced state of development than our convergence with the economies of continental Europe?
 Dr. Fox : I am almost tempted to go down the line of debate that my hon. Friend suggests, but as he is far more expert in it than I am, I shall not do so, and also because I do not believe that we must link our currency to anything at all. I am quite happy for our currency to remain utterly unlinked. We have done dramatically well in the past decade using sterling in the current world trading environment.
 Mr. Letwin : I am grateful to my hon. Friend; I shall not interrupt him again. I was by no means suggesting that we should link our economy to the dollar. Rather, I was using that as an illustration of his argument that EMU is a political project, not an economic one. Were it a purely economic argument, serious consideration would be given to the two possibilities. Because it is being undertaken for political reasons, only the possibility of EMU is being considered.
 Dr. Fox : There might be a point in the future at which such was the economic convergence that we would have
 539
 Mr. Peter Temple-Morris  (Leominster) : I am pleased to be called in this debate, which is particularly appropriate for me. It is a sort of maiden speech mark II and it is many years since I made my first one. It is symbolic that I should follow three of what I would term Euro-sceptical speeches, albeit of varying intensity, and I would not say that I disagree with everything that was said in them. 540 541
 Dr. Fox : The Government are preparing to enter the EMU after the next election without knowing what the risks might be. That system is unproven and there is no exit mechanism. Is that not an infinitely greater risk?
 Mr. Temple-Morris : I will deal with the Chancellor's statement later in my speech, but I agree with it. As the hon. Gentleman knows, the grounds for joining were set out very thoroughly in the statement. Any delay in the matter, which may not be in the national interest, has very little to do with the Government and virtually everything to do with the legacy that they have inherited from the previous Government.
 Mr. Robert Jackson  (Wantage) : Is there really all that much difference between the Government's position—which is to hold a referendum in perhaps five or six years, after the next general election, and to join a year or so after that—and that of the Opposition?
 Mr. Temple-Morris : There is every difference between the two positions, most especially because the Government have made a decision in favour, in principle, of a single currency. It is as simple as that. There is now—since day one after the general election—a totally different attitude in virtually every Government pronouncement on Europe, in marked contrast to the previous Government's constant hostility over things
 542 543
 Mr. David Heath  (Somerton and Frome) : It is a pleasure to speak in a debate in which most of the speeches have been constructive and lucid. After four debates on Europe in the House in one week, enthusiasm for speaking about Europe has not waned.
 The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Mr. Doug Henderson) : For some.
 Mr. Heath : Yes, for some. 544
 Mr. Robin Cook : I am here.
 Mr. Heath : I beg the right hon. Gentleman's pardon. 545
 Mr. Letwin : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that he is making a well-nigh impossible request of the type that he was earlier asking the Government to forswear? Would not the argument for a European central bank and EMU virtually collapse if the central bank were accountable to political forces in Europe and could thus distort interest rates in favour of one part of Europe or another? Is not the bank meant to be a far-seeing body entirely divorced from politics?
 Mr. Heath : It is right that the bank should be independent of political pressures, but it should also be accountable for the exercising of its functions. It should report to the European Parliament or the Council of Ministers, or both, on the exercise of those functions and on the decisions that it takes. 546 547
 Mr. Bowen Wells  (Hertford and Stortford) : We should start from what people are saying in the streets. During and after the election campaign, they said to me, "I thought we joined Europe so that we could have a trading partner and so that we could have jobs and employment." At the time, the other markets of the world were closing against British and European products. Our natural trading partner—apart from third world countries, which were closing their doors at the time—was Europe. 548
 Mr. Ken Purchase  (Wolverhampton, North-East) : What about Sweden?
 Mr. Wells : It is true that Sweden has been democratic in recent years, but it does not have a democracy of the length and type that we enjoy. Anyway, that example does not disprove what I am saying. Sweden is a proud nation with its own culture and language; it certainly does not want to be absorbed into a girdled, centralised state which is not accountable to its people. 549
 Dr. Fox : Does my hon. Friend accept that, until we have completely free fiscal transfer—free from national considerations—and the completely free movement of peoples, we shall never be able to make the case successfully for economic and monetary union?
 Mr. Wells : I fully agree with my hon. Friend. That point is what I am trying to explain to the House.
 Dr. Fox : And there was one language.
 Mr. Wells : Indeed, there was one language. The language was going to be German, but a majority of one vote made it English so we are lucky in that. The United States had a common language and people were able to move around. 550
 Mr. Robert Jackson  (Wantage) : Although what I plan to say was devised before the debate began, it follows very naturally on what my hon. Friend the Member for Hertford and Stortford (Mr. Wells) has said about the importance of the role of the nation state in Europe. "is not a state based on a European people"
 Mr. MacShane : What about a translation?
 Mr. Jackson : I have noticed that French phrases are occasionally used in the House, so perhaps German may also be permitted from time to time. I assure the hon. Gentleman that I was translating accurately. 552 553 554
 Mr.ChristopherGill (Ludlow) : I am sorry that the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. Temple-Morris), my constituency neighbour, is not in his place, because one of life's ironies is that I take such an interest in European affairs because, 10 years ago, he recruited me to the Conservative Back-Bench European affairs committee. The more I saw, studied and analysed what went on in Europe, the more I concluded that European union, by which I mean economic and political union, was not in the United Kingdom's best interests. 555 556 557
 Mr. Oliver Letwin (West Dorset) : I share many of the views that my hon. Friend the Member for Ludlow (Mr. Gill) expressed. The democratic deficit is perhaps more structural—because of the wide diversity of culture and the distance of the population in the centre of Government—than my hon. Friend the Member for Wantage (Mr. Jackson), in a characteristically intelligent and illuminating speech, allowed, but it is not to that, or to any of the important matters in the Amsterdam treaty and in the many directives that we have considered in European Standing Committees, that I wish to allude today. We have ample opportunity to consider those matters in other places and at other times. I should like to sketch a matter that is of moment to the House, if not to the European Union as a whole: the attitude of Her Majesty's Government, as illustrated by their attitude to the Amsterdam treaty and to directives that have been considered by the House recently. 558 "The Community shall contribute to a high level of employment by encouraging cooperation between Member States and by supporting and, if necessary, complementing their action." 559
 Mr. Gary Streeter (South-West Devon) : This has been yet another excellent debate on Europe, with many telling contributions from hon. Members on both sides of the House. In his opening speech, the Foreign Secretary was, as usual, clever and witty, but had nothing to say. This is a Government without value, without substance and without principle. Above all the rest of the Cabinet, the Foreign Secretary is, perhaps, the very symbol of that. He spends his time attacking the Opposition. That may be good sport, but his technique was simply a ploy to hide his lack of policy. 561
 Mr. Streeter : The Minister nods. That is the first response that I have had from him all week, so I am encouraged. 562 563
 Mr. Doug Henderson : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Howard : Ah, the Minister is rising in defence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Streeter : Let me just finish this point. The Government say that they are leading in Europe, but the other Ministers would not even give the Chancellor a seat on their Euro X Committee.
 Mr. Henderson : Is not the hon. Gentleman slightly embarrassed by raising the question of the British opt-in to Schengen? The previous Government had such a poor relationship with their European partners that they could negotiate almost nothing that was to this country's advantage, including the insertion of British border controls protection in the treaty of Amsterdam. That is what really protects British interests, and it was achieved only on the last day of the Amsterdam negotiations.
 Mr. Streeter : The Minister is doing his best to defend an indefensible position. He knows that we negotiated and agreed as early as March this year a complete opt-out from border controls. That was confirmed by many sources and well broadcast in the British press.
 Mr. David Davis (Haltemprice and Howden) : Will my hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Streeter : My hon. Friend is coming to my rescue.
 Mr. Davis : I simply want to add a few facts that the Minister can check for himself. He might care to look at the record of the meeting in Downing street attended by Prime Minister Wim Kok, in which the deal—a rather better deal than Labour arrived at—was proposed to the United Kingdom. The Minister can also check public information sources. The fact is that the deal the Labour Government came out with is worse than the one that was on the table before the negotiations on the Amsterdam treaty began.
 Mr. Streeter : The voice of authority and authenticity—game, set and match. 564
 Mr. Doug Henderson : Is the hon. Gentleman aware that my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary has already explained both to him and to his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe (Mr. Howard) that the Spanish amendment was challenged?
 Mr. Streeter : I am sorry to say this to the Minister, but frankly I do not believe him. I want the Minister to tell us tonight how we are going to get out of the difficult situation that he has got us into.
 Mr. Henderson : If memory serves, my right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary has responded—if he has not, I have—in a written answer and made it absolutely clear that the Spanish amendment was challenged. Is the hon. Gentleman aware of that?
 Mr. Streeter : The Minister is sticking to his line. The Foreign Secretary has told us on two occasions that the agreement on the voting arrangements for the opt-in on border controls happened after the end of the summit. Would the Minister care to intervene yet again to confirm that? Is that right or not? 565
 The Minister of State, Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Mr. Doug Henderson) : We have had a good debate, although the House has not been as well attended as it has been for some of the debates on European matters over four of the past six sitting days. There has been considerable passion in some of the contributions to the debate. Many have been wide-ranging, and some have concentrated more on the Luxembourg summit than others. 566 tomorrow 567
 Dr. Fox : If the Minister is correct in saying that the Government want the same conditions to apply, why did they not turn to domestic legislation rather than signing the social chapter?
 Mr. Henderson : That is old hat, because we have been through the argument before.
 Mr. Howard : There have been no answers.
 Mr. Henderson : Answers have been given. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Robert Jackson : In relation to the Schengen opt-in, serious allegations have been made about the propriety of the conduct of the Dutch presidency. Does the Minister have anything to say in its defence?
 Mr. Henderson : I thank the hon. Gentleman for raising that point. My right hon. Friend the Foreign Secretary made the position clear when he was before the Select Committee on Foreign Affairs: that Britain opposed the Spanish amendment, that there was a mix-up, that, when an attempt was made to clarify the matter, the Dutch presidency would not accept that there had been a challenge. There was no provision in the proceedings—the previous Government were involved in the same proceedings—for minutes to be taken or for a record. Therefore, it is extremely difficult to challenge what happened. Subsequently, there was a bilateral understanding between the Dutch presidency and the Spanish Government. We then secured a declaration that makes it clear that, if we wish to join any of the existing Schengen acquis, we can do so if the other countries accept that. 568
 Mr. Howard : It is important that my hon. Friend the Member for Wantage (Mr. Jackson) and the House should appreciate that these serious allegations, as my hon. Friend rightly said, against the Dutch presidency are made by the Government, not the Opposition. The Minister has told us something this evening that reverts to what the Foreign Secretary told us in oral answers to questions on 25 November, and differs from what the Minister told us in a written answer, published in the Official Report. Hansard,
 Mr. Henderson : Initially there were discussions in the margins of Amsterdam. Subsequently, when it was discovered that there was a difference of historic interpretation, an attempt was made to clarify, and a number of exchanges took place in private between the various parties contesting the text of the agreement.
 Mr. Howard rose
 Mr. Henderson : I shall give way once more, then I shall move on.
 Mr. Howard : I refer the Minister to the question that I asked him, which is in Hansard "To ask the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs…when the bilateral agreement between Spain and the Dutch presidency of the EU was concluded." "We believe that the text reflected discussions in the margins of the Amsterdam European Council on 16–17 June."—[ Official Report, 123.
 Mr. Henderson : The right hon. and learned Gentleman is thrashing this to death. It is clear from the answer that, initially, during the discussions before the completion of the Amsterdam talks, there were discussions in the margins between the Dutch presidency and the Spanish
 569
 Mr. Gill : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Henderson : No, I am not giving way. I shall continue, as I know that hon. Members are keen to conclude relatively early this evening.
 Mr. Clive Betts (Sheffield, Attercliffe) : I beg to ask leave to withdraw the motion. Motion, by leave, withdrawn.
 Dr. Cunningham : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. I share his disappointment at the World Trade Organisation's ruling against the existing banana regime, which is so important to the Windward Islands, Belize, Jamaica and other African, Caribbean and Pacific countries.
 Dr. Cunningham : Yes, and I recognise the hon. Gentleman's personal experience and expertise in these matters in the Caribbean. He is right. We have an historic obligation to these tiny countries. I cannot for the life of me see why the powerful nations of the west, with their
 471
 The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Dr. John Cunningham) : When I met the Prime Ministers of the Windward Islands recently, I gave them my assurance that I will do all in my power to ensure that we meet our historic obligations to their countries. I have told Commissioner Fischler and my colleagues on the EU Agriculture Council of my concerns and of my determination to do everything I can to secure agreement on acceptable new arrangements during the UK presidency in the first half of next year.
 Dr. Jenny Tonge  (Richmond Park) : I know that the Secretary of State is aware of the difficulties that occur between health services and social services, especially when it comes to care of the elderly. Will he give us an assurance that the commission will examine ways of forging permanent links between health services and community health services, because that is where the delay occurs?
 The Minister for the Armed Forces (Dr. John Reid) : The right hon. Member for Haltemprice and Howden (Mr. Davis) illustrated in a number of ways the wisdom that he brings to the matter—first, in his choice of subject; secondly, by his recognition at the outset that peace is the real dividend; and thirdly, by his caution to Members, including myself, not to believe what we read in the papers. That was a somewhat superfluous caution, but I agree with him. The Daily Telegraph 575 576 577 578
 Dr. Liam Fox  (Woodspring) : First, may I make it clear to the Leader of the House that, in the comments that I made yesterday, I was not referring to the usual channels. I was referring to how, as an hon. Member, I was able to read not the written answer to which she referred—I apologise for missing that—but the text of the Minister's statement, which he was due to make in the Scottish Grand Committee later that day.
 Dr. Peter Brand  (Isle of Wight) : I am sure that anyone who has had to work within the present muddle of continuing care will welcome the statement. Will the royal commission also consider day care and its quality and funding as part of the continuing care package?
 Mr. Nicholas Soames  (Mid-Sussex) : Allowing for the excellent way in which the right hon. Lady has enunciated the difficulties of BSE—anyone who has had anything to do with it will appreciate the difficulties faced by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food yesterday on receiving the Spongiform Encephalopathy Advisory Committee's advice—is it not important to have a debate in the House on the problems facing the beef industry, and on the process of decision making?
 Madam Speaker : I am not taking questions on my statement—I am simply reaffirming what I said in May. I met the two Members at their request, and it is right that I should tell the House factually about the exchanges that took place. If there are to be any changes to the Oath, that is not a matter for me. I am sure that the House has listened carefully to the right hon. Member for Chesterfield (Mr. Benn)—I certainly have.
 Madam Speaker : I wish to inform the House that I held a meeting this morning with the Members for Belfast, West (Mr. Adams) and for Mid—Ulster (Mr. McGuinness), at their request. I do not normally comment in public on meetings that I have with Members, but I think it appropriate to do so on this occasion, as the matter is of general interest to the House. The Members concerned made representations to me about the restrictions on the use of House of Commons services and facilities at Westminster that apply to Members who do not take their seats. 488
 Madam Speaker : Order. This is an administrative matter, not a point of order. Of course, I always want to be helpful to the House. We have had a good exchange on this matter, and the hon. Member might leave it at that. I shall see what I can do, without any commitment. I always seek to protect the procedures of the House and to be helpful to hon. Members.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman talks about "generally go on the board" and precisely "at 3.30 pm". What is his point of order? It is either precise or general. Which is it to be?
 Madam Speaker : Order. That is not relevant to the question, which was about birdlife on farms. We shall take the next question.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The hon. Lady should be able to put her question properly. I shall have no nonsense from male Opposition Members. Put your question properly, Ms McCafferty, and do not be intimidated.
 Judy Mallaber : I welcome the statement made yesterday by my right hon. Friend the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food that the Government are considering the case for a full inquiry into the development of BSE and its links with CJD, as requested by families such as the Warnes in my constituency whose son, Chris, tragically died a few weeks ago. Does my hon. Friend accept that that could help to restore confidence in the beef industry and in our standards of safety? Will he ask our right hon. Friend for an early statement on whether there will be an inquiry, because many families will be waiting for such a statement?
 Mr. Andrew Lansley  (South Cambridgeshire) : Does not the Secretary of State realise that his statement will be cold comfort to one of my constituents who, at the general election, was reduced to tears at the prospect of having to sell her home to pay for residential care? Does not he realise that the Prime Minister used exactly that kind of example at the general election and said that he would do something about it? A scheme based on partnership funding through insurance was available. The Secretary of State has said nothing to show why it is not necessary and desirable to proceed with exactly that kind of scheme, which would provide assets for long-term care and give hope to people in that situation. He took seven months to initiate the commission and is allowing 12 months for it to sit. Heaven knows how long the Secretary of State will take to act.
5.  Mr. Robathan : If he will make statement on progress on reform of the CAP. [17669]
 Mr. Robathan : I wish the right hon. Gentleman well. Does he agree that birdlife is being damaged by the intensive practices that are encouraged by the CAP? Gentlemen farmers— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Rowe : Given the very unhappy increase in the number of juveniles appearing in rape cases, does the Attorney-General agree that protection of juveniles in court cases is essential? Will he give an assurance that the Piggott report will be implemented in full? What other steps is he taking to ensure that juveniles especially are not subjected to such horrendous experience?
2.  Mr. Ben Chapman : What actions he is taking to ensure that the terms of United Kingdom agreements with the Windward Islands regarding banana imports remain in force. [17666]
 Mr. Chapman : I thank my right hon. Friend for that reply. May I say how disappointed we are at the World Trade Organisation's decision in relation to banana producers in the Caribbean? I thank my right hon. Friend for his principled stand on the issue and urge him on in his efforts to ensure that our European partners join us in seeking a solution to the problem. What progress is my right hon. Friend making in getting backing from our European partners?
 Mr. Wells : Does the Minister realise that it was a commitment by the Labour Government of 1945 to 1951 that enabled the Windward Islands to diversify out of sugar and into bananas and that that is the historical background against which he is working? Does he also realise that only he, with his enthusiasm, drive and determination, can get a satisfactory settlement out of Europe?
 Mr. Charles Kennedy : I welcome the confirmation from No. 10 Downing street this morning that, in due course, there will be an independent inquiry into the whole tragic history of BSE. However, will the Minister acknowledge that, although we hope that that will bring clarity to bear, it is a matter of profound regret that the statement made yesterday by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food did not bring such clarity to bear on the issue with which he was dealing? That is clear from the overnight surveys conducted among the public, supermarkets and restaurants, for example. 477
 Mr. Gill : In the Minister's discussions with the industry, has he found anyone who supports the notion of reducing the minimum landing size of plaice, for example, from 27 cm to 22 cm? Given that so much of the regulation that stems from the common fisheries policy is ostensibly to do with conservation, how can the Minister justify reducing the minimum landing size to below that at which the fish could reasonably be expected to breed? What will he do about it?
 Mr. Blunt : Is the Minister aware that, when I go to my constituency tomorrow to meet representatives of the National Farmers Union—the organisation that looks after more animals than any other—I shall take a copy of today's Hansard
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : Was not option 1 the easy option—the option that the Conservatives adopted over the past 10 years and which created the crisis in agriculture today? Now they complain about it and demand that we spend public money on it.
 Mr. Curry : When the Minister visits North Yorkshire, will he make two very important points to farmers and consumers? First, it is undoubted that scientific research has shown that bovine spongiform encephalopathy is a much nastier disease than we first thought but, secondly, exposure to it is dropping like a stone because of the measures that have been taken. There is therefore no reason whatever why people should cease to eat beef or to regard it with suspicion.
 Mr. David Davis (Haltemprice and Howden) : John Maynard Keynes was once quoted as saying:
 "Practical men, who believe themselves to be quite exempt from any intellectual influences, are usually the slaves of some defunct economist." The Sunday Telegraph "Even if this has not been abandoned completely, it has been kicked into the long grass." Strategic Comments "The MoD and Foreign and Commonwealth Office officials agree that the Review will not recommend any significant new expenditure on…ballistic missile defence systems." 571 "planned to have a range of around 5,000 km." "the next conflict with the United States would involve weapons of mass destruction." 572 573
 Mr. Kidney : In Stafford the RSPCA does excellent work across the whole range of animal welfare including, as the Attorney-General said, the prosecution of cases of cruelty in the magistrates court. Does my right hon. and learned Friend agree that the answer to the question put by the hon. Member for Lewes (Mr. Baker) is that the Crown Prosecution Service should work closely with the RSPCA and similar organisations to ensure the prosecution of cases of cruelty?
31.  Mr. Lock : What discussions he has had with the legal profession concerning cross-examination of complainants by unrepresented defendants in rape cases; and if he will make a statement. [17697]
 Mr. Lock : I am grateful to my right hon. and learned Friend for that answer and the care that is clearly being invested in the matter. It is very important that victims in rape cases should not have to undergo torture in court a second time unless it is absolutely necessary. Does he accept that a further problem is that counsel who prosecute cases for the Crown undertake a valuable job and are, to use an analogy from the other place, very much the thin cats of the Bar? Is there any evidence that cases—especially rape cases—are being lost because fees are too low to ensure adequate representation?
 Mr. Prior : The scale of the problem facing British farming today is exceeded only by the complacency and indifference of the Government. Does the Minister accept that we have lost vital export markets and that our farmers are having to compete with heavily subsidised imports from Europe? What is he going to do about that?
10.  Mr. Prior : What assessment he has made of the impact of the strength of sterling on farm incomes. [17674]
 Mr. David Winnick  (Walsall, North) : We are to discuss the remaining stages of the Social Security Bill on Wednesday. Even at this late stage, I wonder whether my right hon. Friend will explain to Ministers how much many hon. Members hope that the Government's policy on single mothers can be changed. We do not want to be facing an undoubted dilemma. Speaking for myself, I will be faced with such a dilemma. Therefore, I trust that, even at this late stage, it will be possible for Social Security and Treasury Ministers to reconsider, and to consider the feelings of a good number of hon. Members.
 Mr. Denis MacShane  (Rotherham) : In warmly welcoming the Secretary of State's announcement and in deploring the rather churlish and mean-minded response by the official Opposition, which shows that they have learnt nothing and forgotten nothing, may I invite my right hon. Friend to ask the commission to consider that the founding premise, indeed promise, of the national health service—our insurance system of cradle-to-grave protection—has never, through its 50 years, been properly financed? In particular, the refusal of the previous Government to oblige all citizens to pay their fair share of inter-solidarity support has undermined it.
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Is my right hon. Friend aware that one of the constant problems of Members of this place is dealing with the complaints that we receive from our constituents whose relatives are residing in residential homes that are not run as well as they should be? Will my right hon. Friend give an assurance that that is a likely area to be examined, given that there is a distinction between homes that are controlled by the local authority and inspected by it and those that are controlled and inspected by the health authority, where there is no democracy?
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Is there to be a statement on the Further Education Funding Council and on certain decisions that were made before I May? It seems that many of the qualifications that were supposed to be handed out to tertiary colleges using FEFC money were taken up by a firm called Link, which was a subsidiary of CRT, which in turn is backed by the junk bond dealer Michael Milken from across the water. Under the Tories, hours were being duplicated across the country and there was fraud on a massive scale.
 Mr. Desmond Swayne  (New Forest, West) : It appears that the right hon. Lady made an illegitimate inference from the words of my hon. Friend the Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Winterton). Has she seen this morning's leader in  The Daily Telegraph [That this House, mindful of Labour's pledge not to 'permit tax reliefs to millionaires in offshore tax havens', notes that the Paymaster General is simultaneously 509 abolishing PEPs and TESSAs, and is a beneficiary of the offshore Orion Trust; and calls upon him to clarify why he sold his rights to £10 million of Trans Tec shares to Stenbell, and how much of the latter he owns, and why these shares were then passed to Orion, whether he holds any other of his 30·4 million shares in Trans Tec in offshore trusts, whether Orion was the family trust noted in Trans Tec's 1996 annual report in which he held 9·8 million shares, and who increased this holding to 12·7 million shares in September 1997, and whether Orion holds any other assets, why and when he made a personal loan of $1 million to Roll Centre Inc. before its purchase by Trans Tec and whether any similar loans are extant, whether he is still in receipt of pension certification or other emoluments for Trans Tec, what agreement was conducted with the late Robert Maxwell on the 1991 company merger with Trans Tec, and why the latter sold back his shares just before his death.]
 Mr. Morley : I am not sure what that has to do with the question. The message that the hon. Gentleman should take to the farmers is that the Government are aware of their concerns and are following the budget for farm support laid down by the previous Government.
 Mr. Morley : I can confirm that, we support the principle behind the Bill—improving welfare standards in quarantine establishments. Furthermore, we shall publish a list of the establishments that have signed up to the MAFF voluntary code.
 Mr. Morley : My colleagues and I have had a number of meetings with the major welfare organisations.
 Mr. Morley : My hon. Friend asks an important question about the decline of many formerly common farmland species. The Government are to introduce an arable stewardship pilot scheme that is designed to assist farmland bird species. We are also encouraging the pesticides forum to promote integrated crop management, which will reduce the amount of pesticides used. In addition, we are supporting a number of research and development schemes that address some of the issues behind the decline.
 Mr. Morley : Extensive measures are currently in place to protect and encourage birdlife on farms.
 Mr. Morley : I do not justify that. I spoke against it at the Council of Ministers, and submitted a reservation on the basis that the minimum landing size was too low. I argued that it sent out all the wrong signals to the fishing industry at a time when we were arguing for conservation. The logic behind the move was to match mesh size with discards so as to reduce discards, which is a sensible objective. The answer, of course, is to increase mesh sizes if we want to increase the minimum landing size. Fishermen can do that voluntarily now and I hope that more of them will follow the example of those who do, who are concentrating on quality, not quantity.
 Mr. Morley : This year's decommissioning round was a pilot scheme. It allowed for the first time the separation of track record from the value of the vessel. This was generally welcomed by the industry. There is an issue, however, about the socio-economic effects of this approach. My hon. Friend has been a leading campaigner on the issue, along with the local authority in the area she represents, and she has convinced me that it is a matter that we need to bear in mind in future to ensure that we protect the interests of fishing ports along our coasts.
 The Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mr. Elliot Morley) : I regularly meet fishing industry representatives and I last met the National Federation of Fishermen's Organisations on 19 November.
 Mr. Ernie Ross  (Dundee, West) : Further to the points raised by the right hon. Member for South-West Norfolk (Mrs. Shephard) on behalf of the hon. Member for Woodspring (Dr. Fox), will my right hon. Friend arrange for time—even Government time—to be made available for a debate on the misuse of the privilege of raising points of order, through the raising of points that the hon. Member concerned knows to be bogus?
 Mr. Dobson : All I can say is that the old people in the hon. Gentleman's area and in the rest of the country will not be impressed by a Tory party that apparently thinks that it can carry conviction when it shifts from being Genghis Khan to Mother Teresa in the space of seven months.
 Mr. Dobson : I entirely agree with my hon. Friend. I shall say no more, because I need to save my voice.
 Mr. Dobson : I can guarantee few things in this world, but I can guarantee that the royal commission will look at all the options that have been mentioned and perhaps many more. I certainly pay tribute to the quality of care and treatment that are provided for the majority of old people. Sadly, not all are in that majority. There are failings, and the present regulatory system has been quite unsatisfactory for a long time. We are sorting it out before the royal commission reports.
 Mr. Dobson : I can guarantee that it is imperative that the commission looks at all aspects of care. Most people would rather stay in their own homes, where they have lived for donkeys' years and where they feel comfortable and know the neighbours, than have to be moved out because they are no longer capable of being sustained at home. The ambition of all hon. Members is to stay in their own homes, and that is what most other people want. We must provide services to people's homes and perhaps local services that they can just about toddle out to, provided crime and disorder are not at such a level that they are frightened to do that. That is a major consideration for old people. We must improve the quality and availability of those services. I expect, but I cannot guarantee, that the royal commission will make recommendations on those lines.
 Mr. Dobson : I can give my hon. Friend the guarantee that he requires. We are determined to improve the regulation of provision for old people in residential homes, whoever provides those homes, because it is not satisfactory at the moment. I shall go further and say that, because we are dissatisfied with the treatment of some old people in general hospitals, I have asked the Health Advisory Service to produce a report on the treatment of elderly people in general hospitals. The situation is simply not satisfactory, and must be changed.
 Mr. Dobson : I agree that the situation is unsatisfactory. Beds in general hospitals are occupied by people who would be better off, safer, more secure and healthier at
 496
 Mr. Dobson : There is a great deal of truth in what my hon. Friend said.
 Mr. Dobson : I thank the hon. Gentleman for his welcome and for his very appropriate but generous comments about the members of the royal commission, who, indeed, are very distinguished. I cannot give him a guarantee that legislation will immediately follow. He is an older hand than me, and he will know that I cannot guarantee parliamentary time, but I can say that my statement was made on behalf of the whole Government, and we believe that the present situation cannot be allowed to continue for much longer.
 Mr. Dobson : I cannot guarantee what the royal commission's recommendations will be, but I can guarantee that it will examine all the options to which my hon. Friend refers.
 Mr. Dobson : I confirm that the commission will examine that issue. At the risk of falling foul of you,
 498
 Mr. Dobson : I made it clear in reply to what was purported to be the Opposition's official response to my statement that we want a well thought out, comprehensive proposal, and not merely odd bits and pieces introduced as and when. We shall produce a White Paper that will spell out our comprehensive response on certain aspects. I expect the royal commission to do a good job, and we shall carefully consider its report. We are under an obligation to do something about this problem, which has gone on for far too long. It certainly went on for a long time under the previous Government, who may have made proposals, but they never got round to doing anything about them.
 The Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Frank Dobson) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I should like to make a statement. The Economist 490
 Mr. Dobson : The chairman of the royal commission has been asked to complete the work of the commission within 12 months, and has said that he will. I have a suspicion that he will convince the other members of the
 492
 Mr. Dobson : Again—forgive me for my laryngitis or whatever it is, Madam Speaker—my hon. Friend is certainly right to say that the question that has to be addressed is how we put in place arrangements for looking after elderly people properly. I am sure that that is what everyone wants. As for the demographic time bomb, it is worth pointing out that we expect an increase in the number of the very old of about 100,000 in the next decade, whereas that number has increased by 300,000 in the past decade. Therefore, in some senses at least, if one describes the next decade as the immediate future, the pressures will be declining rather than increasing. The object must be to ensure that all those who are growing old are looked after properly whatever their incomes, wherever they live and whatever their circumstances.
 Mr. Dobson : I thank the hon. Gentleman for his general welcome. I thought that I had made it clear in my statement that, although the royal commission will focus on long-term care of the elderly, it will bear in mind the impact of any propositions that it puts forward or principles that it enunciates on other, younger people who are in need of long-term care. The commission will certainly address the needs of present pensioners and, even more certain, it will address the needs of those who, like everyone in the Chamber, have every intention of becoming a pensioner. We also want it to look at care provided either in people's homes or outside. That applies to local services that can make it possible for people to live in their own home, provided that it is just down the road and is of decent quality.
 Mr. Dobson : I can give my hon. Friend the guarantees that she requires. We have already made it clear that we intend to put in place a national setting of standards and a national enforcing of standards for domiciliary care. That will be spelled out in a White Paper, to be published next year, before the royal commission has reported.
 Mr. Dobson : I have noticed that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer has attacked pensioners by giving them extra money for this Christmas. He has attacked them also by reducing the rate of value added tax on fuel. I cannot tell the royal commission what to do, and when it reports, I have no doubt that its findings will have an impact on what the Government do. If we are really fortunate, its report may influence even the Opposition's thinking.
 Mr. Dobson : The royal commission will be putting in place, at my request, a great deal of machinery for consulting people in both the private and public sectors as well as the voluntary sector. I cannot give my hon. Friend any guarantees about putting temporary arrangements in place, because I do not know what the commission will recommend. As I have said, we believe that the present situation is so unsatisfactory that it cannot be allowed to continue for much longer.
 Mr. Dobson : I shall quote some figures. We had 18 years of the Tories doing nothing, and within seven months the Labour Government have recruited an extremely distinguished group, led by an extremely distinguished chairman, who is happy with the proposition that the work should be done within 12 months. If the work is done within 12 months, that will be 18 times better than that which the Tories did.
 Mr. Gerry Sutcliffe  (Bradford, South) : I welcome my right hon. Friend's statement. The timetable that he has set the commission is indeed tight, but is not one reason why we are having a royal commission the political dogma of the Conservatives when they were in government? They would not let local authorities keep homes that provided good accommodation and services, and they pushed everything into the private sector and caused a great deal of concern among elderly people.
32.  Mr. Gordon Prentice : What discussions he has had with the Director of Public Prosecutions in respect of bringing prosecutions for alleged perjury. [17698]
 Mr. Prentice : Why is it that journalists from The Guardian
 Mr. Gordon Prentice : Is not the Conservative party's concern about hill farm incomes rather synthetic? Only two years ago, the average net income of a hill farmer was £10,500 and at the beginning of the decade, under the Conservative Government, it was just over £8,000. Is it not a bit rich for Conservative Members to complain about hill farm incomes?
 Mr. Harry Barnes  (North-East Derbyshire) : Following your ruling, Madam Speaker, that the Oath for Members wishing to take their seats in the House can be changed only by legislative action, should we not have a debate on that? There is a precedent in the proposals of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland to change the Royal Ulster Constabulary oath from an oath of allegiance to the Crown to an affirmation to one's duty.
 Mr. Coleman : I thank my hon. Friend for his reply. Will the Government be supporting the Bill introduced by
 480
9.  Mr. Coleman : When he last met representatives of the major animal welfare organisations. [17673]
7.  Mr. Gray : What steps he is taking to support the dairy farming industry. [17671]
 Mr. Gray : Does the Minister not realise that the 250 dairy farmers in North Wiltshire are now close to desperation? Does he accept that his failure to apply for EU compensatory payments is painting the bleakest possible picture for mixed family farms in my constituency—the worst in the history of modern agriculture—and that his
 479
 Mr. Rooker : We plead guilty to choosing safest options. I do not know the specifics of the hon. Gentleman's farmers—he seems to claim ownership of them—but the fact is that dairy farming is one of the most profitable sectors of British agriculture— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Rooker : My right hon. Friend the Minister is pressing for radical reform of the dairy regime in Brussels. This will be in the long-term interests of the UK dairy industry as a whole.
 Mr. Rooker : I completely agree with my hon. Friend.
 Mr. Rooker : I will not bandy family memberships of this House with the hon. Gentleman, except to say that he does double up in a way that I cannot—
 Mr. Rooker : I have to dismiss outright the hon. Gentleman's analogy between both consultations on
 478
 Mr. Rooker : It was not cheap: the hon. Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Winterton) raised the issue himself. There are problems with fluctuations in the currency. Livestock premium payments, however, will be wholly unaffected by the 14 per cent, change in the sterling rate this year, and arable payments for 1997 will be only 3 per cent, lower than in 1996. I repeat again: dairy farming is one of the most profitable sectors in British agriculture.
 Mr. Rooker : The hon. Gentleman asked about an inquiry. I can tell him that the report this morning is clearly not true because no final decision has yet been made. When we are able to make a decision—it is being actively considered across Whitehall—about an inquiry into the BSE legacy that we inherited on 1 May, we will be at the House pretty quickly to announce it. I can give the House that promise.
 Mr. Rooker : My hon. Friend raises the issue in another way. This is a moral issue; people are dying. I know that that is dismissed by Conservative Members, but people are dying. It is incumbent on the Government to take all possible steps to find out how this came about. We hope to make an announcement shortly.
 Mr. Rooker : I whole-heartedly agree with my hon. Friend's views, and I hope that everyone outside the House will take the message. Our beef—as my right hon. Friend the Minister and others have made it absolutely clear—is safe and, we claim, the safest anywhere in Europe. There are more checks on our beef before it reaches the shop than there are anywhere else. We have no problem whatsoever about that. The beef and beef products produced by farmers in my hon. Friend's constituency are good quality meat. Farmers damage their own industry and the confidence that we are trying to rebuild in it by actions at the ports.
 Mr. Rooker : I cannot give details on that, but plenty of scientists are looking into it. There is to be a meeting shortly of independent scientists, my officials and independent assessors, who will examine a protocol to take forward a particular experiment in which it is claimed that there may be some advance warning of BSE. This is an issue about which the scientists have been arguing among themselves. I have done everything I can to facilitate progress on this matter, and as soon as we have anything to report, we will do so.
 Mr. Rooker : I respect the point made by the right hon. Gentleman. In my modest 23 years' experience in the House, no Minister would have been taken seriously if he had stood at the Dispatch Box and said that he had knowingly allowed infected material into the food chain.
 Mr. Rooker : On my hon. Friend's first point, the statement made yesterday by my right hon. Friend the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food included imported beef. It remains the case that, from 1 January next year, the decision made in the summer regarding the removal of specified risk materials by importers must apply, so that all beef sold in this country from January will be of the same high standard as beef grown in this country.
 The Minister of State, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Mr. Jeff Rooker) : We expect the Commission to present a draft proposal for the export certified herds scheme to the Standing Veterinary Committee shortly. This UK-wide scheme would operate initially only in Northern Ireland until the British computerised tracing system is fully functional.
 Mr. Rooker : Figures published earlier this week indicate that 1997 total income from farming in the United Kingdom has fallen by around 37 per cent. compared with 1996. It is exceptionally difficult to determine the extent to which that fall is due to currency factors or to predict how durable those income effects might be.
 Mr. Rooker : We are working for reform on a wide front. We are not wholly in control of the agenda. During our presidency next year, we shall push forward reform of many aspects of the common agricultural policy. The present system is unsustainable and very unfair to British agriculture. We believe that the Opposition agree with us on that.
 Mr. Paice : Contrary to what the Minister said a few moments ago, if there is an underspend on European programmes leading to an increased rebate, using the increased rebate to support agriculture will not be an increase in public expenditure. [Interruption.]
 Mr. John Austin  (Erith and Thamesmead) : Will my right hon. Friend confirm that the question to be addressed by the royal commission is not whether we can afford adequate long-term care, but how it is paid for? Does he share the view of the Select Committee on Health that we do not face a demographic time bomb that requires panic measures? Does he also share the view of that Committee that nursing care is a function of the health service and ought to be provided free, no matter what setting it is provided in?
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : I thank the Secretary of State for his statement. While he is wise not to seek to prejudge the royal commission's conclusions, will he put it on the record that the terms of reference allow a thorough study of the private insurance and personal provision options? Will he take this opportunity—one that he has not been afforded to date—to acknowledge that much of what is already provided by the public and private sectors is admirable and that those who provide it should be congratulated? Does he accept that I genuinely
 499
29.  Mr. Burnett : What discussions he has had with ministerial colleagues about the proposals to bring the justice functions of Departments which are at present separate under a single Ministry. [17694]
 Mr. Burnett : During those discussions, I hope that the right hon. and learned Gentleman will be mindful of Sir Peter Middleton's recent report on the reform of legal aid and civil justice, which says:
 "A single Government Department should be responsible for all aspects of civil justice."
3.  Mr. Greenway : If he will visit the North Yorkshire Moors national park to discuss the current state of hill farming. [17667]
 Mr. Greenway : If and when the Minister comes up to North Yorkshire, I think that he will find the farmers there more responsible, perhaps, than some of their Welsh colleagues, but every bit as angry. I have never known them so angry. Let us be clear: they are angry with him for his failure to take any action in response to the rapid decline in hill farm incomes of recent months and the fact that many farmers now face bankruptcy. It is not just about beef; lamb prices are also under pressure. I appeal to him to use the hill livestock compensatory allowances and the European monetary compensation arrangements. Frankly, if the present unprecedented crisis does not justify the use of those schemes, how bad must things get before he will act?
 Mr. John Gunnell  (Morley and Rothwell) : I thank my right hon. Friend for his statement. Is he aware of the fact that many social services departments are now under such pressure that they do not make assessments if they feel that they will be unable to meet the need? The Select Committee on Health intends to produce its report on the relationship between health and social services during the current Session. The timing of that report will ensure that it is available to the commission that he has announced. I hope that he will do his best to ensure that the commission is ready to take advantage of that thorough
 497
 Mr. John Hutton  (Barrow and Furness) : Will we have an opportunity in the near future to discuss the excellent news that after-school study clubs will be established at some of our leading football clubs? Will my right hon. Friend join me in congratulating Pele, who is arguably the finest living footballer, on his recent award of an honorary knighthood?
 Mr. John MacGregor  (South Norfolk) : Everyone recognises the importance of new policies and actions to deal with the new challenges that we face in these areas in the years ahead. However, there is often wide suspicion that setting up a royal commission is a means of procrastinating instead of introducing policies and actions. Can the Secretary of State possibly justify spending seven months setting up a royal commission and then asking it to report within 12 months? How can he possibly justify
 495
 Mr. John Maples  (Stratford-on-Avon) : This is a very serious problem; a long lead time is required to do anything through policy changes. Before the election, the Labour party was critical of the means test and of people being forced to sell their homes, but its only policy was to set up a royal commission. I am concerned about the use of a royal commission. It is usually a way of kicking things into the long grass for a long time. 491
 Mrs. Taylor : The after-school care club initiative is extremely good. There are many ways in which we can encourage children to take their studies seriously. The endorsement of such activities by someone of the Pele's stature is significant; I am sure that it will have the desired effect. I understand that Pele is visiting the House today to meet some Members; I regret that I shall not be able to be there. I will not be drawn on other footballing points on this important day in the world cup competition.
 Mrs. Taylor : On the hon. Gentleman's first point on BSE and farming, he is a very experienced Member of the House, and I think that he will have no difficulty in finding opportunities to participate in debates in which he can raise those concerns.
 Mrs. Taylor : I know full well, not least from my constituency interests, of the concerns that many people have about opencast mining. The consultation period finished at the end of October and I understand that my hon. Friend the Minister of State will make a statement on the matter early in the new year. There are opportunities to raise the issue in the near future, not least during the three-hour Adjournment debate just before the recess.
 Mrs. Taylor : I agree with the hon. Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Winterton) that there is no need to discuss those issues.
 Mr. John M. Taylor  (Solihull) : With the permission of the Leader of the House, I should like us to have a proper debate on the Crown Prosecution Service. At every Attorney-General's Question Time, we hear that there are great difficulties in the CPS. My conviction is that the
 507
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman should have taken the advice of his hon. Friend the Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Winterton.)
 Mrs. Taylor : I am pleased that a new Member has so quickly come to terms with the detail of European Standing Committee B; I recommend that to others. The only debates that have been scheduled for that Committee so far are the ones that I have announced. The debates over the next week or so are extremely important. I remind the House that European Standing Committees are open to any Member of any party.
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman doth protest too much. The simple fact is that the statement to which he referred was entirely based on the information that was available in the written answer, which was available to the public at 3.30 pm. He made a great deal of that yesterday, implying that my right hon. Friend the Minister had broken the conventions of the House. That was a serious charge, and I think that he ought to apologise for it.
 Mrs. Taylor : Again, the hon. Gentleman has used his time well to make his points. I cannot promise time for a debate. Many hon. Members on both sides and members of the Government are concerned about the total number of experiments, but it is never easy to reduce the number overnight. The hon. Gentleman has pointed to some of the facts that have led to the increase in recent years. Some progress has been made by the ban on cosmetic testing and I hope that there are other ways in which we can continue to improve animal welfare.
 Mrs. Taylor : On the first point raised by the hon. Gentleman, the vast majority of hon. Members welcomed your statement, Madam Speaker. I pointed out earlier that we have no proposals to change the legislation on oaths of allegiance. I hope that that reassures the hon. Gentleman.
 Mrs. Taylor : I do not think that that is necessary. My right hon. Friend the Minister made it clear that he would have been acting irresponsibly if he had not taken the advice that he was given yesterday. To act quickly was absolutely essential. He also had to consider the options and decide which one was most practical and which one could be easily understood and implemented. On that basis, he made the right decision, he made it quickly, and most important, he published the advice—unlike the situation under the previous Government.
 Mr. Sayeed : I am sorry that the Attorney-General is following the example of his ministerial comrades and not answering the substantive question, which was a simple one about how many cases of animal cruelty were
 483
 Mr.Quinn : Does my right hon. Friend agree—I am sure that my colleague from North Yorkshire, the hon. Member for Ryedale (Mr. Greenway) does—that the real challenges facing hill farmers lie in the future of the common agricultural policy? Farmers in my constituency, which is not many miles from that of the hon. Gentleman, are concerned that we are throwing the baby out with the bath water. I commend to my right hon. Friend an early visit to North Yorkshire, as suggested by the hon. Gentleman.
 Mr. Michael Fabricant  (Lichfield) :Concerns have already been expressed by my hon.Friends the Members for West Chelmsford (Mr. Burns) and for Macclesfield (Mr. Winterton) about the conduct of Ministers. The Leader of the House will be aware that the code of conduct was reissued in June or July this year and that it is now called the ministerial code. May we have a debate on the ministerial code? Does the right hon. Lady agree that the reputation of the House is put in doubt when Treasury Ministers have tax avoidance plans for £12 million and statements are made outside before they are made in the House? Those actions may have been taken in ignorance; perhaps such matters should be included in the code. They could well be included in the debate that I have suggested.
 Mr. Jack : Cheap.
 Mr. Jack : The Minister has just shown a "couldn't care less" attitude towards the British beef farming industry. He knows, because he and the Treasury have confirmed it to me, that Britain's Fontainebleau rebate will increase next year due to underspend on community programmes in dairy, cereals and livestock. Those are the facts. Why is the Minister not asking for this money for the beef industry now?
 Mr. Jack : Is the Minister aware that North Yorkshire hill farmers looking at cattle prices in Banbury yesterday would have realised that they had hit a 20-year low? Does he recognise that, 20 years ago, there was a Labour Government? That is why beef farmers have lost all confidence in the Minister. Will he give us his reaction to the leader article in The Daily Telegraph
 Mr. Michael Clapham  (Barnsley, West and Penistone) : My right hon. Friend will know that, some
 508
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : May I support the plea of my hon. Friend the Member for Mid-Sussex (Mr. Soames) for a debate on the BSE crisis as soon as possible? I will go further than my hon. Friend and say that there is a crisis facing United Kingdom agriculture as a whole, as every sector is depressed for the first time in living memory and farming incomes have been dramatically reduced. There is a crisis.
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : I personally, from the Conservative Benches, warmly welcome the Secretary of State's announcement. It brings the prospect of an end to the grotesquely unfair situation today, in which many elderly people who have worked hard during their lives, who have saved and been wise and thrifty, have to spend all their savings—sometimes including the asset of their own home—on paying for residential care. That is grotesquely unfair and causes a great deal of resentment.
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton : Does the Minister accept that dairy and beef farming go together and depend on each other? There are a great many dairy and beef farmers in Macclesfield and Cheshire, and my family have been involved in and associated with farming for more than 150 years. I am deeply depressed by the problems facing the industry at the moment. I am pleased that the Minister of Agriculture is on the Treasury Bench to hear me say that every sector of the UK farming industry is depressed—a phenomenon that I have never known in my 25 years in the House, and which my family have not known in their 150 years of association with farming. Will the Government do something to alleviate the plight of agriculture?
 Mr. Ainger : Both sides of the House will welcome that statement, as it clearly indicates progress towards a lifting of the beef export ban. I have two questions following my hon. Friend's answer. First, can he assure the House that the beef quality standards now enforced in Britain will be rigorously enforced on any meat imported into this country? Secondly, bearing in mind the crisis that is hitting beef producers, will he review the current compensation regime—within the cash limits that he inherited—to ensure that compensation is targeted at beef producers who are clearly suffering enormous difficulties?
6.  Mr. Ainger : What progress has been made on lifting the European ban on the export of British beef. [17670]
 Mr. Beard : Can my hon. Friend say what progress has been made in developing a means of diagnosing BSE before the symptoms become obvious?
30.  Mr. Baker : in what proportion of police investigations into alleged cases of cruelty to animals referred to it, the case was prosecuted by the Crown Prosecution Service in the last year for which figures are available. [17695]
 Mr. Baker : Does the Attorney-General recognise that the public give a high priority to cases involving animal welfare in general, and especially to cases involving cruelty to animals? I am sure that hon. Members have postbags full of letters of concern from constituents about instances of animal cruelty. Does the Attorney-General share my disappointment that so many prosecutions are left to the RSPCA? That organisation does a wonderful job, but in a sense the fact that the RSPCA rather than the police undertakes the prosecutions downgrades the seriousness of the offences in some people's eyes. Will the right hon. and learned Gentleman make it clear that he and the Government take cruelty to animals extremely seriously, that they will do all that they can to ensure that there are more prosecutions with longer sentences, and that cruelty to animals will be eliminated as far as possible?
 Mr. Norman Baker  (Lewes) : Will the Leader of the House provide time for a debate on the number and range of experiments carried out on animals? Is she aware that, according to Home Office figures, 3 million animal experiments are carried out, many of which are repetitive, unnecessary and probably unreliable? I welcome the fact that the Government have banned cosmetic testing, but that will reduce the number of experiments by only about 200, leaving a huge number.
 Mr. Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : Will the Leader of the House vouchsafe a debate on the quality and consistency of legal advice offered to the Government, especially in relation to European legislation? I understand that the reason why the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food rejected the first option under the SEAC proposals, and did not take the advice of my hon. Friend the Member for Mid-Sussex (Mr. Soames), was that he had received legal advice
 510
 Mr. Paul Tyler  (North Cornwall) : I thank the Leader of the House for acceding to some requests for minor changes in provisional business. It will help not only Liberal Democrat Members but those in other parties. Specifically, I thank her sincerely for affording two full days for the Second Reading of the Government of Wales Bill. It will be very helpful and much appreciated. 504 [That this House welcomes the confirmation of the President of the Council that the Government is actively considering the case for a judicial inquiry into the decade of mishandling of BSE; and urges its early establishment to reassure both farmers and consumers that objective lessons have been learnt from this catalogue of disaster.]
 Mr. Tyler : Does the Minister agree that whatever may be happening to the incidence of BSE, the incidence of memory loss among former Tory Ministers is quite dramatic? Does he acknowledge that within the framework of the CAP, under the previous Government and, I fear, under the present Government, competitor countries have received a great deal more assistance in dealing with the livestock sector than we have? Does he agree that a number of countries, including Ireland, are effectively subsidising their beef farmers to export their products to this country? Does he agree that other countries are taking similar steps to assist their livestock farmers in a way that our farmers are not assisted, and that in other countries hill support is much more effective than it is in this country? 475 The Western Morning News:
 Mr. Pike : What are my right hon. Friend's priorities for CAP reform in the context of eastern European nations that are on the fast track for joining the Union?
 Mr. Robin Corbett  (Birmingham, Erdington) : May I commend my right hon. Friend's statement, as will 20,000 elderly residents in my constituency? May I urge the royal commission to pay particular attention to the essential component of consulting both public and private providers of housing? Will my right hon. Friend undertake to consider transitional arrangements until any recommendations that the commission may make are put into place, which could be three or four years away?
 Mr. Simon Burns  (West Chelmsford) : May I say in passing that one of the right hon. Gentleman's political knockabout lines was extremely unfair to the dedicated civil servants in his Department? I know from first-hand experience that they have worked hard on long-term care.
 Mr. Simon Burns  (West Chelmsford) : In the light of your ruling yesterday, Madam Speaker, in answer to the point of order raised by my hon. Friend the Member for Woodspring (Dr. Fox), does the right hon. Lady recall that at 4.30 pm on Tuesday the Under-Secretary of State for Social Security, the hon. Member for Manchester, Withington (Mr. Bradley) made his statement on uprating? 506 Hansard
 Mr. Burns : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. There seems to be some discrepancy in an answer given
 512
 Mr. Burns : The point that I am trying to make, however inadequately, is that the Leader of the House said that written answers go on the board for hon. Members at 3.30 pm. They do not. They might start going on the board at 3.30 pm, but they do so throughout the afternoon and early evening—
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : As distinct from the Conservative Front-Bench spokesman, I welcome the creation of the royal commission and will not take issue with the Secretary of State today on matters that have nothing to do with his announcement. 493
 Sir Teddy Taylor  (Rochford and Southend, East) : I wish the commission well. Will the Secretary of State ask it to look urgently at the nightmare in Essex and some other places, whereby a huge amount of public money is wasted and a great deal of distress is caused within families because of people being retained in hospital beds for the simple reason that local authorities cannot afford to fund retirement homes? Will he ask the commission to look at that serious problem, which also existed under the previous Government, and, perhaps, consider whether the remedy might be to transfer the responsibility for paying for homes from local authorities to health authorities?
 Mr. Tom King : Does the Minister accept that, in his efforts to have the export ban lifted and in his consultation
 476
 Mr. Baldry : The Minister will appreciate that it is much easier for farmers to have regard to birdlife when their holdings are being run profitably. It is difficult for many beef farmers to concentrate on birdlife or anything else when they face considerable economic difficulties. That was clearly evidenced by the prices in Banbury market yesterday because they were the lowest that anyone has known for a long time. Farmers are entitled to know what help the Government intend to seek for them from the European Union.
 Mr. Tony Benn  (Chesterfield) : May I ask you a question arising from your statement, Madam Speaker? I appreciate the authority of the Chair, but I put it to you that, in May, the proceedings of the House were completely altered by your statement then, because the Member for Belfast, West (Mr. Adams) was previously a Member of Parliament under the rules which would have allowed him to take advantage of the facilities of the House.
 Mr. Tony McNulty  (Harrow, East) : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend for outlining the work of European Standing Committee B next week. Yesterday, documents on shipbuilding were listed on the Order Paper. Will that matter be debated before the recess?
 Mrs. Taylor : I am afraid that the hon. Gentleman is mistaken. Normal practice was followed. The full technical details were given in a parliamentary answer at 3.30 pm. A press notice was issued at the same time. In an effort to be helpful, my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State circulated letters to all Members at the same time, outlining the changes. I have checked that advance copies of the statement and the letter were given to the Opposition through the usual channels at 3.30 pm.
 Mrs. Taylor : Your said in your statement, Madam Speaker, that the hon. Members concerned could take up case work, that stationery would be provided for that and that they would have access to Ministers. My hon. Friend will be aware that my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister told the House on 18 June;
 "there are no plans to change the oath of allegiance."— [official Report
 Mrs. Ann Taylor : I have heard criticisms of the Crown Prosecution Service on a number of occasions. I cannot promise the specific debate that the hon. Gentleman mentions, but I know that he has been able to raise the issue several times.
 Mrs. Taylor : I am not sure that I shall be able to provide time for a debate. I think that the events were very unfortunate, although I do not know whether the hon. Member for Woodspring (Dr. Fox) knew that his point of order was bogus. However, all of us have a duty and responsibility to check with any journalists who supposedly give us facts that are not known to everyone else whether those facts are in the public domain. It is important that we try to follow procedures. Part of the problem may be that the hon. Member for Woodspring and other Conservative Members are not used to being in opposition.
 Mrs. Taylor : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his earlier remarks. I announce business provisionally in the hope that it will not be changed, but also with a willingness to listen to representations.
 Mrs. Taylor : As my hon. Friend knows—he is a regular attender in the Chamber and will have heard most of the exchanges in recent weeks—the simple fact is that we inherited a difficult situation and have had to make very difficult decisions. One thing is clear: under Conservative Governments, lone parents never had a choice, because training, child care and employment opportunities were not available. That is why the Government have set in train the mechanism to ensure that such a choice is a reality.
 Mrs. Taylor : I cannot comment because I do not know the details of the specific allegations that my hon. Friend
 505
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman raises serious matters of concern to hon. Members on both sides of the House. Earlier today we had Agriculture Question Time, and Madam Speaker rightly allowed yesterday's statement to run longer than usual because of its significance to so many people.
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I shall make a statement about the business for next week. [Lords]. Official Report. [Tuesday 9 December: European Standing Committee B—Relevant European Community document: 9984/97, Agenda 2000: Structural and Cohesion Policy. Relevant European Legislation Committee report: HC 155-vi (1997–98). 501 wednesday 10 December: European Standing Committee A—Relevant European Community document: 9984/97, Agenda 2000: Reform of the CAP. Relevant European Legislation Committee report: HC 155-vi (1997–98). European Standing Committee B—Relevant European Community document: 9984/97, Agenda 2000, New Financial Framework. Relevant European Legislation Committee report: HC 155-vi (1997–98).]
 Mrs. Taylor : I thank the right hon. Lady for the compliments at the beginning of her comments. As I said to her hon. Friend the Member for South Staffordshire (Sir P. Cormack) last week, we will try to avoid statements on Opposition days, but, as she knows from the previous Administration, sometimes situations arise in which that is unavoidable. 503
 Mrs. Gillian Shephard  (South-West Norfolk) : I thank the right hon. Lady for her statement. I also thank her for arranging that there should be no Government statement on last Monday's Opposition day. 502
 Mrs. Humble : I thank my hon. Friend for that answer. He will be aware from our recent correspondence that the Fleetwood fishermen welcome some aspects of the new decommissioning scheme but are concerned about the separation of licence and track record from the value of the boat itself, which may result in loss of quota to the port and, indeed, to the country. In his discussions with representatives of the fishing industry, has my hon. Friend had an opportunity to consider this matter?
1.  Mrs. Humble : When he last held discussions with representatives of the fishing industry. [17665]
 Ann Clwyd  (Cynon Valley) : As a member of the last royal commission to be established by a Labour Government, may I say how much I welcome the announcement of this royal commission? I particularly welcome the speed with which it is to report. The commission of which I was a member spent three years working on its report. I remember the chairman saying that it would be different from all the others because it would not gather dust. That report had the misfortune to fall on the desk of an incoming Tory Government. Does my right hon. Friend agree that, if that Government had acted on the report's recommendations, the NHS would not be in the mess that it is in today?
 Audrey Wise  (Preston) : May I, too, give a fairly cautious welcome—but a welcome nevertheless—to the setting up of the royal commission? There are some knotty problems to be sorted out and, as long as the commission's work is not distorted into deciding how to design private insurance schemes, it might well be a valuable exercise. In the meantime, does my right hon. Friend accept the principle that there should be national standard setting and registration of those who go into
 494
 Ms McCafferty : Thank you, Madam Speaker. I am not intimidated—perhaps slightly confused, but certainly not intimidated. What are the Government's further plans to protect endangered birdlife so that it can continue to be enjoyed by bird lovers not only in my constituency but throughout Britain? What measures will the Government take to encourage farmers to take up such schemes?
 Ms McCafferty : Although I congratulate the Government on their commitment to biodiversity, which is in stark contrast to the almost lack of interest shown by former Conservative Ministers, I urge my hon. Friend to take particular account of the rapid decline in certain species of bird. In particular, the skylark population has declined by 54 per cent. in the past 20 years. [Interruption.] [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
4.  Ms McCafferty : What measures he is putting in place to protect and encourage birdlife on farms. [17668]
 The Attorney-General : I will certainly put in the Library the letter from Sir kin Glidewell, which went to every senior member who had applied for one of the new posts in the CPS.
 The Attorney-General : If the hon. Gentleman tables a question on rights of audience, I will seek to answer it. Procedures laid down by the previous Administration for consultation on rights of audience, including asking the
 486
 The Attorney-General : My hon. Friend has been diligent and has tabled six questions for my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary. The matters that my hon. Friend raises are being investigated by the police and are entirely a police matter. If the time comes, the police will report to the Director of Public Prosecutions. There is no obvious reason why I should be consulted, and in this case it would be expected that I would not be consulted.
 The Attorney-General : The question is on the subject of perjury, and the hon. Gentleman raises a wider issue.
 The Attorney-General : I meet the Director of Public Prosecutions frequently to discuss matters of mutual interest. It is not my practice to disclose the subject matter of our discussions.
 The Attorney-General : I fully understand the hon. Gentleman's concern. I was engaged only a year past July in a case involving a number of juveniles in his part of the world. There is a working group which deals with vulnerable or intimidated witnesses. It has consulted far and wide and asked for comments. It is examining and calling evidence from the Law Society, the Criminal Bar Association of England and Wales, the Council of Circuit Judges, the Association of Provincial Stipendiary Magistrates and the Magistrates Association, among others. I very much hope that the report will be available before too long.
 The Attorney-General : I assure my hon. Friend that the prosecutors are certainly not fat cats. They are very hard working and are chosen exceedingly carefully to ensure that the best counsel is available; they are sympathetic, understanding and have experience of handling exceedingly difficult cases, especially when the issue of consent is raised. That is certainly my professional experience.
 The Attorney-General : This is an important issue, which is being carefully considered by the working group on vulnerable witnesses, on which my Department is represented. The group is consulting very widely with the legal profession. I personally have had discussions with counsel in the case that has recently caused such concern. One of the counsel is a chair-designate of the Bar.
 The Attorney-General : I fully share the hon. Gentleman's concern about cruelty to animals. Traditionally, the RSPCA has carried out investigations thoroughly and has prosecuted. The hon. Gentleman may have seen in The Times
 The Attorney-General : The Crown Prosecution Service does not record the number of prosecutions by offence type. The information requested can be obtained only at disproportionate cost by a survey of case files held by the Crown Prosecution Service. Most cases of this type are investigated and prosecuted by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
 The Attorney-General : I am sorry to say that the hon. Gentleman either was not listening or is hard of hearing— [Interruption.]
 The Attorney-General : I can assure my hon. Friend that the Crown Prosecution Service does so. As I said, there is a group called the wildlife law enforcement steering group, which was convened by the Department of the Environment some years ago. The Crown Prosecution Service is a member of that group, as are the Association of Chief Police Officers and the relevant statutory and voluntary agencies. I am confident that regular work has been done in the field; I rely on my professional experience as a young man.
 The Attorney-General : Sir Peter Middleton confined himself solely to civil justice. The Lord Chancellor has responsibility for procedures in civil courts and their administration, so that is a matter for his Department. Sir Peter may have been casting his mind over a wider area and may have thought of tribunals and similar matters, which are without the Lord Chancellor's Department. We have no such proposals at present.
 The Attorney-General (Mr. John Morris) : I frequently discuss with colleagues possible ways of improving efficiency in the administration of justice. The Government have no plans to create a single Ministry of justice.
 Sir Nicholas Lyell : Will the right hon. and learned Gentleman make clear what is happening in his Department, let alone any other justice Departments, in relation to the Crown Prosecution Service? Does he accept that it is in a thorough mess, following the U-turn that he announced last week on the appointment of the 42 Crown prosecutors—one for each police region? Does he accept that he was hasty in ordering the Director of Public Prosecutions to implement that at the same time as setting up Sir lain Glidewell's inquiry? He has had to back-track on the policy on Sir lain's advice. Will he clarify what is happening, when he expects action to be taken and what regard he intends to have to Sir Iain's report? Will he publish the correspondence between him, the DPP and Sir Iain, or put it in the Library?
 Sir Nicholas Lyell  (North-East Bedfordshire) : The Secretary of State is right to recognise that the way in which we are enabled to provide for ourselves in old age is one of the great challenges of our generation. Therefore, we welcome his announcement to that extent.
 Sir Patrick Cormack  (South Staffordshire) : On behalf of the official Opposition, may I say first, as the matter was raised during Question Time, that we are extremely grateful to you, Madam Speaker, for your clear, unambiguous statement earlier? That leads me to my next point. 511
 Mr. Andrew Lansley  (South Cambridgeshire) : The hon. Member for Brent, North (Mr. Gardiner) paid a warm and generous tribute to the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham (Mr. Loughton). Likewise, the hon. Gentleman has done the House a service by reminding us of the needs of children and how they are manifested. That is at the heart of the debate. 625 626 627 628 "we have been pursuing this aspiration for some little while now"— "and you are already aware of the spiralling cost of statemented provision. It is much easier said than done." 629
 Mr. Barry Gardiner  (Brent, North) : I congratulate the hon. Member for East Worthing and Shoreham (Mr. Loughton) on a very fine speech, especially as his wife is expecting to give birth. I made my own maiden speech the day after my fourth child was born, so I know what the hon. Gentleman is experiencing. I wish him and his wife well on the birth of their child. 622 "Dear Mr. Gardiner, I am writing to ask for your help in a very distressing matter regarding my son Simon who is unable to walk. You may remember meeting Simon recently"— "when you visited Kingsbury High School to take part in their assault course for charity. As the only child in a wheelchair at the school he tends to be quite noticeable. It took a lot persuasion to get Simon into Kingsbury High as there are several levels and no lifts but Simon's determination showed them that it was worth a try and he is very happy working alongside his friends. As a statemented pupil he had to have a complete reassessment of his needs before moving into secondary education and a number of things were said to be essential. Ramps, a disabled toilet and a wheelchair at each level he would need to use were all stated by the various experts who assessed him. Kingsbury High (a grant maintained school) accepted him assuming that these things would be provided by the LEA or Health Service but to date neither these nor the lap-top computer clearly identified in the statement have yet appeared. Indeed I have just been told that as Parkside Wheelchair Service has run out of money Simon cannot have a chair to replace the one which they have agreed is dangerous and too small until they have more money—next April presumably. I enclose a letter I wrote to the Service manager which explains the situation more clearly. Given your Government's proposals in the Green Paper to fully integrate pupils with disabilities like Simon's I expect that you will be horrified to hear of his predicament. I hope that I can count on your help to get this matter sorted out at the earliest opportunity because I really do fear for his safety, not because he is in the wrong school but because he has not been given the basic equipment he needs to move around." 623 624
 Mr. Dafydd Wigley  (Caernarfon) : I apologise for not being present during the earlier part of the debate. Does the Minister accept that the wide variation in the use of statementing may have a bearing on resources? Adequate resources may not be available everywhere. Will she comment on the issue that was raised in the discussion document? Is there an alternative to a statement? Is a
 634
 Mr. Wigley : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. You will be very much aware of the strong feelings that have been expressed in Wales and elsewhere this week by farmers, in particular beef farmers, because of the acute desperation of the plight that they are facing. Yesterday, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food said that there may be some rethinking of the compensation scheme. You will be aware of the meeting between the Secretary of State for Wales and agriculture representatives in Cardiff this morning. I wonder whether you have received any request for a statement to be made in the House so that farmers know before the weekend that some progress can be made. The depth of their present plight is driving some to be nearly suicidal.
 Mr. Dafydd Wigley  (Caernarfon) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Clwyd, West (Mr. Thomas) on introducing the debate. As it started a little earlier than expected, perhaps I may take a couple of minutes to make some comments in support of his speech. The argument advanced by the hon. Gentleman affects my constituency as well as his. It affects north-west Wales, the county of Gwynedd, Ynys Môn and the counties of the old area of Clwyd, and I have received representations from constituents who are extremely concerned. 642
 Mr. Wigley : Rubbish.
 Mr. Wigley : As we are putting heads on plates, will the Minister give an assurance that the Royal Mail has confirmed also that it will act within the Welsh Language Act 1993, and that it will therefore make available devices for bilingual franking?
 Mr. Wigley : I am sorry to press the Minister on this point, but this seems to be the central weakness in the consultation process—or lack thereof. No assurance has been given that bilingual franking will be possible for the whole area. If letters from throughout Cheshire and north Wales are collected in one place and there is one franking for that whole area, either there will be Welsh language franking for Cheshire—which is clearly not acceptable to the people of Cheshire—or the people of north Wales will not receive the bilingual franking that they expect. The Government must resolve that point before the Royal Mail is allowed to go ahead with centralisation.
 Mr. Don Foster  (Bath) : Like the hon. Member for Tiverton and Honiton (Mrs. Browning), I pay tribute to the Minister for arranging this debate today and, perhaps more important, for producing a Green Paper on this important issue when her Department is busy with other matters. It has introduced in a short space of time two major education Bills. That shows that the Minister, her Department and the Government generally are extremely concerned about special educational needs. "The Green Paper on SEN could be of tremendous benefit to children with autism—but only if the key elements of early intervention, teacher training and development and resources in schools are in place." 592 593 "The provision for pupils with special educational needs is very good. Staff cater extremely well for such pupils, ensure that they are integrated into school life and lessons, and help them to make satisfactory progress. Teachers generally use a range of styles and a variety of teaching methods depending on the needs and abilities of the pupils. Lively presentation and delivery was seen in English and geography lessons; in mathematics, stimulating activities are planned using devices such as pinball machines and the Morse Code." 594
 Mr. Foster : I am grateful to the Minister for taking the opportunity to make that clear. She said, rightly, that there are real concerns about the differences in the number and timing of statements in different local education authorities. If what we have heard is a clear assurance that the intention of that section of the Green Paper is to "get behind the figures"—as she put it—and to gain a better understanding of what is going on so we learn from best practice, many people will be heartened. 595 "Dear Mr. Blunkett, I am nearly 15 years old and I have cerebral palsy. I go to Lipson Community College in Plymouth, a mainstream school. In September my mum spoke to you about the Green Paper and you gave her your guarantee that your government would not diminish or remove the rights of disabled children to their legal entitlement to help that their needs call for. Now, my mum and I have read your Green Paper and we are very worried that you will break your promise… Mr. Blunkett, I am asking you to keep your promise to my mum and not take away my right or the right of any other child to be protected by having a Statement of Need and the guaranteed provision that the statement gives us."
 Mr. Foster : The Minister says from a sedentary position that it is better than nothing, and she is right. As she said, the move towards inclusion—with all the back-up, teacher training and resource support that will be needed—will cost a considerable amount. I am glad that the Government recognise that, but I hope to hear from them a real commitment to making those resources available. The children of this country deserve to have their needs met—those with special educational needs particularly deserve to have them met—but we also need resources.
 Mr. Thomas : I felt that the pressure on the Official Reporters was sufficiently severe without adding to their burdens by mentioning that extremely long place name.
 Mr. Gareth Thomas : Does my hon. Friend agree that that smacks of a rather unrealistic expectation? Given the geography of north Wales, with which he is well familiar, what does he have to say about mail delivery to rural communities? North Wales has widely scattered communities that are very far away from Chester.
 Mr. Gareth Thomas  (Clwyd, West) : I am conscious of the topicality of this motion as Christmas draws near and increasing demands are put on the employees of the Royal Mail. I must begin by paying tribute to the servants of the Royal Mail and to Post Office workers not only in my constituency but throughout north Wales and all parts of the United Kingdom. They work hard in sometimes difficult circumstances to provide what has been, on the whole, an excellent service. 639 640 "Overall, throughout the North Wales and North West Division as a whole …we confidently expect to achieve a substantial reduction in miles travelled." 641 "Technological progress has merely provided us with more efficient means of going backwards."
 Mr. James Cran  (Beverley and Holderness) : My speech will be short because, as I am the final speaker before the Minister's reply to the debate, it has all been said. I entirely agree with my hon. Friend the Member for South Cambridgeshire (Mr. Lansley) that Friday debates are undoubtedly the best informed in the House. So it has proved today. Official Report 630 "This is best achieved through good communication. There is a need to encourage easier access to LEAs to discuss concerns" 631
 Mr. John Randall  (Uxbridge) : Special educational needs is a subject of great importance in education. I welcome much in the Green Paper. Opposition Members have made it clear that when we are in agreement with the Government we will give them our support and there is much here that we can support. 601 602
 Mr. Keith Hill  (Streatham) : I warmly welcome the Green Paper on special educational needs, which is the first comprehensive review of special needs for 20 years. With special needs education now costing £2.5 billion a year—12.5 per cent. of schools' budgets—it seems sensible to look closely at how this large sum can be spent and whether it is being spent in a way that will bring greater benefits to children in need. 596 597 598 "their disruptive behaviour did not usually date from early in their school career, nor was it obviously associated with deep-seated trauma as with many of the white children." 599 600
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : I have had no indication that a statement of that nature is to be made.
 Mr. St. Aubyn : I can think of at least one school in my area that, although not threatening children's welfare, was failing them. There is concern that, rather than the school being given a chance to sort out its problems and bounce back to being a good school that fulfils an important need, the decision might come from on high that it should be closed. The Minister's comments are therefore welcome.
 Mr. St. Aubyn : Is the hon. Gentleman comfortable with clause 31 of the School Standards and Framework Bill? Why does he think it is necessary to override local decision making?
 Mr. St. Aubyn : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that some children's home environment is, sadly, so disrupted that they can learn to cope with that environment and to appreciate the need for education only by being removed from it for a few nights a week? Those schools play that vital role.
 Mr. St. Aubyn : My hon. Friend makes an important point. With the power in the new Bill to close some special schools, the Government could achieve their target without quotas, although in an equally crude fashion.
 Mr. Nick St. Aubyn  (Guildford) : I believe that the former hon. Member for Harrow, East, Mr. Dykes, was well known for being able to see the Labour party's view, and I welcome the fact that the new hon. Member for Harrow, East (Mr. McNulty) is prepared to see the Conservative party's view. I hope that he will continue to do so—believe me, there are more issues on which that may be possible. 610 "This is a crude attempt to save money at the expense of large numbers of needy children." "with the weakening or removal of the current legal framework, our situation would be hopeless." 611 "This has provided her with a secure environment with children of similar abilities and dedicated staff, which has given her confidence in her own skills…In our opinion, our daughter would not have flourished, as she has, in a mainstream school where class sizes and peer pressure would have given her such an inferiority complex, that she might never have found the confidence to live an independent life." "is about £820" "the Special Educational Needs Tribunal conducted 903 hearings". "parents' appeals were upheld, either in full or in part, in 620 cases."—[ Official Report 756.
 Mr. St. Aubyn : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for her comments. She makes it clear that, although some Labour Members have read their speeches in an almost thoughtless manner this morning, we are on the ball and determined that the real needs of children will not be overlooked by a departmental agenda that, at heart, many of us mistrust. "give a direction to the local education authority by whom the school is maintained requiring the school to be discontinued on a date specified in the direction."
 Mr. Richard Ottaway  (Croydon, South) : I am pleased to hear that the Minister's commitment to special educational needs is being developed through the Green Paper. I am also pleased at the tone of her speech. Is she as surprised as I am by the fact that Hazel Glen, a special educational needs centre for under-fives in my constituency, was unexpectedly closed at the beginning of the year, despite assurances that special education would be expanded in Croydon? Will she undertake to look at that?
 Mr. Tim Loughton  (East Worthing and Shoreham) : The hon. Gentleman is obviously not affiliated to that union.
 Mr. Loughton : Indeed, unscrupulous local education authorities may use some of the provisions in the Bill to lessen their responsibilities. The legal responsibility of LEAs to provide appropriate and necessary education for children with special needs must not be lessened as a result of the Green Paper. 620 621
 Mr. Tim Loughton  (East Worthing and Shoreham) : This is an important debate. As the hon. Member for Harrow, East (Mr. McNulty) said earlier, it is a pity that it is being held on a Friday morning. The attendance today contrasts with that last week. It is also a particular pity for me, because my wife is nine months and one day pregnant. I hope that you will forgive me, Mr. Deputy Speaker, if I do not linger for the winding-up speeches in view of the rumblings on my pager. 617 618 619
 Mr. Colman : The hon. Lady is quite right; I am now doing it. 616
 Mr. Colman : I fully accept that and I am pleased that we have returned to cross-party agreement. As I said, parents particularly wanted the change that occurred during my six years as leader of Merton council because they wanted their children to be integrated with their neighbours' children. Individual cases will have to be dealt with as the hon. Gentleman suggests, but the parents with whom I spoke in those six years much preferred to have their children back in their neighbourhood's special or mainstream school—whichever they decided.
 Mr. Colman : I shall come to that. The hon. Gentleman obviously has no experience of local education authorities. He had a distinguished career in banking. Many of the areas that he criticised are the responsibility of his local education authority and local council. I shall give good examples of how LEAs are able to deliver later. My hon. Friend the Member for Harrow, East (Mr. McNulty) spoke on that subject. 614
 Mr. Tony Colman  (Putney) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State on her speech, which covered and dealt with many of the issues that the hon. Member for Guildford (Mr. St. Aubyn) has mentioned. I do not think that he was in the Chamber for my hon. Friend's speech. I was not either, but I listened to it in my room and I was impressed. 613
 Mr. McNulty : I should declare a partial interest, in that I am a member of the National Association of Teachers in Further and Higher Education, so I am a bit higher up the teaching ladder. 608 609
 Mr. Tony McNulty  (Harrow, East) : Initially, I intended to thank both Front Benches for their broadly non-partisan approach; I am happy to extend my thanks to all three Front Benches. The subject of special educational needs is far too serious for us to get stuck in the mire of partisanship or dogma. I share the comments of my hon. Friend the Minister about the previous Government's action on special educational needs. 603 604 605 606 607 The Times Educational Supplement
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Win Griffiths) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Clwyd, West (Mr. Thomas) on securing this opportunity to debate postal services in north Wales, and the right hon. Member for Caernarfon (Mr. Wigley) on taking the opportunity to say a few
 643 644
 Mr. Griffiths : I fully appreciate the issues of geography, and realise that mail from the west and south-west of Colwyn Bay that is internal to north Wales may ultimately travel further before being delivered. I can say only—perhaps I should have heads on a plate if it does not transpire—that the Royal Mail has assured me that it will be able to provide a better service, and that there will be no need for changes in delivery or collection times.
 Mr. Griffiths : Is the right hon. Gentleman saying that, 10 years ago, transport and communication links in north
 645
 Mr. Griffiths : I have written it down for them, so it will not cause them any problems later.
 Mr. Griffiths : The Royal Mail has assured me that Welsh addresses and place names will not cause it any significant problems when processing the mail in Chester. A bilingual guide is currently available if necessary. For the future, the new technology integrated processing machines of the kind that it is planned to install at the new Chester facility can be programmed to read addresses in both Welsh and English. I am sure that my hon. Friend and the right hon. Gentleman will be gratified and relieved to hear that.
 Mr. Griffiths : I am about to turn to Welsh language issues—the right hon. Gentleman has anticipated the speech writer. 646
 Mr. Griffiths : I appreciate that that is an important point, which I shall take up with the Royal Mail. However, I do not know why the right hon. Gentleman is so confident that the people of Chester will not accept bilingual franking on their letters. That issue must be examined. I remind the right hon. Gentleman of the commitment to reflect and to respond to the particular identity of north Wales. Given the fact that the Post Office has already fully met the demands of the Welsh Language Act, we should proceed in that spirit. We have a little time to talk about those issues, and we should do so. 647 648
 Mrs. Browning : They all do it.
 Mrs. Angela Browning  (Tiverton and Honiton) : I, too, welcome the opportunity to participate in this important debate. It comes in the middle of the consultation process on special educational needs, which will conclude on 9 January. The Minister will not be surprised to learn that I have quite a few questions. If she cannot respond to them in her winding-up speech, I hope that she will be kind enough to take note of them. When the consultation concludes on 9 January, I should be grateful if she would reply specifically to the questions raised in today's debate. 587 "The present law, including statements for some children, is there to protect the interests of the vulnerable. We shall not change that." 588 "the assurance to parents that schools will offer effective and consistent support of stages 1–3" v. 589 "The number of children perceived to be falling within this group is increasing." 590 "Most parents are at best wary and at worst downright hostile to the notion that their child's statement of special educational needs should be replaced or reduced by LEA discretion. As the Green Paper states…some LEAs have sought ways of restricting the rise in the number of statements and that has undoubtedly created some 'mistrust and conflict in an area where trust and co-operation are essential.'" 591
 Mrs. Browning : Although a spirit of co-operation has prevailed during the debate, which I welcome, I assure
 612
 Ms Morris : I am happy to tell the hon. Gentleman that I shall look at that. It is difficult to comment on decisions in areas with which I am not familiar and when I do not know the background. I agree with the hon. Gentleman about the need to spot special educational needs and learning difficulties at an early age. For some children, the age of five is too late. We must do what we can to identify special learning difficulties at an early age and take immediate action to assist the children and their parents. That is important. I shall look at the issue that the hon. Gentleman raises and, if it is acceptable to him, I shall speak to the authorities in Croydon and come back to him. 583 584 585 586
 Ms Estelle Morris : Both the hon. Gentleman and the hon. Member for Tiverton and Honiton (Mrs. Browning) have referred to that paragraph. I do not wish to repeat this too many times, but their interpretation is not correct. I am grateful for the opportunity to state this now, rather than leave it for another couple of hours. We have no intention of introducing quotas. Paragraph 19 says:
 "They would therefore not operate as strict quotas".
 Ms Morris : It is better than nothing.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Ms Estelle Morris) : The House will know that, yesterday, the Government's Bill to raise standards for children in schools was given its First Reading. We view the discussion document, the Green Paper, that we have published on special educational needs as a sister document to the Bill. We are determined that, when we say that we want to raise standards for all children, we mean all children. It is important to us that the consideration of our schools' future incorporates the future of children who are thought to have SEN. I therefore welcome the opportunity to have a debate that perhaps matches the many discussions throughout the country since the Green Paper's publication. 581 582
 Ms Estelle Morris : With the leave of the House, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I should like to reply to the debate. 632
 Ms Morris : I can confirm that clause 31 covers the case I mentioned. There are other procedures after Ofsted inspections and improvement plans. As the hon. Gentleman knows, the Government favour the idea that if, at the end of the day, schools cannot give a good-quality education to children, including children with SEN, a fresh start or closure may be appropriate. None of us wants to keep open schools that are letting down children. 633
 Ms Morris : I do not answer for Wales on education, but my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State for Wales said, "No, no," as I stood up. That is not a statement on behalf of Wales—I am merely repeating the mutterings made in my ear. 635 636
 Jane Kennedy  (Liverpool, Wavertree) : I beg to ask leave to withdraw the motion.
14.  Mr. Michael Jabez Foster : What plans he has for encouraging the improvement of training and qualifications in the tourism industry. [17989]
 Mr. Foster : In constituencies such as Hastings and Rye, tourism has often been regarded as a seasonal, low-paid employment sector. What plans does my hon. Friend have to create stability in that industry?
 Mr. Gareth Thomas : Does my hon. Friend agree with the view, expressed by many with experience in this area, that removal of the complexity, delay and expense that play such a large part in the civil justice system at the moment will go a long way to restoring public confidence in the civil justice system?
 Several hon. Members   rose—
 Several hon.Members rose—
 Several hon. Members   rose—
 Dr. Iddon : I am sure that my right hon. Friend agrees that museums play a key educational role, especially for young people. Our museums in Bolton design special projects in partnership with schools. Will my right hon. Friend consider that aspect when considering the question of access, which should preferably be free for educational purposes?
 Dr. John Marek  (Wrexham) : Clause 35 refers to the staff of the Welsh Assembly and provides for them to be members of the home civil service. To whom will those civil servants owe their loyalty? It will be to the Crown, but will it be to the Crown via the assembly, via the head of the home civil service, via a Minister in Westminster or via this Parliament? I can foresee problems, so the matter requires careful consideration.
 Dr. Marek : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that the Secretary of State could go a little further and publish some of his draft proposals, so that we may comment on them? The assembly will be open and we are to have a freedom of information Act, but of course at the moment the civil service and Ministers work in the same old way as the people in the previous Tory Administration. Before my right hon. Friend chides me, perhaps I should say that it is not quite as bad as that. I am not being at all critical. There is a case for exposing such drafts of policies, and that might be a useful way to get consensus on the issue.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Dr. Lewis : May I point out to the hon. Gentleman—in my fourth intervention in the debate—the difference between a vote on an issue of immense constitutional significance and a straightforward vote in a general or any other election? The only reason why Conservative Members were not able to propose a threshold is that debate was guillotined. The Conservative party did propose a threshold in the other place.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : For the fifth time, I argue that Labour Members do not accept that, when a vote takes place on an issue changing the constitutional rules of the game, the criteria for changing those rules should be higher than a simple majority. That is a constitutional safeguard in many democracies throughout the world, and it should have been a constitutional safeguard in this case.
 Dr. Julian Lewis  (New Forest, East) : I welcome the close attention that the hon. Gentleman is giving to the narrowness of the referendum result, and the high proportion of people who did not vote. Will he address the point stressed by my right hon. Friend the Member for Devizes (Mr. Ancram)—the fact that, the day after the referendum, the Prime Minister emphasised that he recognised the concerns shown by the Welsh people, as demonstrated by the low majority for the proposals, yet there is nothing in the Bill to show that those concerns have been taken into account?
 Dr. Julian Lewis : Does the right hon. Gentleman not understand that there is great concern, that when dealing with an issue of such fundamental constitutional importance as the Bill that is before us, any mandate from the people should be large and healthy? The fact that the referendum did not get a large and healthy mandate concerned the Prime Minister when he said the day after the referendum that the Government would address the concerns that had been shown by the smallness of the mandate. However, the Bill does not address those concerns. Will the right hon. Gentleman comment on that?
 Dr. Julian Lewis : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that to oppose the creation of an assembly in principle while preparing to fight the election, given that it will happen, albeit wrongly in our view, is a consistent approach to take?
 Dr. Julian Lewis : I shall try for the third time to make the point that hon. Members in other parties are avoiding: there is a difference between an ordinary vote and a vote on a major constitutional issue. We keep hearing this fudge that concessions are being made to acknowledge the smallness of the majority, but no one has made any concession acknowledging that point.
 Dr. Liam Fox  (Woodspring) : The hon. Gentleman claims that changing the status of a building society requires an absolute majority, but changing the economic
 763
 Dr. Liam Fox  (Woodspring) : I shall begin the debate by making it clear that this is not another not-in-my-back-yard debate about quarrying. My constituency has many quarries within it and my constituents are used to the problems that are associated with quarrying. They are used to making sacrifices that they regard as part of their civic duty. They know that road building, for example, is an important part of improving the country's infrastructure. Mercury, 770 "The lane onto which the quarry fronts is narrow (too narrow for two lorries to pass) with no footpath, is part of the local cycleway and is used by horseriders. The lane itself then exits on to a 'B' road almost opposite the road serving the comprehensive school. Travelling the opposite way, the lane narrows, and lorries would either have to negotiate about four miles of narrow lane until reaching a road for Portishead, or take a left hand turn passing through another small village and emerging onto the 'B' road at a blind crossroads." "Although I have little evidence on the economic structure of the operation it seems to me that to prevent access from 1.00–2.00 may be unduly onerous. Nevertheless, I appreciate that the view could be taken that there would be unacceptable risk to school children at lunchtimes". 771 "I consider it unlikely that large numbers of primary school children would be out at lunchtime". "Delivery vehicles are most likely to have difficulty negotiating the (Walter Road) junction. I am convinced by the written and photographic evidence and by my inspection, that the junction is potentially dangerous and that there would be harmful effects on safety and amenity resulting from the use by heavy vehicles of the narrow lane. Most danger would be caused to those on foot and on bicycles."
 Dr. Fox : That was not my point. I was asking the Minister whether the Government, through their responsibility for the local authority, could ask their lawyers to give us a view on the relative responsibilities of the district council's highways authority and its role in challenging the right of access—for example, to a quarry where permissions have already been given. It is a slightly separate matter from the Government being involved in the permission itself. I would be grateful for that legal view.
 Dr. Fox : Given that, by 2042, even I will be 81, will the Minister help us with the legal problem in the short term? It seems odd—I am not a lawyer—that we cannot have a cemetery in the lane because it is too dangerous, but that we can have a quarry in the lane, where the lorries are larger than the hearses we might have locally. How can it be that the district council, through the highways authority, can stop the cemetery going ahead, but is powerless to stop the quarry traffic? Will the Minister undertake to ask his Department to get a legal view on what powers the district council has through the local highways authority to restrict traffic on safety grounds?
 Mr. Ancram : The right hon. Gentleman will remember that at about that time of night, when he thought that he was going to lose the referendum by a small number of votes, he said—he was recorded on television—to me, "I hope that we can have a replay next week."
 Mr. Ancram : The Secretary of State is wriggling. If he really felt that, he would have no compunction about putting such a phrase in the Bill. He is not prepared to do it because he is frightened of a confrontation with the nationalists. He fought the referendum on the basis that, while he was telling one half of Wales that devolution would strengthen the Union, he allowed the leader of Plaid Cymru, the right hon. Member for Caernarfon (Mr. Wigley), to go around Wales talking about how it would lead to the break-up of the United Kingdom and to an independent Wales. He does not want to break up that happy friendship. Perhaps, in due course, we will help him to concentrate more closely on the matter. 698
 Mr. Ancram : I am grateful for the history lesson—the hon. Gentleman's history predates mine. We could all poke a bit of fun if the matter were not so very serious. Indeed, the drafting of the Bill leaves little room for levity. It is one of the most confused pieces of legislation that I have had the misfortune to study—and there is some pretty stiff competition. "as appears to him to be appropriate". "considers there are considerations relating to the Bill which make it inappropriate for him to do so". 694
 Mr. Ancram : I wonder whether the hon. Gentleman has read the Bill. I am not complaining about the democratic institution of a Welsh Assembly deciding these matters; I am complaining about the Secretary of State deciding them under the 45 order-making powers that he retains under the Bill. He will not tell us what those orders will contain. 695 "in any way he thinks necessary" "there is no economic imperative for establishing a Welsh Assembly." 696 "shall from time to time make payments to the Assembly out of money provided by Parliament of such amounts as he may determine". 697
 Mr. Ancram : I will tell the Secretary of State: in the only case where there has been devolution of power of this kind within the United Kingdom. I will gladly give way to the Secretary of State if he wishes to make the statement for which I ask, and I look to him to place those words in the Bill.
 Mr. Ancram : The supremacy of this Parliament means that it can do what it wishes. If the Secretary of State refers to Northern Ireland, he will see that assurances were given by the inclusion of such a provision in the Government of Ireland Act 1920 Why is he frightened of putting that phrase into the Bill by an amendment, which would merely replicate what is in the Government of Ireland Act 1920? That is a good precedent.
 Mr. Ancram : I am slightly puzzled by that, because, in the setting up of such advisory groups, the normal procedure, as followed by the Secretary of State for Scotland, is to write to the shadow spokesman and ask for a nomination. I still await a letter.
 Mr. Ancram : In Wales?
 Mr. Ancram : The right hon. Gentleman might perhaps have consulted his colleague the Secretary of State for Scotland, who, having announced publicly that he would do so, wrote to me some three weeks ago asking for a nomination for his equivalent advisory body. I have nominated for that body a very senior Conservative party member, who will play a constructive role in it. I would have expected the same courtesy from the Secretary of State for Wales.
 Mr. Ancram : Would the right hon. Gentleman like to take advice, because he has obviously not done his homework for the debate, about section 75 of the Government of Ireland Act 1920, which is still extant?
 Mr. Ancram : I shall help the right hon. Gentleman. Section 75 of the Government of Ireland Act 1920 states that
 "the supreme authority of the Parliament of the United Kingdom shall remain unaffected and undiminished over all persons, matters, and things"
 Mr. Michael Ancram  (Devizes) : I beg to move, To leave out from "That" to the end of the Question, and to add instead thereof:
 "this House, deploring the failure of Her Majesty's Government to respond to and allay the legitimate fears of the Welsh people expressed in the referendum vote of 18th September and in particular the omission from the Government of Wales Bill of any statutory assurances in relation to the supremacy of the Westminster Parliament, to the protection of geographic and cultural minorities, to the proper resourcing of Wales to reflect need, and to the safeguarding of the position of Wales within the United Kingdom and its voice within Europe, declines to give a Second Reading to the Government of Wales Bill."
 Mr. Ancram : I confirm that I said that. I wanted an agenda of what was to be discussed, and the Secretary of State said that there was no agenda. That does not excuse his making nominations from other parties by his own hand. I find that an extraordinary way to proceed. I make it clear that whomever the right hon. Gentleman has chosen to represent the Conservative party on his committee represents only himself; he does not represent the Conservatives in Wales. He cannot represent the Conservatives in Wales because he has not been authorised by the Conservative party in Wales. 687
 Mr. Ancram : We have never been invited by the Secretary of State to nominate someone to the advisory committee. The Secretary of State tells us today that, despite the fact that no invitation has been extended, he has made a decision himself. The Secretary of State for Scotland issued such an invitation and I made a senior appointment; I was intending to make a senior and useful appointment to the same position in Wales, but the Secretary of State for Wales has ridden roughshod over the normal parliamentary procedures and courtesies. If he is looking for consensus, that is not the way to achieve it.
 Mr. Ancram : The Secretary of State has announced what I can describe only as a shadowy figure to be his, not my, Conservative nomination for his advisory committee. If he wishes to have an authoritative representative of the Conservative party on the committee, he has not got one, because he has not gone through the appropriate channels.
 Mr. Ancram : The right hon. Gentleman gave my answer for me—he spoke of when there was a Bill before us. There is now a Bill before us and I said that, if he invited me when there was a Bill before us, I would come and talk to him. I have been waiting for that invitation; I have also been waiting for invitations to make nominations to the advisory committee. The right hon. Gentleman's behaviour is totally incompatible with the democratic nature of the House. 688
 Mr. Ancram : If the hon. Gentleman checks the figures I think that he will find that my percentage of the vote was about the same as that achieved by the Labour Government in securing their victory with a large majority, but he will not find me questioning the validity of that election result.
 Mr. Ancram : The percentages were first raised by the Secretary of State. I am merely responding to the debate, as I should. I accept that a simple majority may have been achieved—[HON. MEMBERS: "It was achieved."] A simple majority of 7,000 out of 1 million was achieved, but it cannot be claimed that it reflected the settled will of the Welsh people in favour of an assembly. It demonstrated clearly the uncertainties and fears in the minds of the Welsh electorate. Those fears were recognised by the Prime Minister on the morning after the referendum, when he referred to the narrowness of the margin and the need to take account of it and to allay the fears of the people of Wales. 689
 Mr. Ancram : Such lists normally appear as amendments on amendment papers. If the right hon. Gentleman contains himself he will see the amendments that we shall be introducing, about which I shall say a word or two later.
 Mr. Ancram : No, I shall not give way at the moment, as I wish to finish this passage.
 Mr. Ancram : We know the hon. Gentleman's position on the United Kingdom; it is not ours. 690 "you cannot play about with the British Constitution in a Committee upstairs, to put it colloquially."
 Mr. Ancram : As the Secretary of State is about to intervene, I want to ask him a question. How do the
 691 "it is, of course, also open to any MP to put forward changes to the Bill, and to have these explored in detail through open debate"?
 Mr. Ancram : Obviously, I would want to see the proposed timetable.
 Mr. Ancram : If the hon. Gentleman can contain himself, I am answering the question. "to put forward changes to the Bill" 692 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Ancram : Yes, I do accuse him of it. It lies four square with his patronising approach to those in the Labour party who have genuine worries about the detail of the proposals, and it tallies with his dismissive refusal to have any truck with the genuine concerns of the people of Wales about the Bill. It is a dangerous undermining of our constitutional procedures, and it cannot be justified by protestations of administrative convenience or modernised procedures. It may well make the Secretary of State's job easier, but all the procedures of the House should be not for the convenience of Government but for the good of our country and our constitution. 693
 Mr. Michael Ancram  (Devizes) : The Secretary of State began his speech by saying that we are dealing with a constitutional Bill. I presume he believes that it is a significant constitutional Bill. Why is he breaching the convention that the entire Committee stage is taken on the Floor of the House?
 Mr. Ancram : Is the right hon. Gentleman inviting the Conservative party to put forward a timetable for having all proceedings in Committee on the Floor?
 Mr. Ancram :  Indicated dissent.
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (North Essex) : I am grateful to the right hon. Gentleman. Is he aware of any Act of Parliament in which the explanatory and financial memorandum appears as part of that Act and can be considered by a court to be part of the law of the land?
 Mr. Jenkin : I am intrigued by the hon. Gentleman's musings about beef policy. Is it his understanding that an order to ban beef on the bone would be executed by the Welsh Assembly in respect of Wales and by the Scottish Parliament in respect of Scotland, and that such an order would apply in England only if executed by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food—that suggests chaos on such an issue—or that the order would be a United Kingdom ban executed through this Parliament by the Minister of Agriculture?
 Mr. Jenkin : We all understand the right hon. Gentleman's aspiration that Wales should one day have
 708
 Mr. Jenkin : The hon. Gentleman was pressed by my hon. Friend the Member for New Forest, West (Mr. Swayne) to give examples of the restraints that have been imposed on the Secretary of State and which he has accepted, because of the narrowness of the referendum result. The first example he gave was the Secretary of State's adoption of a system of proportional representation instead of the first-past-the-post system, but that proposal was in the White Paper. The second example was the membership of the commission appointed by the Secretary of State to advise on Standing Orders, but that is also in the White Paper, which says that it will include:
 "representatives of each of the main political parties in Wales". 713
 Mr. Jenkin   rose—
 Mr. Jenkin : Can we take it that the only reason why the Liberal Democrat party supports proportional representation is that it believes that it does better under that system than under the present first-past-the-post system that we have in the House of Commons? If so, and given that the Conservative party will put up candidates for the Welsh Assembly under PR, is he not being hypocritical by standing for this Parliament under a first-past-the-post system?
 Mr. Jenkin : I should be extremely grateful if the hon. Gentleman took the trouble to turn up at the Second Reading of the Bill on the government of Scotland to make all these explanations, and to make clear what he has discovered today, so that Scottish Members are equally well informed about the future of the Barnett formula and the likely effects on Scottish spending.
 Mr. Jenkin   rose—
 Mr. Jenkin : We hear much of the argument that because the ruling party at Westminster had no majority of Members in the Principality, the United Kingdom Government's rule in Wales had no legitimacy. Is that what the hon. Gentleman is saying? If so, he is articulating a nationalist argument, not a regionalist argument. That is a dangerous road to take his party down.
 Mr. Jenkin : The Government of Wales are sitting on the Treasury Bench—they are the Government of the United Kingdom. By setting up a separate administrative arrangement in Wales that is answerable to a separate assembly in Wales, the hon. Gentleman is institutionalising conflicts between Wales and London, between Cardiff—if that is where it ends up—and Whitehall. Is that not rather a dangerous thing to do given that some people do not support—the right hon. Member for Caernarfon (Mr. Wigley), who is not in his place at the moment, is one of them—the concept of the supremacy of Parliament? That being so, the assembly may become a platform for disputes about the sovereignty of Parliament.
 Mr. Jenkin : rose—
 Mr. Jenkin : Can the hon. Gentleman say in which European countries with a history and tradition of referendums a simple majority of a 50 per cent. turnout would be enough radically to change the constitution?
 Madam Speaker : Order. If the hon. Member for North Essex (Mr. Jenkin) has any comments to make, he should make them at the Dispatch Box, so that they can be recorded. I do not like comments that may be pertinent and relevant being made from a sedentary position.
 Madam Speaker : No, I have had enough, thank you. I know exactly what I am doing on this question. 668
 Madam Speaker : Perhaps I could be helpful to the hon. Gentleman and more senior Members who are not aware of some of our guidelines, Standing Orders and procedures. I refer him to page 301 of the latest issue of "Erskine May"—it must be the latest edition, which was published at the end of last month. Paragraph 12 makes it clear that oral questions to departmental Ministers should
 "indicate, within reasonably broad limits, a particular subject matter."
 Madam Speaker : I have not been informed by any Minister that the Government are seeking to make a statement on that issue.
 Madam Speaker : I have no indication of what is to be said in the statement, but I have no doubt that those on the Treasury Bench will have noted the comments—hardly a point of order—of the hon. Gentleman.
 Madam Speaker : The allocation of time to Ministers is nothing whatever to do with me. That is arranged through the usual channels. Perhaps if it were left to me, it would be quite different, but it is not my responsibility, and I have no authority in those matters—alas.
 Madam Speaker : I refer the hon. Gentleman to the reply that I just gave. With reference to blocking measures, surely Members of Parliament have a good deal of ingenuity. They need ingenuity to get here in the first place. I should have thought that there was some way round the Order Paper and within the procedures of the House that the hon. Member and others could find.
 Madam Speaker : I inform the House that I have selected the amendment standing in the name of the Leader of the Opposition.
 Mr. Alan Keen : I am sure that my hon. Friend the Minister will give his full support to the two British teams in the World cup in France next year, and look out for the rights of supporters travelling from the United Kingdom to France. The taxi driver who drove me home from the BBC studios yesterday said that he and his friends were organising trips to Europe and that they were supporting Jamaica, so there will be citizens of this country traveling
 655
 Mr. Allan Rogers  (Rhondda) : Does the right hon. Gentleman accept that the referendum has been held and that silly mathematical arguments do no service to the people of Wales? We have a Bill which will set the pattern of the governance of Wales for the foreseeable future, and the sooner we bend our minds to putting the right structures in place to serve the people of Wales, the better we shall be doing our jobs as politicians. We really must forget about silly mathematical arguments that are of no use; the right hon. Gentleman is doing no service to the people of Wales by carrying on in this fashion.
 Mr. Rogers : Will my hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Rogers : So that my hon. Friend does not misunderstand me further, I was objecting to the Conservatives' continual carping about the validity of the referendum. We can discuss the figures and their implications privately, but if we want to do a service to the people of Wales, the sooner we get down to considering the detail in the Bill, the better we shall be serving them. I accept, as my hon. Friend says with his great experience, that we need to bring about a reconciliation, but we certainly ain't going to get it from the Conservatives.
 Mr. Rogers : We live in what is probably the finest democracy in the world, and I must confess that it is very sad to hear such trite remarks about developing a democracy. I contend that devolution and other forms of government have nothing to do with democracy. The Bill has nothing particularly to do with democracy—otherwise I would ask my hon. Friend the Member for Monmouth (Mr. Edwards), through you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, how on earth he comes to be sitting behind the Minister now. I cannot see how the Bill is an extension of democracy when it negates our existence in this place.
33.  Mr. Dismore : If he will make a statement concerning the development of the fast-track plan as part of his civil justice reforms. [18011]
 Mr. Dismore : Is my hon. Friend aware of the concerns expressed by trade unions—which, as a personal injury legal practitioner for 19 years, I share—that the fixed-cost regime of the fast-track system may prove so inflexible that the present very efficient legal schemes will not be able to be continued? Last year those schemes helped 150,000 accident victims recover £330 million in damages at no cost to the taxpayer.
 Mr. Andrew George  (St. Ives) : We shall get some more good news if my hon. Friend keeps going.
 Mr. Barry Jones  (Alyn and Deeside) : On a constructive note, may I tell my right hon. Friend that travelling from the north in my constituency to the south to Swansea or Cardiff, for example, is very difficult either by road, rail or air? If my right hon. Friend plans to make the assembly successful in its daily work, will he improve communications? Will he look particularly to the advantages of Hawarden airport being enlarged?
5.  Mr. Bill Michie : What plans he has to provide assistance for British athletes in respect of their training programmes. [17979]
 Mr. Michie : I welcome the statement and thank my hon. Friend. It is spreading the opportunities for athletes throughout the UK. The United Kingdom Sports Institute is a good idea. I am sure that it will be successful, and the icing on the cake to make sure that everyone knows that it will be successful is for its headquarters to finish up in Sheffield.
7.  Mr. Bill O'Brien : What representations he has received from organisations asking for changes to the distribution arrangement for national lottery money; and if he will make a statement. [17981]
 Mr. O'Brien : I thank my right hon. Friend for that reply. Is he aware that there is a great deal of concern about the possible closure of village and community halls throughout the country? Six halls in my constituency are under threat. Will he advise us on how organisations which care for the elderly and the disabled and which arrange events for young people and other groups can obtain resources from the national lottery? If we are to save community life and provide neighbourhood schemes, it is important that some of the lottery money is used to help organisations in our communities. Will my right hon. Friend give us some advice on that matter?
 Mr. Smith : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. The Bill that we published last week includes a specific
 657
 Mr. Smith : The right hon. Lady is wrong. Over the seven-year period of the current franchise, the existing five distributors will receive £1.8 billion—which, in each case, is precisely what they were originally expecting to receive. For existing distributors, therefore, there is no shortfall. What is clear, however, is that the hon. Lady—like the entire Conservative party—is uninterested in the welfare of kids after school. She is uninterested in tackling social exclusion and in providing healthy living advice for people throughout the United Kingdom.
 Mr. Chris Smith : We have received almost 600 responses to the White Paper, "The People's Lottery". Of the 354 commenting on the proposed changes to distribution, 328–93 per cent.—were positive. Nine out of 10 of those who responded backed our proposals. A copy of the analysis of the responses to the White Paper will be available in the Library shortly. The National Lottery Bill, which was introduced last week, will give effect to our proposals.
 Mr. Smith : Although I agreed with most of what the hon. Gentleman said in his pursuit of the interests of sustainability, I am afraid that he made a bad point. Many of the improvements in road safety, and especially car safety, have come from the engineering expertise put into formula one in this country.
 Mr. Chris Smith : The Government plan to end sponsorship of sport by tobacco companies and will work actively with sports, business people and others to find alternative forms of sponsorship.
 Mr. Smith : All European citizens are being given equal treatment under the directive brilliantly negotiated by my hon. Friend the Minister for Public Health last week. As the hon. Gentleman will know from having studied the detail carefully, all countries will have three years from the date of adoption in which to implement the directive in their national law. There will then be a two-year transitional period for all tobacco-sponsored events and activities, with a further three years allowed for events or activities organised at world level.
 Mr. Smith : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. Conservative Members have never accepted a ban even on tobacco advertising, let alone sponsorship, in this country. We had three objectives from the outset. The first was a complete phasing out of tobacco sponsorship. The second was protection of the interests of sports and the arts. The third was to make special provision for those sports that were particularly badly affected. We have secured all three of those objectives.
 Mr. Smith : Perhaps that is why, immediately after the announcement of the outcome of the directive, Maurice Lindsay of the Rugby Football League said:
 "I am sure that the other sports will be equally satisfied with last night's announcement. We are grateful to the Prime Minister for listening to us and responding so positively".
 Mr. Smith : No one has been robbed of allocated money. If the right hon. Gentleman seriously examines the facts—as he is singularly unwont to do—he will discover that that is the case. In July 1996, the then Secretary of State, the right hon. Member for South-West
 658 "Lottery funds are not intended to substitute for funds which would have otherwise been provided by conventional public expenditure."
 Mr. Smith : I will tell the right hon. Gentleman two things. First, our commitment was set out clearly in black and white before the election. As it is clear that the right hon. Gentleman did not hear the first time, I will repeat it. We should like to see institutions do all that they can to balance the books while maximising access. What matters is maximising access in the best possible way for each institution or gallery. If the right hon. Gentleman talks to the directors and chairmen of galleries and museums, he will find that that is what they are anxious to do. Secondly, public expenditure survey allocations to individual museums and galleries will be announced within the next few days.
 Mr. Smith : I can certainly give my hon. Friend that assurance. Part of the code of practice on which we are consulting flags up the importance of education and the access for schoolchildren, in particular, to this country's great national collections.
 Mr. Smith : I am not sure what the hon. Gentleman means by "in part". If he is referring to the fact that the science museum, which charges for entry, none the less allows 43 per cent. of its visitors to get in free, he makes a valid point. The overwhelming majority of museums are already doing that. We have made it clear both before and since the election that it is up to the trustees of each gallery to decide how best to maintain good access for the public. For some, that may be a wish to see free admission. For others, it may be free periods or free entry for certain groups but not for everyone. It is up to the museums to decide. The Government's job is to provide the framework within which they can pursue their chosen course.
 Mr. Smith : I look forward to discovering in detail the representations that the hon. Gentleman made on this subject to the Conservative Government over the past 18 years. We said before the election in our document, "Create the Future":
 "We would like to see institutions do all they can to balance the books while maximising access."
 Mr. Smith : I have said two things today. First, we are consulting the national galleries and museums on the development of a code of good practice, with a view to making that code a condition for the receipt of grant in aid in due course. Secondly, a heritage lottery access fund is being developed, and all museums will be able to apply to it, whether they are chargers or non-chargers, so as to broaden access for the citizen.
 The Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport (Mr. Chris Smith) : This morning I placed in the Library details of the progress of the review of admission charges, together with a consultation paper on the development of a code of good practice for museums and galleries. I am delighted to announce that the heritage lottery fund is to create a museums and galleries access fund, which will assist initiatives to extend access to our great collections. I shall make a further announcement when my Department's spending review is completed next summer.
 Mr. Fraser : Does the Secretary of State agree that all British citizens should be given the same treatment? If so, does he agree that other sports which rely heavily on sponsorship from tobacco companies have not been given the same treatment as formula one?
6.  Mr. Fraser : What plans the Government have to change the regulations governing business sponsorship of sport. [17980]
36.  Mr. Pickthall : If he will make a statement about the future of magistrates courts in Lancashire. [18014]
 Mr. Pickthall : Will my hon. Friend give me his thinking on two aspects? First, in any reconfiguration of the Lancashire courts, will he expect the court areas to be co-terminous with police areas? Secondly, what is his attitude to mini private finance initiative schemes for the refurbishment of existing buildings instead of the building of brand new ones?
 Mr. Crispin Blunt  (Reigate) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I attempted to table an oral question to the Secretary of State for Defence, asking him on what date he expected to publish the strategic defence review. I was advised by the Clerk that there was a convention that, as my question gave no particular guide to my supplementary, I could not table it as an oral question. When I repeated my experience to very senior colleagues, I was told that they were unaware of any such convention. I should be grateful for your guidance, Madam Speaker.
 Mr. Dafis : Does the Secretary of State agree that sponsorship should be targeted at activities that are compatible with sustainable development and provide good role models, especially for young people? Does he further agree that formula one is the epitome of unsustainability and provides a thoroughly bad role model for young people, especially young men? Should not the fact that the celebration of travelling at high speed leads to deaths on the road among young people be borne in mind when thinking about sponsorship? Will not formula one and the Government's actions cause more deaths than, for example, the infinitesimal risk referred to last week in the statement on BSE?
 Mr. Dafis : I have a constituency point, similar to that raised by the hon. Member for Linlithgow (Mr. Dalyell) because the national headquarters of the Forestry Commission—I use the word "national" rather than "regional"—are based at Aberystwyth. It is extraordinarily important that we have an all-Wales strategy for forestry with the organisational backing for it within Wales.
 Mr. Cynog Dafis  (Ceredigion) : What about a body such as the Curriculum Assessment Authority for Wales, the Awdurdod Cwricwlwm, Cymwysterau ac Asesu? The assembly may wish to bring together the functions of curriculum assessment and development and examinations, because those functions are closely linked. Examinations are the responsibility of the Welsh Joint Education Committee, which is a local government body. Would it be possible to bring about such useful integration, to provide a more efficient system?
 Mr. Dafydd Wigley  (Caernarfon) : Is the Secretary of State confirming, that if there is a need or a wish to transfer functions such as the police, which are now with the Home Office, to the assembly, it will be necessary first to transfer them to the Secretary of State and then from the Secretary of State to the assembly? If so, how does that fit in with the list of functions in schedule 2, which does not seem to leave room for that transfer to take place? Can schedule 2 be amended by any of the orders that he has in mind under clauses 22 and 23?
 Mr. Wigley : Has the Conservative party drawn up a list, which it may present at the Committee or Report stage of the Bill, of the changes that it wants to see in order to make the Bill acceptable to the people of Wales along the lines that the right hon. Gentleman is suggesting?
 Mr. Wigley : I listened with considerable interest to the arguments advanced by the Labour party throughout the campaign for a yes vote. They were largely based on extending democracy in Wales and getting democratic answerability for a tier of government, much of which was made up of quangos or was within the Welsh Office and not open to adequate scrutiny and answerability. 703
 Mr. Wigley : I did indeed say that we would fight, fight and fight again to secure what we wanted. We acknowledged the validity, as did many of the right hon. Gentleman's colleagues who appeared on television on the evening of the referendum, that, if the no campaigners won by a handful of votes, that would be enough to kill the Bill.
 Mr. Wigley : If in other circumstances it had been determined that a mandate must be above a certain threshold proportion of the electorate, Bill Clinton would not have become President of the United States, Margaret
 704
 Mr. Wigley : That is an interesting point, given the fact that arguments in Wales are often presented as being polarised as between north and south. Recently, there has been an east-west divide—and not only terms of the way in which people voted in the referendum. We have seen the divide manifest itself in income per head, unemployment and many other factors. There may well have been a correlation. The highest yes votes were in the areas of greatest deprivation in Wales, both down the western side and in the old coalfield valleys, running through as far as parts of Gwent. "Without a national assembly—at once the symbol of unity and the instrument of self government—Wales's position as a nation cannot be assured, and her work as a nation cannot be done." 705
 Mr. Wigley : We would, of course, have preferred the assembly envisaged in 1978 to have had the full law-making powers that Scotland would have got, and which it is now getting in its Parliament. However, I believe that the will of the people of Wales, articulated through the vehicle of an assembly, would have had considerable force with the way in which policies were implemented in Wales. It could not have been ignored. It would have been worth having, although it would not have given a guarantee. To that extent, the hon. Member for Linlithgow (Mr. Dalyell) is right. I shall deal with that point in the context of our proposals later. 706
 Mr. Wigley : I accept what the leadership of the Conservative party said before the general election and what the leadership of the Labour party has said: that, if the peoples of Wales and Scotland determined through referendums that they wanted assemblies, Parliament would deliver them and that the Conservative party would not scrap an elected Welsh national assembly or Scottish Parliament without a subsequent referendum. That is a de facto recognition of the right of the people of Scotland—of the claim of right, as it is defined in Scotland—and of the people of Wales to take those decisions. 707 "Wales needs a strong voice in Europe." "The Assembly will take over the Welsh Office's responsibilities for administering the European Strategic Funds".
 Mr. Wigley : Yes. From the assurances given in a Scottish context, I believe that the Scottish Agriculture Minister would be entitled to sit side by side with the UK Agriculture Minister in the Council of Ministers. Given the assurance that Wales will be treated equally with Scotland in that matter, I expect the Secretary of the Welsh Assembly with responsibility for agriculture to be part of the delegation when agricultural matters that have an impact on Wales arise in the Council of Ministers in Brussels. That is the spirit in which I took the statements made in the House today and on previous occasions. That is important for Welsh farmers.
 Mr. Wigley : At the Council of Ministers, a policy advocated at European level may be equally acceptable and relevant to England, Scotland and Wales or be acceptable to one part and not the others. if an agricultural policy is acceptable, say, in East Anglia but not in Wales, it is right and proper that we should have someone there to articulate that, even within the UK team. I would much rather we had a full seat in the Council of Ministers, but it is better for us to have someone there who can at least prod the United Kingdom Minister and say, "Hey, we have these requirements," than for us to have no one at all. To that extent at least, I see this as a step forward.
 Mr. Dafydd Wigley  (Caernarfon) : I listened to the authentic voice of the elder statesman of the Labour party, the hon. Member for Ogmore (Sir R. Powell), with considerable interest. Given his comments during the referendum campaign, I was particularly interested to hear the hon. Gentleman express the hope that the assembly would come into being as rapidly as possible and would be a fitting tribute to the late Emrys Jones. If that is the case—I clearly accept the hon. Gentleman's comments—there is at least some coming together on the principles, if not on the details, of the proposals before us today.
 Mr. Wigley : I did not use that term. I did not say that the representative of the Welsh Assembly or Scottish Parliament could speak on the behalf of the whole UK, but that he could be part of the UK delegation, side by side with the UK Minister. There is a difference between what the hon. Gentleman said and what I said. I am sure that he recognises that. It is an important right that there should be a direct link from the Scottish Parliament or the Welsh Assembly to the team in Brussels when vital matters that are their responsibility are discussed.
 Mr. Wigley : Of course I do—and, as the hon. Gentleman no doubt accepts, the Community obligations are equally binding on the House. "provide for members of the assembly to represent Wales on the Committee of the Regions." 709 [Laughter.] 710 "A fo ben, bid bont",
 Mr. Wigley : It is.
 Mr. Wigley : Did the hon. Gentleman hear Lord Barnett say on Welsh television some three weeks ago that, if the Barnett formula were reviewed now, Wales would almost certainly be better off under that review than under the present formula?
 Mr. Wigley : Is not the logic of these tedious Conservative interventions the idea that there should be a threshold for our Westminster votes as well? Are the Tories seriously advocating such a dramatic change in our practices here? They look bemused. It seems that they want to lay down thresholds for others, but not to entertain the idea here.
 Mr. Wigley : Does not the Bill allow sub-committees to be set up for each committee? The committee may be both a supervisory committee for the Minister and a body akin to a Select Committee, given the powers that are available. Those powers may best be exercised through a sub-committee system, with a restricted number of main committees, and with sub-committees to focus on the detail to which the hon. Gentleman refers.
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : I welcome the very positive way in which my right hon. Friend has gone about this matter in his statement today— [Interruption.]
 Mr. David Hanson  (Delyn) : Does the right hon. Gentleman recall that on 1 May this year he secured 25,710 votes out of an electorate of 80,383 which means that 69 per cent. of the people of Devizes did not vote for him? I do not deny him his right to sit in the House, but if he wishes to do so, he can take the Chiltern Hundreds today.
 Mr. Hanson : I do not accept that. The hon. Gentleman will find that in due course there will be regional arrangements for England, because they constitute the natural way to go forward. I regard the proposed establishment of the assembly and the referendum in Wales as successes. As has been said, there was cross-party co-operation, which added to the success of the assembly campaign. The three parties—the Liberals, Plaid Cymru and Labour—worked together to try to ensure that there was a mandate. I accept that it was a marginal mandate and that in my constituency area, Flintshire, there was a no vote. It was, however, a Wales-wide assembly vote. 745
 Mr. Hanson : This is not "Mastermind", and my topic is not European referendums in the 20th century. I cannot answer that question; perhaps the hon. Gentleman will refer to it in his closing speech. The point is that, on 18 September, the rules were clear. The House set the rules and on 18 September the Government won on those rules.
 Mr. Hanson : I give way for the last time.
 Mr. Hanson ; I have given way enough. As the hon. Gentleman represents West Dorset, perhaps he should
 746
 Mr. Hanson : Much in the Bill will strengthen relationships in the Union and the relationship between the House and the people of Wales because it will give confidence to both. The assembly, once in place, will establish public authority over the 80 quangos that are now operational in the Welsh Office. That is a good thing. The Bill gives power to elected democracy rather than to a quango democracy. 744
 Mr. Hanson : The House has been sovereign and has been accepted as sovereign. It is still sovereign under the Bill. I say that the government of Wales should reflect the wishes of the people of Wales. When the assembly is established, the people will have an opportunity to put forward their case, to argue their case and to elect assembly members. They will have a democratic input into the running of functions that are now run by the Welsh Office.
 Mr. David Hanson  (Delyn) : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for giving me the opportunity to contribute to this historic debate on legislation to establish an assembly for Wales. I am genuinely saddened by Conservative Members' failure to learn the lessons of 1 May and before then. It seems to me that the Conservative party has failed miserably to understand why no Conservative Members speak today for Wales from Welsh constituencies, why the Conservative party received its smallest share of the vote in Wales for many years and why it was wiped out in Wales for the first time since 1906. It saddens me that Conservative Members have failed to understand those issues concerning the Welsh dimension.
 Mr. Hanson : I shall come to that point in due course. All hon. Members have lessons to learn from the referendum campaign and its result, but that does not diminish the fact that the Conservative party has learnt nothing. I hope that, before the Bill completes its passage through Parliament, Conservative Members will come on board and help to make the assembly a success—which is what I believe most parties want. 742 743
 Mr. Hanson : Has the hon. Gentleman read clause 1(3)?
 Mr. Skinner : Does my hon. Friend agree that one of the problems about the past 18 years, among other things, is the fact that many school playing fields have been sold off? That has to stop. Secondly, when they closed the pits, they closed many of those centres of culture and sporting activities, the miners' welfares. That has to be stopped as well. Thirdly, there is the gap where youngsters leaving school find that there are no opportunities to carry on with athletics, unless they live in cities with athletics clubs.
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker. When you get a chance to look at this Opposition proposal, will you also examine precedents? It is important that, in all these cases, we know exactly what has gone on in previous years. Perhaps in your research you will come across the fact that the Tories received £440,000 from Asil Nadir. Suddenly, although he was under arrest, he escaped. I am not suggesting for a minute that the Prime Minister of the day said, "I think we had better let Asil Nadir get away to Cyprus, because if he ever gets to court, he will reveal all the skeletons in the Tories' cupboard."
2.  Mr. Skinner : What assistance is to be given to young people to widen the activity base of  (a) (b) (c)
 Mr. Davies : Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman will answer this question: what is to stop this Parliament repealing section 75 of that Act? The answer is, nothing at all, which is precisely my point. Given that we have an unwritten constitution and that everyone recognises the supremacy of Parliament, his proposition that there should be a statutory assurance in relation to the supremacy of Parliament is absolutely meaningless. 686
 Mr. Davies : I am happy to take advice and to read the section to which the right hon. Gentleman refers, but will he answer this central question? How is it possible for— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Davies : No. Any hon. Member may speak on Second Reading. Any hon. Member may table amendments or new clauses on Report, if there is a Report stage. Third Reading provides a further opportunity. Any hon. Member who wishes to do so may speak on Second Reading and attempt to get a place on the Standing Committee. That includes Conservative Members, but I suspect that not many of them are dying to serve on the Standing Committee. That is my answer to the question.
 Mr. Davies : I shall need to check to give the hon. Gentleman a precise answer, because he mentions a body which, as he knows, has its origins outwith the Welsh Office and the Secretary of State. I shall write to him with a detailed answer before the Bill goes to Committee. I do not want to speculate on an answer at this stage. 679
 Mr. Denzil Davies  (Llanelli) : Does my right hon. Friend intend to transfer all the existing functions of his office at one and the same time to the Welsh Assembly, or is he contemplating a phased transfer?
 Mr. Davies : I know that the right hon. Gentleman has been to Wales once, but he does not know everything about Wales. He should contain himself. I have consulted widely with the Conservative party in Wales and, later this week, when I unveil the advisory group, he will acknowledge that the Conservative member on the group has impeccable credentials. I have no doubt that, when I announce the name later this week, the right hon. Gentleman will be the first to endorse him. 680 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Davies : The problem is that, when I write to my shadow spokesman, I never get a reply.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Davies : As I have said, we shall table Government amendments to deal with that point, and I have no doubt that there will be an opportunity at the appropriate time for a fuller debate on the matter, when the hon. Gentleman can put his constituency case. 685
 Mr. Davies : The hon. Gentleman's understanding is correct, but, more than that, if the advisory group were to propose a balance of arrangements as between the Cabinet and local government styles, that would essentially be a matter for the group. I would want to consider its views carefully before the representations went to the statutory commission, which would ultimately create the standing orders, so that could happen before the first sitting of the assembly, but that is a matter for consultation and for those of us who are listening. I know that the Conservative party is pressing hard on the matter, and I want to see the representations that it makes through its excellent representative on the advisory group. 681 [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
 Mr. Davies : Those matters are currently the subject of discussions. I can assure my hon. Friend that there is not likely to be any diminution in the employment prospects of people working for the Forestry Commission in his constituency. We must ensure that the advantages that come from the Forestry Commission retaining an overall strategic role for forestry in the United Kingdom are compatible with our aim that it should be answerable for operations in Scotland and Wales to the Scottish Parliament and the Welsh Assembly.
 Mr. Davies : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for putting his point clearly, so that we can understand it. He wants the Barnett formula arrangements to be included in the Bill. He is nodding, so at least we agree on the question. The Barnett formula is not currently enshrined in legislation. It is a practice that has been adhered to by both the last Labour Government— [Interruption.] [Interruption.] [Interruption.] 682
 Mr. Davies : I do not invite another intervention, but I am not sure that I understood the hon. Gentleman's question. The arrangements by which the representative from the assembly will take part in the discussions at a European level will be subject to the concordats that will be worked out by the assembly and the relevant Whitehall Department. Any discretion given to an individual representative—whether an assembly secretary or another representative—will be a matter for the assembly to decide. That is the purpose of the arrangements. If assembly members wish to give autonomy on certain matters to representatives to work within the United Kingdom's Council delegation, it will be a matter for them. 684
 Mr. Davies : I am happy to allow the hon. Gentleman to intervene if he wishes.
 Mr. Davies : It is a matter not of courtesy, but of practice. The Secretary of State for Scotland has decided to consult in his way. I have consulted widely with Conservative party interests in Wales and I assure the right hon. Gentleman that, later this week, he will accept the fact—I have no doubt about this, because he is not a churlish individual—that the individual who represents the Conservative party interest on the advisory group has wide experience and is a fitting representative of the Conservative party.
 Mr. Davies : My hon. Friend might find the answer odd. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State will have the statutory functions that I currently exercise but which are not transferred to the assembly. That is the important point, but I shall ensure that my hon. Friend receives a clearer, written answer.
 Mr. Denzil Davies : I was intrigued by the phrase "non-statutory concordats". Will my right hon. Friend explain whether those concordats will be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts, should one party to a concordat disagree with the other about its application?
 Mr. Davies : No, I do not envisage that the concordats will be subject to the courts. They will be agreements
 683
 Mr. Denzil Davies : Does the right hon. Gentleman suggest that a member of the assembly should sit in the Council of Agriculture Ministers?
 Mr. Denzil Davies : Is there not greater concern about the vote going in such a way that Offa's dyke could have been said to have moved westward than about the narrowness of the vote? The boundaries of Wales seem to have changed. East Wales, with exceptions, voted against and west Wales, with exceptions, voted for.
 Mr. Davies : I am not afraid of anything. I am trying to explain to the right hon. Gentleman that I am resisting putting a meaningless provision in the Bill. He has acknowledged that there is nothing to stop any future Parliament repealing any measure passed by this or any other Parliament. Why does he not accept that a central pillar of the British constitution is that this Parliament is sovereign? Nothing that this Parliament does can bind any future Parliament. That needs no legislation.
 Mr. Davies : I have given the right hon. Gentleman a clear answer—that provision is meaningless. Will he answer my question? What is to stop this Parliament, if it wishes, repealing that measure?
 Mr. Denzil Davies : The hon. Gentleman raises an important point about beef on the bone. As I understand it, if the Bill is passed, the agricultural powers of the Welsh Office will end up in the Welsh Assembly. Does he understand that, in that situation, if an English Minister of Agriculture banned beef on the bone, a Welsh Assembly might not have to ban it?
 Mr. Denzil Davies : I want to make my position clear. Is it the hon. Gentleman's understanding of the Bill that, if the English Minister of Agriculture was able to ban by order—not primary legislation—beef on the bone, as appears to be the case, a Welsh Assembly would not have to pass such an order, and people in Wales could continue to eat beef on the bone?
 Mr. Swayne : I have, and at the outset of the debate I heard the Secretary of State's assertion that this Parliament is sovereign. The Bill should begin with a ringing declaration of the sort in the 1920 Act. For the Secretary of State to say that it would be meaningless because it could be repealed is nonsense. If this Bill becomes an Act, it too could be repealed, but that does not make it meaningless. The logic used by the Secretary of State is wholly inadequate. 740
 Mr. Desmond Swayne  (New Forest, West) : I shall be brief. After the referendum, the Prime Minister spoke of the need to allay fears and to be sensitive. 739
 Mr. Swayne : No, I do not see any merit in that proposition. As far as I am concerned, 20 too many assembly members will be elected by proportional representation. The system will not be understood clearly by the electorate—the voters will be confused. Some assembly members will be elected by the people and others will not because they will be chosen within the party system.
 Mr. Swayne : The hon. Gentleman misunderstands my position completely. I am absolutely in favour of the first-past-the-post system. The Conservatives have not grumbled about the fact that we lost all our parliamentary representatives in Wales—although we made a not unhealthy showing in terms of total votes. We live and die by a system that has advantages and disadvantages. A clear advantage of the system is that it is understood by the people of Wales and of this country.
 Mr. Swayne : Will the hon. Gentleman comment on the point raised by the hon. Member for Brecon and Radnorshire (Mr. Livsey), who saw the assembly—quite how he discerned this I am not sure—as an opportunity for a vast new road-building programme in Wales? How does that square with sustainable development?
 Mr. Swayne : That is precisely the strength of the system. We must recognise that many electors cast their votes against particular candidates. That is a phenomenon from which the Labour party benefited on 1 May—many voters were determined to see the back of a particular rascal. I apologise, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Labour Members would rob the electorate of that opportunity in the case of a third of assembly members.
 Mr. Swayne : Can the hon. Gentleman comment on the inevitability of an element among those who support the assembly and who will be members of it setting out to maximise disputes between the assembly and Westminster, precisely because they want the assembly to become a parliament for an independent Wales? Will he reflect on the fact that the arrangements, if they are to survive, will have to work when there is a lack of good will, as well as when there is an abundance of it?
 Mr. Swayne : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Swayne : To which Parliament should those who want their grievances redressed come? Should they riot outside this Parliament or outside the assembly? Should
 730
 Mr. Swayne : The hon. Gentleman suggested that the Government have been placed under certain constraints by the narrowness of the referendum result. How are those constraints expressed in the Bill?
 Mr. Desmond Swayne  (New Forest, West) : Tell it.
 Mr. Donald Anderson   rose—
 Mr. Anderson : I can give the hon. Gentleman a catalogue of examples. Had we been triumphalist and said that the majority that we won on 1 May entitled us to write the Bill as we liked, it is conceivable that we would not have adopted a system of proportional representation, which may bring the Conservative party back to life in Wales, given that it was chased out of Wales at the last election. That is one of the greatest acts of political generosity by a party that believes that a moribund corpse of the Conservative party in Wales is bad for democracy. The Conservative party had 20 per cent. of the votes in the election, but has no seats in Wales. We are trying to help because we are democrats: we are not being triumphalist.
 Mr. Anderson : First, I should have said that we should look at the advisory committee. Secondly, the issue of location has been opened for discussion by the Secretary of State through the consultative document that was issued on Thursday. The system of proportional representation may with one leap bring back from the dead the Conservative party in Wales. I shall give some of my reasons for supporting that proposal. I sent a memorandum to Labour's commission on precisely the lines that were accepted.
 Mr. Anderson : I am pleased to have that clarification from my right hon. Friend. The proof of the pudding will be in the working out of the proposals.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Anderson : I am convinced that Moses Ron did not bring the tablets of stone down from Plynlimon, send them to the House and then leave them. The process is inclusive and it is wholly consistent with the spirit of diversity in Wales. Thus Hiraeth is not longing for Wales but for one's own locality. People who go to parties in Wales are never asked, as they would be in England, "What do you do?" as if one's identity is in one's job. People are asked where they come from, because the essence of our identity is the local area from which we come. That is a far more human response. 714 "At the present time the advice of our respective Estate advisers is that the leaseback to the Council would be £60,000 p. a. resulting in a net rental cost for the Assembly of £340,000 p. a." 715 "we would be happy to negotiate other arrangements, either freehold or leasehold, for the Assembly's tenure of the Guildhall." "have set out to match the vision of their forefathers who, amongst many other achievements, bequeathed us the magnificent Guildhall building…Having tested such a wide range of local opinion, we have come to the view that in financial terms we should seek no more from you than the net rental figure set out above. In other words, the broader economic and democratic benefits of locating the National Assembly in Swansea would be full justification for absorption of any consequential costs to the Council".
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : I am delighted to follow the constructive good wishes expressed by the right hon. Member for Caernarfon (Mr. Wigley) on behalf of his party. I expect similar good wishes from the hon. Member for Brecon and Radnorshire (Mr. Livsey) on behalf of his party, joining the coalition of view that narrowly won in the referendum in September. It is sad that that group was not only not joined, but actively opposed—and remains actively opposed—by the Conservative party, whose spokesman this evening, in respect of Wales, offered a hymn of praise in favour of the status quo: no more, no less. The Conservative party is ready to oppose every innovation until it becomes a tradition, as it did in respect of the Welsh Office and the Welsh Development Agency. 711 "to pay ever-increasing amounts to prop up" "a job-destroying and expensive bureaucracy"—[ Official Report,
 Mr. Anderson : The principle of having or not having an assembly was decided not by us, but by the people
 712
 Mr. Donald Anderson  (Swansea, East) : Is not the reality that it might have been possible to have all proceedings on the Floor if the Conservatives had not made minor, silly points to seek to drag out the discussions, but come forward with a reasonable timetable? Their response so far has shown that they are not ready to accept the result of the referendum.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : Everyone understands the hon. Gentleman's need to press for his own little area, but is there available in Machynlleth a meeting place of sufficient prestige with sufficient seating capacity, which could be available by May 1999, as Swansea guildhall would be in a cost-effective way?
 Mr. Anderson : In time?
 Mr. Donald Anderson : I remind my hon. Friend of another example that shows that the Conservative party may be less than consistent—ballots in respect of grant-maintained status for schools. In a ballot in my constituency, despite a very small turnout and a minuscule majority, a school became grant-maintained. Therefore, for the Conservative party it is a matter not of principle but of what happens to suit its purpose at any moment.
 Mr. Donald Anderson : Another factor is that the party that claims to be the party of the Union would have been well on the way to destroying that Union if the clearly expressed views of Wales and Scotland had been overwhelmed by an English vote. Indeed, there could be no better recipe for the break-up of the union than if Wales and Scotland had been denied the constitutional settlement that they wanted.
 Mr. Garnier : In the week that the Government are undermining disability living allowance, the independent living fund, family credit and single-parent benefits,
 664
 Mr. Llwyd : May I, on behalf of Welsh farmers, assure everyone that they have not have been rioting? Rioting is a very serious legal issue. The crisis is extremely deep. Let us please not take it lightly. The hon. Gentleman made some strange remarks ealier, and I found them downright offensive.
 Mr. Elfyn Llwyd  (Meirionnydd Nant Conwy) : rose—
 Mr. Maude : The hon. Gentleman started with five minutes of questions and it has now come down to four—we can look forward to its decreasing further. I am sure that everyone shares my relief that, in view of his dislike of what he calls "excessive accountability", he has come back at all. Does he not understand that his reluctance to
 661
 Mr. Francis Maude  (Horsham) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I wish to raise the issue of the Prime Minister's refusal to answer important written questions of considerable public interest, about the discussions that he had with representatives of the British film industry before the July Budget. Those questions were asked by my right hon. Friend the Member for Wells (Mr. Heathcoat-Amory), answered on 24 November, and myself, answered on 28 November.
 Mr. Maude : Is not the Secretary of State wriggling off a virtual commitment that he would ensure free access to all museums? What financial support has he offered to the trustees of the British museum that has enabled them to change their settled intention to introduce entrance charges? Can he give the House an unqualified assurance that the British museum has not been offered any support that is not available on identical terms to all other museums of national importance, irrespective of whether they charge for entrance?
 Mr. Maude : I assume that the Secretary of State agrees with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who said in his pre-Budget statement:
 "A national child care strategy is …now the policy of this country's Government.—[ Official Report "We don't believe it would be right to use Lottery money to pay for things which are the Government's responsibilities"?
 Mr. Gareth Thomas  (Clwyd, West) : The right hon. Gentleman is in danger of missing the point. Making the Bill too prescriptive in terms of the powers to be accorded to the assembly runs counter to the very principle behind it, which is to provide democratic accountability to match the administrative devolution that has gone on apace in Wales for the past 18 years.
 Mr. Gareth Thomas : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. His comments about proportional representation have some interest in the context of the opening remarks by the right hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. Ancram), who placed great emphasis on the need to protect minorities. Does my hon. Friend agree that it would be appropriate for the Opposition to welcome that element of the proposals that will certainly preserve a minority in Wales: the Conservative party? If the assembly is to be all-embracing, it must represent all shades of opinion in Wales.
 Mr. Gareth Thomas : Is not this an illustration of parliamentary sovereignty in operation? Tonight, we have heard much from Conservative Members about parliamentary sovereignty. Does my hon. Friend agree that Parliament determined the rules within which the referendum would be conducted and that Parliament, exercising its sovereignty, determined that there should be no threshold?
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful for my hon. Friend's concern about this matter. We shall continue to make considerable efforts to attract as wide a variety of applications as possible. Such efforts have already been made by the Cheshire advisory committee, from which I know my hon. Friend has received a letter asking her to make suggestions on how to improve the system and on how we can encourage her constituents to apply for these important positions. I should be delighted if she took away that letter and encouraged as many as possible of her constituents to apply.
 The Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department (Mr. Geoffrey Hoon) : My right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor has already made the system more open. This year he is consulting more people than ever before about the suitability of candidates. Applications for silk are invited in a notice published in national newspapers and professional journals. The policies, procedures and criteria that he applies to those appointments are published each year in a guide for applicants. I have today placed a copy of the guide in the Library and it will be included on the Lord Chancellor's Department's website when it is next updated.
 Mr. Hoon : I thank my hon. Friend for all the constructive and helpful advice that he has given both to me personally and to the Department. He has brought to bear his considerable practical experience of these matters, and we are still learning from him; I can assure him that his comments are being thoroughly taken into account. Perhaps I may describe the way in which the Department is proceeding.
 Mr. Hoon : The Lord Chancellor's Department issued a working paper on judicial case management in July. The responses of practitioners and others have been carefully considered and, in the light of the comments received, amendments are being made to the original proposals for the fast track. Those amended proposals will be put before the civil procedure rule committee in February. A research project on fast-track costs is due to be completed by the end of January and we plan to issue a consultation paper on the level of those costs after Easter.
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his comments, and I agree that, too often, criticisms made of the existing system are used to attack the system that we propose. I am confident that, when we are able to bring about fundamental changes in the way in which the civil justice system works, those changes will have a very significant impact on costs and therefore the price paid by users of our legal system.
 Mr. Hoon : My hon. Friend may have missed the first part of my answer. I said that my right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor had significantly extended the number of people consulted on applications for silk. He has made clear his determination that more representatives from among women and ethnic minorities attain that position. People may be appointed only once they have applied and only on the basis of merit. I am grateful to my hon. Friend for any suggestions that he may have as to how we might encourage more people, particularly from ethnic minorities, to apply for positions.
 Mr. Hoon : My hon. Friend the Member for Hendon (Mr. Dismore) asked a specific question about the
 663
 Mr. Hoon : It is a bit rich for the hon. and learned Gentleman to protest about these matters; I do not recall ever hearing him protest about policies that were developed largely in the time when the Government he supported were in power. I am surprised that he was not protesting then, and I am still more surprised to hear him protest today. We are consulting widely with the insurance industry; I have told him the range of meetings that have taken place. Those discussions will continue, and we shall develop proposals accordingly.
 Mr. Hoon : Discussions with the insurance industry have taken place over a number of years on various matters, including conditional fees. Within the last month, my right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor and officials have held six meetings with insurers to discuss conditional fees. On 2 December, my right hon. and learned Friend had discussions with a delegation from the insurance industry, comprising seven insurers, underwriters and brokers and three officials of the Association of British Insurers. It was agreed that a working group of representatives of the industry and officials would be established, to develop a co-ordinated approach to the proposed reforms.
 Mr. Hoon : The Department has no current plans to review the arrangements for handling complaints against solicitors. The Office for the Supervision of Solicitors was established by the Law Society in September 1996 in response to public concern that the Solicitors Complaints Bureau was not sufficiently responsive to the needs of lay clients. I agree with the legal services ombudsman's last annual report, published in June 1997, which said that it will take two to three years before the office can be properly judged by results.
 Mr. Hoon : I am well aware that there is huge dissatisfaction with the way in which the Solicitors Complaints Bureau operated. It was felt to be doing a poor job and, as a Back Bencher, I entirely accepted that criticism. It always seemed to me that the Solicitors Complaints Bureau was finding reasons for not investigating cases instead of investigating them, but when a completely new body has been set up in a completely new way, I think it right that it should have the chance to prove that it can deal satisfactorily with complaints against solicitors. The Department will review the body's performance; when it publishes its first annual report, as it is due to do shortly, we will investigate to ensure that it reflects reality.
 Mr. Hoon : Coterminosity is a matter for the local magistrates courts committee, although I recently told the House that we would welcome any voluntary proposals to bring it about. We see real advantages in consistent
 666
 Mr. Hoon : My right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Chancellor directs his advisory committees to attract candidates for the lay magistracy from a broad spectrum of the community. To assist them, my right hon. and learned Friend has commissioned research into how best to undertake this task.
 Mr. Hoon : The Lancashire magistrates courts committee continues to be responsible for the efficient and effective administration of the magistrates courts. The Department has no proposals in respect of magistrates courts in Lancashire.
 Mr. Hoon : One of the great strengths of the British insurance industry is the fact that it comprises very large companies and very small underwriters. One of the benefits that they bring to the insurance industry in the United Kingdom is their ability to tailor insurance policies for specific types of consumer. I expect that, in the case of legal insurance, there will be large companies that provide large-scale insurance for the bigger firms of solicitors and small-scale operators who will be very interested in establishing insurance cover for small high street solicitors.
 Mr. Hoon : I am aware of the criticism; it has largely been levelled in the past against the SCB. There will be some differences, however. Under the new system, the adjudication and appeals committee will be replaced by two new standing committees. There will be a client relations committee, with a lay majority, and a professional regulation committee, with a professional majority. That should provide a different approach.
 Mr. Prentice : Does my hon. Friend understand my deep disappointment when, in October this year, the Lord Chancellor decided not to proceed with what I thought was settled Labour party policy, to bring in a judicial appointments commission? Is it not true that the Bench is a self-perpetuating oligarchy of public school and Oxbridge-educated white men and that, over the past few years, the number of applicants for silk from ethnic minorities has actually decreased? Should not there be some openness and transparency in this matter? It is not good enough for applications for silk to be decided secretly, in private, with a nod and a wink from the Lord Chancellor; we need more transparency.
32.  Mr. Gordon Prentice : What plans he has to make the appointment of QCs more open. [18010]
 Mr. Brady : I was interested that the Minister chose to link the new deal and the tourism industry. Does he accept that one of the shortcomings of such a link is that many people who work in tourism are seasonally employed and, therefore, may never be unemployed for the six-month period necessary to be party to the new deal? What is he planning to do to address that problem?
 Mr. Huw Edwards  (Monmouth) We do not hope that.
 Mr. Ian Bruce : I am sure that all hon. Members believe in the maxim that justice delayed can be justice denied, but can the Minister look again at personal injuries, which were mentioned by the hon. Member for Hendon (Mr. Dismore)? Where people cannot obtain access to legal aid, they may be prevented from taking action under the civil system, so their cases will not be speeded up. We must remember that in personal injury cases the Government and the social security budget are often the first to be paid out of the settlement. The Government may be being penny wise and pound very foolish.
 Mr. Ieuan Wyn Jones  (Ynys Môn) : Will the Secretary of State perhaps assure the House that, in view of what he has said, the Bill as drafted would not prevent the assembly from moving to a Cabinet system if it wished?
8.  Mr. Ennis : What plans he has for encouraging the improvement of training and qualifications in the tourism industry. [17983]
 Mr. Ennis : Is my hon. Friend aware that tourism is now the single biggest industry in Yorkshire and Humberside, with more than 140,000 employees? Given the industry's significance to Yorkshire and Humberside, did he have an opportunity at the recent new deal conference to assess its response to the Government's initiative?
27.  Mr. Keith Simpson : How many public relations consultants are currently contracted for the millennium experience. [18005]
 Mr. Simpson : On behalf of many hon. Members present, may I say what a joy it is to see the Minister here this afternoon? I know that he is opposed to "excessive accountability", to repeat the words he used before the Culture, Media and Sport Committee, but perhaps he could give us some idea of how much public relations on the millennium experience is costing.
34.  Mr. Laurence Robertson : What discussions he has had with the insurance industry concerning the introduction of conditional fee arrangements. [18012]
 Mr. Robertson : Can the Minister confirm that a significant number of companies will be involved in taking on the arrangements, or are small companies especially likely to find it very difficult to get cover because of insurance companies' lack of interest in the scheme?
 Mr. Laurence Robertson  (Tewkesbury) : Does my hon. Friend accept that the phrase "first past the post" is an inadequate way of describing that voting system?
 741
 Mr. Öpik : I accept that the hon. Gentleman has a pernicious dislike of the proposed proportional representation system and assume that he does not wish to return to the first-past-the-post system, which would prevent the Tories from exercising any influence in Wales for a long time—so what system of proportional representation do he and his party propose for Wales?
 Mr. Öpik : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that my hon. Friend the Member for Brecon and Radnorshire (Mr. Livsey) was referring to giving a higher priority to an integrated transport system for Wales? As someone who represents Wales, my hon. Friend understands how difficult it is for north Wales to connect to the south. Does t+he hon. Gentleman agree that that involves not new roads, but improvements to the existing infrastructure?
 Mr. Öpik : Would the hon. Gentleman accept that, with judicious paring back of quangos, it is possible to release quite large quantities of money? If we replace quango appointees with elected assembly members, we shall not have to give them a large additional income for the same work.
 Mr. Öpik : The Secretary of State makes the point that has been reiterated on many occasions, but apparently it has not been heard by those who stand to gain the most from a change to a fairer system of election. Believe or not, I would welcome the introduction of a system of election of assembly members that offered advantage not only to the minority parties in Wales, but to the non-existent party in Wales, the Conservative party.
 Mr. Öpik : Yes, the hon. Gentleman is correct: it operates from my constituency. Its self-styled leader operates from a pub called The Bell, and hon. Members are most welcome to come to meetings of CASA—Cymru Aeronautics and Space Administration. Contributions from the Government would be most welcome.
 Mr. Öpik : Oh, yes, in the time available.
 Mr. Öpik : The Minister suggests a compromise solution that is far better than a simple closed system, which the public might suspect of being a set of appointments for the party faithful. Nevertheless, we still prefer the concept of an open list, although we can talk about the details at a later stage. I reiterate that my reason for saying this is that we must have a strategically transparent system for electing assembly members, so that no one can believe that certain individuals are there only as a reward for party activities and not primarily for the interests of Wales. 760
 Mr. Öpik : Without entering into too parochial a debate, I can guarantee that, for £14.5 million, I would build it myself.
 Mr. Öpik : The hon. Gentleman's second point is entertaining but entirely illogical, and his first point is perhaps even more amazing. If there is one party that stands to lose its status of importance in Scotland and Wales through the introduction of PR, it is the Liberal Democrat party, and if there is one party that stands to gain from its introduction in Scotland and Wales, it is the Conservative party. Although it might be difficult for some hon. Members to accept, the Liberal Democrats continue to support the change to fair votes out of principle rather than out of self-interest. 758
 Mr. Öpik : I shall give way, but for the last time.
 Mr. Öpik : Let me put the hon. Gentleman out of his misery. He has ignored the fact that, whereas decisions on legislation and policies governing the United Kingdom are tactical, the biggest decision that we make in the United Kingdom is electing a Government, who facilitate everything else. Therefore, when he implies that a constitutional decision is somehow greater, he ignores the fact that the Government facilitate those very constitutional changes. He can continue that line, but he is mixing up the tactical and the strategic. If he continues in that manner, I should very much like to hear—although not in an intervention in this debate—how he wants to
 757
 Mr. Öpik : I shall in a moment, for the last time. Oh—it is the hon. Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis).
 Mr. Öpik : I am guided by the right hon. Gentleman's statement, and I thank him for the clarification—
 Mr. Öpik : I want to make some progress— [Interruption.] [Interruption.] 756
 Mr. Öpik : We could certainly do that in secret, but I shall give way to the Secretary of State to clarify the point.
 Mr. Öpik : I want to move on, as other hon. Members wish to speak.
 Mr. Öpik : The right hon. Gentleman makes an interesting point. The Liberal Democrats are deeply concerned about the limitations on the assembly's powers. We would like it to have primary legislation powers, which would provide a greater opportunity for Wales to fight its corner without endless reference to Westminster.
 Mr. Öpik : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his generous offer, but as a humble, relative new boy to the House, I believe that even the Öpik empire does not extend yet to Scotland. However, I shall pass those comments on to my colleagues north of the border.
 Mr. Öpik : Indeed. I should keeping going until Wales is the wealthiest part of Europe.
 Mr. Öpik : I shall happily give way for, I hope, further good news, this time from the Conservative party.
 Mr. Öpik : Again, the hon. Gentleman makes a very good point. In other words, we have been here before and, at that time, there was no danger to the Barnett formula from the simple virtue of introducing a democratic process.
 Mr. Öpik : I am delighted to hear that. If the public transport system in my neck of the woods were more effective, I might endeavour to turn up. However, as I have a smelly old diesel vehicle, I might have to steer clear, and cycling to Cardiff is perhaps beyond my physical capabilities.
 Mr. Öpik : I welcome this continuing good news from all around me in the Chamber on the Barnett formula. Indeed, I am beginning to fear that Wales will be awash with money, with the changes that have been described.
 Mr. Öpik : I welcome the Secretary of State's offer, and I assure him that we shall take it up. His suggestion is welcomed not just by the Liberal Democrats, but, I am sure, by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and the many other organisations that have lobbied us. I am sure that they will also be willing to contribute.
 Mr. Lembit Öpik  (Montgomeryshire) : The Liberal Democrats are wholly behind the proposal for devolution in Wales. It is courageous of the Government to risk giving Welsh people responsibility for their own future. We believe that this experiment is destined to succeed. 752
 Mr. Öpik : I did not see the interview to which the right hon. Gentleman refers, but I have no doubt that that is true. Who better than Mr. Barnett—[HON. MEMBERS: "Lord Barnett."] I tend not to recognise these heady titles. Coming from the Republic of Estonia, my parents, of course, never had to try to recall such privileges.
 Mr. Öpik : I welcome that suggestion. Contrary to what Conservative Members have said, it is encouraging that, during the Bill's evolution, the process has been inclusive. That happened before the election, and between the election and the publication of the Bill. I hope that it will continue as we approach the election of members of the assembly. Any move that opens discussion and allows all interested parties to participate is a welcome addition to the process of inclusive politics and constructive opposition.
 Mr. Lembit Öpik  (Montgomeryshire) : On the same point, will the representative directly from Wales to Europe have some autonomous decision-making authority in making financial arrangements between Europe, and perhaps regions of Europe, and Wales?
 Mr. Öpik : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Öpik : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that the consultation process was going on before the general election and for some time before the publication of the Bill? It is more constructive to comment inclusively rather than to engage in the destructive criticism that tends to come from the official Opposition.
 Mr. Martin Caton  (Gower) : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me in this important debate about beginning the process of decentralisation in Britain and of democratisation in the governance of Wales. 761
 Mr. Caton : I understand that argument, but I do not agree with it. By imposing a threshold, one defends the status quo. Unfortunately, when we examine the Conservative Government's record, we find that they were prepared to impose thresholds to secure yes votes on some issues. When they were trying to remove council housing from local authority control, they imposed a threshold to shift the balance towards the yes votes. The Conservatives are not consistent in defending the status quo with thresholds.
 Mr. Caton : That is absolutely true, and I thank my hon. Friend for making that point. Indeed, if we are thinking of ballots on grant-maintained status, the very fact that parents of children from feeder schools were excluded from the democratic process is another example of vote rigging by the Conservative party.
 Mr. Caton : My hon. Friend has made the point rather better than I managed to.
 Mr. Caton : The circumstances are very different. When attempts are made to bring about changes that will affect the interests of the members of a building society, who have joined for a purpose, those interests should be protected. That is a very different matter from changes in the general democratic process in a country, whether it be changes in structure—constitutional change—or the election of a Government, a council or Whatever.
 Mr. Caton : I give way to the hon. Member for Worthing, West (Mr. Bottomley).
 Mr. Caton : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. That is another reason why thresholds are so dangerous. If a simple majority vote for a particular course of action and are then denied the ability to take that course by the threshold mechanism, unrest is created.
 Mr. Caton : I am happy to give way next to the Minister.
 Mr. Caton : That is an interesting question, but I have made my case.  [Interruption] [Interruption]
 Mr. Caton : My right hon. Friend is absolutely right. [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh, no, he isn't."] Oh, yes, he is. As my hon. Friends have said, we fought the referendum on a set of rules. We complied with the rules. Everyone knew those rules during the referendum process.
 Mr. Caton : The hon. Gentleman does not seem to understand what those of us who had a vote were voting on. We had, and have, devolved government in Wales, in the form of the Welsh Office. It has considerable powers. All that we voted for on 18 September was to make its powers accountable to the people of Wales. That was rightly a decision for the people of Wales.
 Mr. Caton : I thank the right hon. Gentleman. I hope that the commission and the Secretary of State will consider such an approach.
 Mr. Caton : That is a good point. As for the wider British electorate's involvement, on 1 May the British electorate were of course involved. The Labour party fought the election on the idea that we would offer the people of Wales and of Scotland democratically elected and devolved government. They had their say then.
 Mr. Caton : I entirely accept the logic of that action. The creation of the powerhouse is important also because of the changes on the structural front emanating from the European Union. We need one organisation to cover all the functions previously dealt with by three.
 Mr. Caton : The right hon. Gentleman makes a useful point. 764
 Mr. Caton : I thank my hon. Friend for making that point.
 Mr. Caton : I thank my hon. Friend for that helpful intervention. I still recommend that thought should be given to the social partner approach to consultation with the economic players. Structures for consultation obviously help, but the culture of the assembly will be just as important. The electoral system, fair committee structures and rights to be heard will help to create a democratic body that is more constructive and inclusive and less confrontational than anything we have seen before. 768
 Mr. Caton : I thank my right hon. Friend for those helpful remarks, and I welcome the approach that he is likely to take.
 Mr. Jones : I now know exactly where the hon. Gentleman is coming from. The Secretary of State currently has the power to prioritise road programmes in Wales. My point is that the assembly will have that power,
 747
 Mr. Martyn Jones  (Clwyd, South) : Does the hon. Gentleman not realise that the Welsh Local Government Association whole-heartedly supports the assembly?
 Mr. Martyn Jones  (Clwyd, South) : Unlike the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Syms), I think that this is a great day for democracy and a great day for Wales, as were I May and 18 September.
 Mr. Jones : I agree absolutely. The point is that the assembly will make those decisions whereas, at the moment, there are conflicting priorities for the Secretary of State, who makes the decisions. We have suffered from the fact that, until now, the Secretary of State for Wales has not been Welsh. On one occasion, a Secretary of State of ill fame preferred not to visit Wales. I do not know how he could have known whether the A470 down to south Wales needed to be improved.
 Mr. Jones : The hon. Gentleman is obviously unaware of the present situation. I forgive him, as he is a Member for England. He could not be a Member for Wales, as there are no Conservative Members representing Welsh constituencies. The Welsh Office currently deals with matters such as the hon. Gentleman describes. The funding is available and is run by the Secretary of State for Wales. The assembly would take over the role of the Secretary of State for Wales. If the hon. Gentleman does not know that, I am sorry. He should know it.
 Mr. Jones : That is a good point—it will be up to the assembly. However, the hon. Gentleman is putting words into the mouth of the hon. Member for Brecon and Radnorshire (Mr. Livsey), who was not talking about vast new road building. We need the dualling of a few roads
 737
 Mr. Jones : Get them to work might be more appropriate. 736 "We must make the process of government green. Environmental considerations must be integrated into all our decisions, regardless of sector. They must be in at the start, not bolted on later."
 Mr. Jones : Yes. I am rather surprised that the hon. Member for North Essex (Mr. Jenkin), who was, I thought, educating the hon. Member for West Dorset (Mr. Letwin), did not know that. It shows an even greater depth of ignorance if an hon. Member on the Front Bench does not know that. Of course there is no shadow Secretary of State for Wales, so perhaps we cannot blame the Opposition for their ignorance. 738
 Mr. Martyn Jones : The hon. Gentleman's original question was not clear but he has clarified it, perhaps with some education from his Front-Bench colleagues. I was trying to point out that road programme spending priorities will be in the hands of the assembly, which might decide to take money from other sectors of the Welsh Office budget. My point was that it might want to improve one part of the A470 rather than another. The hon. Gentleman's point is separate from that.
 Mr. Michael Fabricant  (Lichfield) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. The House will have noted that the questions to the Minister without Portfolio started three minutes late, and that you allowed them to continue for three minutes after they were timed to close. Given that the Minister said before the Select Committee on the subject of secrecy concerning the dome:
 "I would not call it secrecy, I would call it an inhibition", "excessive accountability at the expense of them getting on with their work",
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The hon. Member for Worthing, West is making accusations. Interventions are perfectly within the rules of the House—that is why I have allowed them.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. The hon. Member for Worthing, West (Mr. Bottomley) is being far too noisy.
 Mr. Nick Ainger  (West Carmarthen and South Pembrokeshire) : The hon. Gentleman has just come in.
 Mr. Hawkins : Does the Secretary of State accept that no one in this country, even on the Labour Benches,
 656
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Mr. Nick Raynsford) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Woodspring (Dr. Fox) on securing the debate, and on his speech. I know he will understand that my response must necessarily avoid comment on the details of the case, because the Secretary of State no longer has any jurisdiction in the matter. Indeed, the legal processes in the case are complete. However, I want to make it clear at the outset that the Government recognise and understand the real concerns raised locally by quarrying and its impact on the environment. Successive Governments have sought to respond to those concerns, and to achieve a sensible balance between the interests of the economy and the construction industry and those of the environment. That is reflected in primary legislation. 773 "fundamentally effect the economic structure of the operation." 774 "would prevent the possibility that a long high peak in production could lead to very high levels of traffic over a protracted period." "I am satisfied, therefore, that there is a need for a condition preventing the distribution of stone at times when the lorries are most likely to come into conflict with other road users." "In my experience, the peak time for arrival at schools is short and well defined. On the specific evidence, it seems to me that a period of restriction from 8.30 to 9.15 would not be unreasonable". "No vehicle in excess of 1 tonne laden weight shall enter or leave the quarry except between the hours of 07.30 am—08.30 am, 09.15 am—3.00 pm and 4.00 pm—6.00 pm Mondays to Fridays inclusive and 08.00 am—1.00 pm on Saturdays. These restrictions shall not apply at times of the year when both the East Clevedon Primary School and the Clevedon Secondary School are not in session." 775 776
 Mr. Raynsford : I regret that I have to disappoint the hon. Gentleman. As I have made clear, the matter has now reached the end of the process in which the Secretary of State has any involvement. The legal processes are terminated. The option was there for people who were unhappy with the decision to challenge it in the High Court under the agreed procedures. No such challenge was made. As I have stressed, the legal avenues are closed and there is no further opportunity for the Government to take any role in this case.
 Mr. Raynsford : As I have made clear, the inspector covered in considerable detail issues of traffic. I have highlighted one or two of the passages in his report to show that he considered matters that the hon. Gentleman implied might have been overlooked. Therefore, the matter has been given thorough consideration. However, if the hon. Gentleman wishes to write to me, I will consider any matters relating to hazards that may exist on local highways, and talk to my right hon. and hon. Friends who have responsibility for those matters.
 Mr. Nick St. Aubyn  (Guildford) : If the Conservatives are so out of touch with the views of the Welsh people, perhaps the hon. Gentleman will explain why the approach that we took to the Welsh Assembly proposal chimed with that of half of those who voted in the referendum?
 Mr. Evans : The hon. Gentleman claims that the referendum was a great success and talks about regionalisation of the United Kingdom with assemblies everywhere. Does he not realise that the referendum was an appalling fiasco and failure in Wales, which is why the Government have derailed the assembly programme in England?
 Mr. Evans : Is not the hon. Gentleman missing the point? Surely the issue is not whether Welsh farmers should riot in Cardiff or in London. If the Government were listening to the farmers of Wales, they would not need to riot anywhere.
 Mr. Evans : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Evans : No doubt it operates from the hon. Gentleman's constituency.
 Mr. Evans : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : On what the Secretary of State said earlier, does the right hon. Gentleman accept the supremacy and sovereignty of this Westminster Parliament, even with the Welsh Assembly and the Scottish Parliament?
3.  Mr. Waterson : What organisations representing English tourism he has met since 1 May. [17977]
 Mr. Waterson : I thank the Minister for his answer. Does he agree that tourism makes a massive contribution to the United Kingdom economy, bringing in more than £100 million in my constituency of Eastbourne alone? Does he also agree that it is now recognised by everyone that it was an appalling blunder not to include the word "tourism" in the name of his Department?
 Mr. Norman Baker  (Lewes) : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker. As I am a new Member of Parliament, can you give me some guidance on a matter of operation within the House? The Minister
 670 The Times
 Mr. Letwin : Now I understand the hon. Gentleman's point, which brings me directly to the effects of clause 80. "The Secretary of State shall from time to time make payments to the Assembly out of money provided by Parliament of such amounts as he may determine." 748
 Mr. Letwin : Yes. I do not wish to suggest that I believe that the objective is entirely clear in the case of Scottish devolution—which I oppose—but I think that it is at least clear that, in the case of Scotland, there is an intention to give a Scottish Parliament something approaching a national status. Those of us who violently object to that proposal object to it on those grounds. 749
 Mr. Letwin : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman; I do not want to delay him unduly. Does he realise that an enormous hole has now been blown in his argument? If, as the Secretary of State has assured us, the Welsh Assembly will not have the slightest control over the matter, how on earth will it help the Welsh people, in respect of beef on the bone and other issues, to have a Welsh Assembly?
 Mr. Letwin : I am grateful for that clarification. I remain wholly unpersuaded. The Secretary of State already has such discretion in respect of the trunk road programme. The assembly will either be able to reprioritise, compared with the present, or it will not. As far as I can see, it will be able to reprioritise only if it deprives another element of the same total budget.
 Mr. Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : I wish mainly to address the implications of clause 80, but before the hon. Member for Clwyd, South (Mr. Jones) leaves his place, I would like to discuss a point that he made of which I have yet to be persuaded.
 Mr. Letwin rose—
 Mr. Letwin : I may be in genuine error, but it would be helpful to understand the point. Is the hon. Gentleman claiming that some sum of money, which is currently available to the Secretary of State, would be available to the Welsh Assembly for a trunk road programme, and that it would not include money that would otherwise go to local authorities in rate support grant?
 Mr. Oliver Letwin  (West Dorset) : I am following the hon. Gentleman's remarks with interest, as he is dealing with a subject of great importance. Perhaps he can explain something to us. In the case of a trunk road, where a specific allocation is not made by the Department of Transport of the United Kingdom to the Welsh Assembly, how could funding for it be allocated by the Welsh Assembly, except by top-slicing the local authorities?
 Mr. Paterson : The hon. Gentleman says that constitutional change should be made by majority. Does he agree that the British constitution belongs to all the people, and that it is a denial of democracy to have excluded 85 per cent. of the electorate from the referendum?
 Mr. Owen Paterson  (North Shropshire)   rose—
 Mr. Tipping : Does my hon. Friend accept that what is proposed is merely the son of the Solicitors Complaints
 665
 Mr. Patrick Nicholls  (Teignbridge) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. You will be aware of the crisis in the agricultural industry, which has been greatly exacerbated by the Government's announcement about meat on the bone. Given that the only way in which that crisis can be dealt with is by funds being secured from Europe, and in view of the concern that has been expressed to me over the weekend by farmers in my constituency, have you had any indication from the Government that they intend to make a statement to the House—first, about the crisis itself, and secondly, about when the application for European funds might be made?
 Mr. Peter Bottomley  (Worthing, West)   rose—
 Mr. Bottomley : I have not. 762
 Mr. Bottomley : The hon. Gentleman will agree that the Welsh assembly—
 Mr. Peter Bottomley : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. This is the third or fourth time that the Government's Front-Bench spokesmen have helped to pad out the speech by the hon. Member for Gower (Mr. Caton). Is it conventional to provide such assistance
 767
 Mr. Hain : For the benefit of the hon. Member for Worthing, West (Mr. Bottomley), I was seeking to draw to my hon. Friend's attention the fact that clause 64 addresses precisely his concern that business should be consulted. We have issued an open invitation to business, the voluntary sector and several other interest groups in Wales to submit their agendas to my right hon. Friend's advisory committee—and thereafter to the statutory commission—to explain what relationship they want with the assembly. It is an inclusive process, which will extend to the opening of the assembly in 1999.
 Mr. Hain : I draw my hon. Friend's attention generally to clause 64(3)—he need not consult it in detail unless he wishes to do so—which makes it clear that business will need to be consulted in terms of regulatory appraisals of any regulations that the assembly might introduce.
 Mr. Hain : Parliament decided in the summer to hold an advisory, consultative referendum. Conservative Members have missed the point, which is that Parliament retained its sovereignty in the matter. It decided not on a binding referendum but on a consultative one. It therefore makes perfect logical sense to require a simple majority—which is what it was.
 Mr. Hain : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for giving way, especially as he has been so tolerant of interventions. If—as is likely to be the case both for the Labour party and for his own—the selection of candidates in the list is determined by one person, one vote among the electorate, does the hon. Gentleman agree that that
 759
 Mr. Hain : May I remind the House that, today, the Chief Secretary to the Treasury published a statement reaffirming the Government's commitment to the Barnett formula? Were it to be revised, in all likelihood Wales would benefit, because, under the Conservative Government between 1979 and 1997, Wales's gross domestic product fell relative to the English average, as a result of which, in any revision, Wales's overall block assessment is well placed to be uprated. Of course, the Barnett formula covers the percentage change in the block, not the total block, as it were.
 Mr. Hain : I am glad that my hon. Friend mentioned tourism, which is vital in her part of Wales. Does she agree with me that the Welsh Assembly will provide a platform for Wales to market itself in Europe, Britain and internationally, which will give additional benefits to areas such as hers, and will ensure that Wales is put on the map in a way that it never has been before?
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Peter Hain) : Is not the hon. Gentleman overlooking the fact that 40 representatives on the assembly—the majority—will be elected directly and will be accountable to their electors? Is there not merit in the fact that in south Wales, for example, the Conservatives will be topped up and will receive representation on the assembly through the additional members system? In mid-Wales, Labour will probably receive representation that it would not have otherwise. Is there not merit in all the parties receiving greater representation in proportion to their total vote? That did not happen to the Conservatives on 1 May.
 Mr. Mandelson : I am glad my hon. Friend asks that question. One of the important conditions that my right hon. Friend the Prime Minister set out when we agreed to go ahead with the Conservative party's excellent idea for the millennium experience was that there should be a national programme that would reach out to all parts of the country and to all the national regions within the United Kingdom. The ticketing and transport arrangements we develop will ensure that people can afford to come and that they will have the facilities to come to the millennium dome at Greenwich from every part of the country, wherever they live.
 Mr. Mandelson : Given that the millennium experience and the construction of the dome was the Conservative Government's idea and began when the Conservatives were in power, I do not quite understand the right hon. Gentleman knocking and log rolling. When I took over ministerial responsibility in June this year, there was no content to speak of whatsoever.
 Mr. Mandelson : I am grateful to the right hon. Gentleman. The millennium experience will be a great success, because it will be an opportunity to bring together the whole country. It will also give us a chance to pause and reflect on our society and our country as we enter the new century and the new millennium. He is also right to say that there will a considerable legacy from the investment we are making. It is important that we should remember the reclamation from waste and dereliction of a big slice of our capital city, the construction of the new millennium village community on the Greenwich peninsula and the tremendous transport infrastructure, all of which will be permanent legacies of our investment.
 Mr. Mandelson : I have already said that no outside public relations firms are contracted to the New Millennium Experience Company. Of course it has members of staff who are working to promote that experience—as my hon. Friend would expect.
 Mr. Mandelson : That is an excellent idea. The contents of the millennium experience, the dome, will attract people of all ages, although I suspect that playing surfball, the 21st century sport, will have an especial appeal to young people. In addition to forming a new millennium council to tap into a wide range of popular opinion about the experience, I intend to form a junior board or a junior council so that young people, who will enjoy the experience so much, will have an opportunity to plug right into the planning of the experience.
 The Minister without Portfolio (Mr. Peter Mandelson) : None.
 Sir Raymond Powell : I agree—of course we want the minority parties to have a place on the assembly. However, those parties must do what the Labour party has done over the years. The Labour party was in a minority position for years—if one reads the history of this place, one will see that the Liberals were in the majority for a long time. The minority parties should earn their places with the electorate—they should not just expect their members to be elected under a system that is far from democratic. Under the PR system, people may be elected using lists that are controlled by the powers that be. 702
 Sir Raymond Powell : With all due respect to my hon. Friend, let me remind him that I am emphasising the need to examine the figures, and analyse who voted and who supported the Government's proposals. If we want co-operation, that does not just mean co-operation between members of different political parties or between Members of Parliament speaking in the House. 700
 Sir Raymond Powell : I tend to share the views of my hon. Friend the Member for Rhondda (Mr. Rogers). We have gone through the figures and acknowledged the importance of analysing them in great depth and detail. I am a democrat, but I was disappointed by the size of the majority, as I wanted the proposals to be accepted by a larger majority in Wales, similar to the majority enjoyed in Scotland, so that we could go forward knowing that we had the support of a larger number of people. 701
 Sir Raymond Powell : In a moment. 699
 Sir Raymond Powell  (Ogmore) : I am very pleased to be called to speak in this historic debate. The Principality has waited 18 long years for a debate on devolution for Wales. I should like to put on record the work undertaken back in the 1970s by the likes of Emrys Jones, the secretary of the Welsh Labour party; my right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney-General; Michael Foot; and the noble Lord Callaghan, who devoted their time as part of a Labour Government to trying to get devolution on the statute book as long ago as 1978.
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan : The right hon. Gentleman is in a purple patch now.
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan  (Cardiff, West) : It is the number of seats in Swansea guildhall.
 Mr. Morgan : I shall give way first to the hon. Gentleman. Later, I shall give way to the hon. Member for Meirionnydd Nant Conwy (Mr. Llwyd).
 Mr. Morgan : That is an evolving issue. If they are mostly Welsh beef farmers and if they are as broke as most of them claim to be, they will be unable to afford to come to London, so they will tend to visit Cardiff. Instead of stopping Irish lorries, they will want to have a big punch-up, in the figurative sense, at the assembly. They will say, "You must damn well do something about the crisis in our industry or next year there will be no beef industry left." That is a good classical example for us to think about. Where would they go in future?
 Mr. Morgan : Dear, dear, dear. I give way to the hon. Member for Meirionnydd Nant Conwy.
 Mr. Morgan : I am sorry if the hon. Gentleman has mistaken my remarks. I am using the example of the farmers to show what a parliamentary assembly is for. I am surprised if, given his party, the hon. Gentleman does not think that an assembly will be the focus for people to express their dissent, and if he does not understand that the fundamental first function of a parliamentary assembly or a Parliament is to be the place where people go to petition for the redress of grievances. Yes, legislation will be passed, yes, there will be debate, but the assembly must also be the place to take a deputation or delegation and a crisis, which may boil over. 731
 Mr. Morgan : Sorry—in making my predictions about the level of support that the Conservatives will achieve, I am speaking as an ex-academic political scientist and psephologist. 726 727 728 The Observer 729
 Mr. Morgan : I certainly do not deny that there will be periods of stress in the relationship between any devolved parliament and the supreme central Parliament. Looking ahead over the next quarter century, I would never deny the likelihood of a few punch-ups and hot arguments between Westminster and a devolved parliament, but what does the hon. Gentleman think happens in other countries with devolved parliaments? What does he think happens in Germany in respect of decisions about what the lánder governments should and should not be allowed to do? 725
 Mr. Morgan : That is what Parliaments are for, in a way—to defuse tensions. People should think, "That is the seat of power. If we go there, we can get something done that will stop us all going down the Swanee and all being bankrupt in a few years' time."
 Mr. Morgan : In a minute.
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan  (Cardiff, West) : My hon. Friend the Member for Rhondda (Mr. Rogers) was sitting in front of me earlier and he suggested that if I spoke I should declare an interest as I have expressed the intention to stand for the Welsh Assembly. I am not sure whether I will be the only Labour Member to do so. Some Opposition Members may do likewise, but obviously Conservative Members cannot declare such an interest, although some ex-Conservative Members, seeking re-entry into politics, may do so. I believe that some have expressed that intention. 723 724
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan : Would it not be for the benefit of the House if the hon. Gentleman commented on the fact that the Barnett formula was originally invented in the late 1970s to cope with the anticipated devolution, which never took place because of the referendum result in 1979? Therefore, it would be the height of absurdity to claim that democratic devolution is a threat to the Barnett formula, as that is what the formula was devised to accommodate in the late 1970s.
 Mr. Richard Livsey  (Brecon and Radnorshire) : The Labour party originally proposed an assembly with 80 members. Subsequently, that number has been reduced by 25 per cent., following an agreement within the party. Can the Secretary of State enlighten us as to how that occurred?
 Mr. Richard Livsey  (Brecon and Radnorshire) : I welcome the opportunity to speak on the Bill. I gladly follow the hon. Member for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson), who, with enthusiasm for his city, shows that there would be a warm welcome if the assembly were located there. They are welcoming people in Swansea, and I understand why he said what he did. Only time will tell whether his party will sort out the problems of the assembly's location. Cardiff has strong claims, but the argument cannot go on for ever. 716
 Mr. Livsey : I welcome the Secretary of State's comments. Although I regard him as a reasonable man, perhaps a future holder of his office will not take the same view. We shall have to examine the matter.
 Mr. Livsey : I am sure that the hon. Gentleman will have noted that it was the Minister of Agriculture who made the announcement the other day. He has the power, under primary legislation, to make such orders. I do not foresee the Welsh Assembly, which will have only secondary legislation powers, being able to do something like that.
 Mr. Livsey : I did not notice the hon. Gentleman making determined efforts to put a clause into the Referendums (Scotland and Wales) Bill to create a threshold, so ensuring that the principle that he is advancing now was part of the referendum. As he failed to do that, his argument falls flat on its face. "Our standpoint is certainly Tory. We are convinced that a measure of devolution to Scotland of power over her domestic affairs is essential. In every meaningful sense except the exercise of control over her internal affairs, Scotland is a country: to apply the current jargon of 'region' is inaccurate." 717
 Mr. Livsey : That is a fair question. The Scottish Office, for example—I am very familiar with the hon. Gentleman's country of Scotland—has spent a lot of money on the A9 from Perth to Inverness. It would be wonderful if we had such a road—not a great big motorway or dual carriageway, but going fairly straight—right up through the spine of Wales. I could take him through my constituency, and he would be quite dizzy by the end of his journey; and that trip would be only in my constituency. From my constituency, I can travel to Scotland—on the road system in England—more quickly than I can reach Anglesey. We do not have that infrastructure in Wales.
 Mr. Livsey : I do not want to go into too much detail in a Second Reading debate, but we can debate the matter further in Committee. Several points might emerge in that debate.
 Mr. Livsey : I give way for the last time, because I have spoken for too long.
 Mr. Livsey : I understand where the Secretary of State is coming from, but it is possible to have various members on an open list from different wings of a political party, on which the electorate might like to pronounce. It gives them more freedom of action when they vote under the additional member system. We must investigate various aspects of that in Committee. 719
 Mr. Livsey : We certainly discussed the matter—[HON. MEMBERS: "Oh."] We were invited to the Welsh Office, as were members of Plaid Cymru, and we discussed the matter. The Conservative party did not take up the offer—which is unfortunate, but a statement of fact. 722
 Mr. Richard Shepherd  (Aldridge-Brownhills) : How, in all fairness, can the Secretary of State claim that the proposals in the White Paper were endorsed by the referendum result? When given the opportunity to vote on and endorse those proposals, 75 per cent. of the Welsh electorate declined to do so. The vote in favour of the proposals was fractional, and was easily swamped by the many Welsh residents in constituencies such as mine and others throughout the west midlands and the rest of the country. The referendum provided no validation of the proposals. The only validation that the right hon. Gentleman can claim is that provided by the general election—which is a valid point.
 Mr. Spring : Does the hon. Gentleman recognise that the pursuit of excellence must be at the heart of encouraging young people into greater sports participation? Why have the Government reneged on the previous Government's commitment to extending the sportsmark scheme to primary schools?
 Mr. Maclennan : Does the Minister think that the millennium experience's impact on the country's cultural life will last as long as did the outcome of the great exhibition and the post-war south bank developments, with which his distinguished grandfather was associated? If he takes the view that the benefits could be as long lasting, does he agree that public relations consultants are unnecessary as long as he holds his present job?
 Mr. Sheldon : I welcome the British museum's decision not to introduce admission charges for the time being. Can my right hon. Friend assure me that what he has said today will provide the means for other museums to remain free of admission charges in the years to come?
 Mr. Syms : The hon. Gentleman said that he believes that the Secretary of State is a reasonable man. Did the Secretary of State consult him on appointing the Liberal Democrat member of the advisory committee? If so, in what way?
 Mr. Robert Syms  (Poole) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr.Robert syms (poole) : Unlike many of the contributors to the debate, I find this a sad day because, as a Conservative and a Unionist, I believe that it is the start, not the end, of many years of argument. 732
 Mr. Syms : Yes, and I suspect that the association, controlled as it is by the Labour party, would. 733
 Mr. Syms : That is a good point. There is some scope for saving small sums of money from the quangos but, as the hon. Member for Cardiff, West (Mr. Morgan) told us, the running costs of the assembly will be £17 million a year. He spoke of property developers, he spoke of 10 times average running costs—I could not help thinking that there must be other decent purposes in the Principality to which the money could be devoted. Already in the debate, Members have mentioned, for instance, a spine road through Wales and assistance to farmers. I wonder whether that is the best use of resources, although I accept that it is possible to reorder priorities.
 Mr. Syms : I do apologise.
 Mr. Syms  I do. In a former life, I served on Wiltshire county council. In the course of certain negotiations, we once attended a meeting in Cardiff with Welsh local authorities to discuss pay increases. I had the distinct feeling that my right hon. Friend the Member for Wokingham (Mr. Redwood) was not the most popular person in the Principality.
 Mr. Syms : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Syms : I understand what the Secretary of State is saying—it will be a party, rather than an electoral, arrangement. 735
 Mr. Corbett : Did my hon. Friend hear Alistair Cooke's "Letter from America" yesterday? Will he
 651
 Mr. Davies : I trust that, like me, the hon. Gentleman recognises the sovereignty of this Parliament. Parliament
 672 [Interruption.]
 The Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Ron Davies) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time.
 Mr. Davies : My hon. Friend the Member for Cardiff, West (Mr. Morgan) mentions a novel formula that has not been incorporated in the Bill. As my hon. Friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney (Mr. Rowlands) will know, the figure 60 was arrived at by a policy commission of the Labour party, which examined the electoral arrangements for the assembly. There was consultation in the Labour party. 676
 Mr. Davies : It is no good the right hon. Member for Devizes pouting and shaking his head. I am making it clear that that is what I want to do. If he doubts my good intentions, I suggest that he uses the time-honoured process of going through the usual channels. He will see then that I am sincere about wanting a reasonable debate on the Floor and in Standing Committee. I hope that he will come out of his shell, join the latter part of the 20th century and help us to prepare for the new democracy that we are about to create in Wales. I know that that is an unlikely prospect, but subject to that, the Government will table a motion at the end of Second Reading to achieve it. 675
 Mr. Davies : My hon. Friend is right to make that point. It was clear from day one of the debate on the Referendums (Scotland and Wales) Bill that the Conservative party was determined to delay and frustrate, and to use every tactic to wreck it. That measure sought only to ask the people of Wales what they thought about the proposition. The attachment of the Conservatives to democracy was so passing that they did not even want that measure to pass.
 Mr. Davies : No, I am not. The right hon. Gentleman knows that that is not what my hon. Friend the Member for Swansea, East (Mr. Anderson) was saying. I have made it clear that I want the Bill to receive proper consideration. I want the important clauses to be taken on the Floor and an opportunity for detailed examination in Standing Committee.
 Mr. Davies : That is one of the matters that I want to take up later in my remarks. I hope that the hon. Gentleman will forgive me if I do not take up the matter now. The advisory committee that we shall be setting up will have a remit to examine the question. There will be a statutory requirement on the assembly to have a committee for the north, to ensure that the particular concerns of north Wales are taken into account.
 Mr. Davies : It is for the House to decide its own procedures. The question of precedent is not one at which I baulk. A precedent is merely something that we do for the first time. As far as I am concerned, this is the first time that a Government of Wales Bill has been introduced by the Government. If it means that we must change our procedures to get the proposed legislation through the House, that suits me. 674
 Mr. Davies : At this stage, I cannot promise the hon. Gentleman that the assembly will be at Ewloe. I recognise that he has consistently advanced the argument that he set out in his question. He has always drawn attention to the difficulty of communications between the north and the south. 673
 Mr. Davies : Yes, I shall give way to the hon. Gentleman, but I am anxious to proceed.
 Mr. Ron Davies : The hon. Gentleman mentioned clause 53 and queried whether committee chairmen will
 721 "shall…be elected so as to secure that, as far as is practicable, the balance of the parties in the Assembly is reflected in the membership of the committee."
 Mr. Ron Davies : The debate on open lists was raised in the context of the European elections. There was an argument that electors had the opportunity to cast only one vote, so there was some criticism that they would be coerced into voting for the party rather than having the opportunity to vote for a preferred candidate within the list. I understand that argument as it relates to the European elections. [Interruption.] 718
 Mr. Ron Davies : That is a fair point; and it is a matter of judgment. My view was that the Secretary of State is answerable to the House, and that the commission is answerable to no one other than the Secretary of State.
 720
 Mr. Ron Davies : Perhaps I could clarify the genuine point that was debated between my hon. Friend and the hon. Member for North Essex (Mr. Jenkin). In the White Paper we proposed a statutory commission. Of course, that cannot be created until after Royal Assent, which will be in July next year. To ensure a proper process of consultation between now and Royal Assent, I have created the advisory committee, which will be representative of all interests in Wales. It is not in the White Paper: it is an innovation and a genuine attempt to find a broader base on which to construct the working arrangements and the standing orders. It is in addition to the consultation that the Welsh Office is undertaking with all interests in Wales. We are consulting the Welsh Local Government Association, the Wales Council for Voluntary Action, the CBI, the Institute of Welsh Affairs and the Green Alliance. The genuine process of consultation goes far beyond anything that was envisaged in the White Paper.
 Mr. Ron Davies : Where has that been done before?
 Mr. Davies : It is a long and complicated story about internal Labour party politics.
 Mr. Davies : I am happy to detain the House, but I fear, Madam Speaker, that you and others would berate me if I did. 677
 Mr. Davies : The order under clause 22 is not intended to be comprehensive, nor is it final. The right
 678
 Mr. Davies : We discussed that matter in some detail when we prepared the White Paper, in which the arguments are set out. There have been discussions in the Welsh Office and with the civil service unions. Day-to-day reporting responsibilities for the civil service will remain with the permanent secretary or with whichever member of the civil service carries that responsibility in the future. The day-to-day direction of political strategy that civil servants should follow will be set in future by the assembly, and not by the Secretary of State as it is at the moment.
 Mr. Davies : Some functions will be retained by the Secretary of State, but they are few and they are specified in the Bill. I am sure that that is not a matter of disagreement between my right hon. Friend and myself. However, in the transfer order, which will probably be presented in March 1999, I intend to transfer at that point the overwhelming majority of the powers that currently reside with me. There may be a need for some tidying up afterwards, but the policy is that there should be a transfer.
 Mr. Ron Davies   rose—
 Mr. Ron Davies : Is the right hon. Gentleman accusing me of it?
 Mr. Ron Davies : As the right hon. Gentleman has obviously taken umbrage, may I invite him to cast back his mind to a telephone conversation that he and I had in October this year? I had similar conversations with the right hon. Member for Caernarfon (Mr. Wigley) and the hon. Member for Brecon and Radnorshire (Mr. Livsey), as representatives of their parties.
 Mr. Ron Davies : In the spirit of inclusivity, let me ask the right hon. Gentleman another question. If I extend to him another invitation to discuss with me in the Welsh Office the way in which we should conduct Welsh Office business, will he accept the invitation this time, unlike last time?
 Mr. Ron Davies : I am sorry to intervene, but the hon. Gentleman is so completely misinformed. There is no reason at all why the members on the list should come, as he is suggesting, from smoke-filled rooms and party lists. I would hope that my party, which has not made its decision on the matter, will decide its list system on the basis of a ballot of ordinary individual members. I have no doubt that this process will be followed by other political parties. There is no reason to suggest that it will be done by some stitch-up.
 Mr. Ron Davies : Get them back to work!
 Mr. Ron Davies : I have listened to the hon. Gentleman with care because he is trying to make a rational case. He will not be surprised to hear me say that I do not necessarily agree with it. He is talking about tensions in the system. Is he aware of the sort of tensions there were while the right hon. Member for Wokingham (Mr. Redwood) was Secretary of State? Not one local authority in Wales was in political agreement with him; the overwhelming majority of Welsh Members of Parliament were completely opposed to what he was doing; he was reorganising Welsh local government; and—crucially—he returned £110 million of the Welsh block to the Treasury because he wanted to fulfil a political agenda that had nothing to do with Wales. Doeshe hon. Gentleman understand the tensions that that can cause?
 Mr. Ron Davies : My hon. Friend the Member for Wrexham (Dr. Marek) does not need my invitation to express his view. I welcome the comments by the hon. Member for Montgomeryshire (Mr. Öpik) about the Government's inclusive style. Just before Christmas, there will be a meeting of the Green Alliance which, as he
 753
 Mr. Ron Davies : The hon. Gentleman will recall that, when I opened the debate, I said that the Government intended to table amendments. One of those will most certainly place a duty on the assembly to have regard to the principle of sustainability. We are currently consulting, and I invite the hon. Gentleman to let us have his observations. If he wishes to make written submissions on behalf of his party, we shall consider them and include them, if we can, in a new clause or an amendment.
 Mr. Ron Davies : My right hon. Friend the Member for Llanelli (Mr. Davies) makes an interesting and persuasive case. If powers to make orders relating to animal or
 755
 Mr. Ron Davies : Before the hon. Gentleman leaves the issue of the Conservatives and the electoral system, is it his understanding that, under the present arrangements, it is most unlikely that the Conservative party would ever get elected according to constituency selection? Does he agree that it is only under the additional list system that the Conservatives are likely to have any representation in Wales?
 Mr. Ron Davies : I encourage my hon. Friend to continue to be robust in rejecting the arguments of Conservative Members. Will he reflect on the fact that those arguments would have more credibility now if they had been advanced during the passage of the Referendums (Scotland and Wales) Bill? Conservative Members had every opportunity to table amendments to ensure that there was a threshold. Will my hon. Friend reflect on the fact that, because Conservative Members refused to do so then, the arguments that they are making now are spurious?
 Mr. Ron Davies : I want to ensure that my hon. Friend fully understands the rationale of the Government's position, which is quite compatible with the Labour policy that he was instrumental in forming. It is a central requisite of the devolution policy that the assembly should be fully empowered to deal with all the public bodies to which my hon. Friend has referred. In the case of the Welsh Development Agency, for example, the assembly will be fully empowered to carry forward any further changes. 765
 Mr. Ron Davies : For the sake of clarity, I assure my hon. Friend that the advisory committee that will precede the work of the statutory commission will have a very wide remit. It can certainly consider the question whether the assembly operates on the basis of a Cabinet system or a local government system. I await the outcome with interest. 766
 Mr. Fearn : The Minister visited my constituency not too long ago when he visited the north-west, and from what I hear he did a good job. When he met the various tourist boards, did he talk about the minimum wage and whether it would apply on a regional basis? Many small hoteliers and people running boarding houses are very worried about the minimum wage. Many others are in favour of it, but the forum needs to discuss regionalism and how the minimum wage will work out. I am sure that the Minister has an answer.
 Mr. Hughes : I commend the Secretary of State for the way that he worked for the referendum result, as I did, in my modest way. One of the things that troubled me and made me think that the result that the right hon. Gentleman and I wanted might not be achieved was that people in mid and north Wales felt that the assembly might be more remote than they would wish. It would be helpful if the Secretary of State could address the ways in which to ensure that the assembly is not seen as a south or south-east Wales-based institution, and is clearly seen instead to be an assembly for the whole of Wales, accessible to all and available for all to participate in the democratic process.
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Hughes : I hope that during the next two to three years the Minister will not simply wait and see what happens. He must be aware that there is huge dissatisfaction with the performance of many solicitors. A Consumers Association report revealed widespread incompetence. Many of us have constituents who complain, with justification, that either they are not dealt with properly or they get very poor remedies. Can the hon. Gentleman assure the House that in this Parliament the Government will seriously consider establishing an independent inspectorate of legal services so that we can end the policing of solicitors by solicitors, headed by another solicitor?
35.  Mr. Simon Hughes : What plans his Department has to review the supervision of solicitors; and if he will make a statement. [18013]
 Mr. Timms : I wonder whether my hon. Friend is aware that the millennium dome is already a spectacular site
 660 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Dalyell : What access will be made available for Scotland and the north of England to the millennium experience?
 Mr. Dalyell : Whom are we talking about? Some of us are in the dark.
 Mr. Dalyell : Will the right hon. Gentleman give up these silly points, and bear in mind the fact that the first First Secretary was Rab Butler?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : Some of my constituents are involved in this matter, because they are employed at the headquarters of the Forestry Commission in Edinburgh. What is likely to be the nature of those amendments, and what changes does the Secretary of State envisage in the proposals relating to forestry in Wales, Scotland and England?
 Mr. Dalyell : I have always understood the right hon. Gentleman's argument for independence, but will he confirm that, had the Wales Act 1978 come into force, it would in no way have defended Wales against Mrs. Thatcher?
 Mr. Dalyell : The right hon. Gentleman's statement is news to us. As far as I know, there has been no assurance that Ministers responsible to an assembly in Edinburgh could speak in the Council of Ministers for the whole of the UK. Is he sure that such assurances have been given?
 Mr. Dalyell : I hope that the hon. Gentleman will forgive me for intruding on his speech, but he said just a moment ago that the road system in Wales was like that in a third-world country. I do not know whether that is true—
 Mr. Dalyell : If it is true and it is to be put right, may an outsider ask where the money will come from? It is all part of the same kitty of resources.
 Mr. Dalyell : Will the hon. Gentleman clarify his reference to Scotland?
 Mr. Rowlands : Clauses 105 and 106 explicitly state that all Community obligations are binding on the assembly, although the assembly may disagree with those obligations profoundly. Does the right hon. Gentleman accept clauses 105 and 106?
 Mr. Rowlands : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend for assisting the House. What statutory functions, and therefore what budget, will the Secretary of State have after the transfer of functions to the assembly?
 Mr. Ted Rowlands  (Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney) : Will my right hon. Friend explain how we arrived at the figure 60? On what calculation was it based?
 Mr. Tim Boswell  (Daventry) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I understand that today you have received no request from the Paymaster General to make a statement on the interaction of his personal finances, including his interest in the £12 million offshore Orion trust, with his duties as a Treasury Minister preparing to remove the comparatively modest tax privileges of many of those with TESSAs and PEPs. 669
 Mr. Loughton : That is all very well, but as my grandmother would say, what has that to do with the price of fish? Does the Secretary of State agree with me and with the directors of our major museums, who believe in the principle that free admission to our museums is the cornerstone of democratic access to our cultural inheritance? If he does not agree, does that represent yet another people's U-turn by this Government of one principle in the interests of budgetary expediency? Will the Secretary of State tell the House whether the recent announcement by the British museum was made in the light of preferential treatment negotiated between his Department and the museum?
 Mr. Loughton : If he will make a statement on charges to the nation's museums. [17978]
 Mr. Clarke : My hon. Friend raises an important issue. I pay tribute to everyone involved in "Tourism for All" for the marvellous work that they have done, not least at the breakfast meeting a few weeks ago. I also pay tribute to Mandy Todd of the consortium, who is very much involved in the Quarry Bank project in north-west England. She spoke at the forum on the need to involve disabled people in every aspect of tourism, and in the discussion on the new deal. Her efforts and those of her organisation at Quarry Bank are a wonderful example of best practice for access for disabled people and carers, which many people could emulate to their benefit.
 Mr. Clarke : I very much enjoyed my visit to the hon. Gentleman's region, and in particular my visit to his constituency. The subject of the minimum wage was raised, and I was not surprised when once again it was given massive support. I was able to repeat the Government's position: we are committed to a national minimum wage. We appointed the independent Low Pay Commission, to which we were committed, and which includes Stephanie Monk from the tourism industry and Granada. We shall consider the report when it is presented, and my hon. Friend—if I may reciprocate his good nature—can be assured that not only the fears but the hopes of his constituents are safe in the hands of this Government.
 Mr. Clarke : I did, indeed, hear yesterday's broadcast, and was delighted by the international focus given to the success of British tourism under the present Government. I pay tribute to the organisation that my hon. Friend mentioned.
 Mr. Clarke : The Government and the tourism industry are achieving such success that trivial points of that nature have long since ceased to be discussed. The new forum, which met on 26 November, was much more concerned about action—action for jobs, and action for a strategy. The previous Government did not achieve that in 18 years.
 The Minister for Film and Tourism (Mr. Tom Clarke) : Since 1 May, my right hon. Friend and I have met 42 representative organisations. Additionally, we inaugurated the new tourism forum on 26 November, which has 57 members. I shall be completing a programme of visits to each of the 10 regional tourist boards very shortly.
 Mr. Clarke : I do not accept that. With proper planning, many such problems can be avoided. The hon. Gentleman referred to the industry and the prospects for the new deal. Perhaps I may remind him that 58 per cent. of those who were represented at our conference on the new deal said that they would make a contribution to it. May I also remind him that 86 per cent. of those involved in the British Hospitality Association said that they, too, would become involved? "After the initial performance, audience participation was encouraged and this critic, for one, has to report that the initiatives"— "were greatly praised by almost all present, the response was little short of a standing ovation."
 Mr. Clarke : My hon. Friend will be delighted to hear that there was an excellent and positive response, and that almost 50 tourism organisations have already indicated their willingness in principle to participate in the new deal scheme. Last Thursday and Friday, I was delighted to visit Yorkshire; I shall visit it again at the end of this week. I assure my hon. Friend that Yorkshire—with its skills and its genius—will continue to make the contribution that it is capable of making to the growth of real jobs not only in his region but in the rest of Britain.
 Mr. Clarke : My hon. Friend is absolutely correct. I have appointed a working group to report to the main forum on tourism on the very issue of the regeneration of seaside towns, including the resorts represented by my hon. Friend. We are encouraging a large number of initiatives, including the Norman Richardson house project, the London hotels training centre, the Springboard project and many others. My hon. Friend and the House can be assured that we regard youth employment, youth training and the creation of real jobs that lead to
 659
 Mr. Tom Clarke : My Department recognises the importance of a skilled, world-class work force in the industry and the Government's new deal initiative has training at its very heart. I was therefore delighted by the high level of interest and support shown at the tourism, hospitality and leisure new deal conference, which was hosted by my Department and the Secretary of State on 24 November.
 Mr. Banks : We are as concerned as the Opposition about the pursuit of excellence. We must recognise that it is necessary to encourage the involvement of the very youngest. That is what we shall do. If we do not encourage the youngest, we shall not get elite athletes winning medals for this country. On the previous Government's initiatives, where we feel that they were in the interests of primary schoolchildren, we shall do all that we can to encourage them.
 Mr. Banks : I thank my hon. Friend for his supplementary question, and for noting that I am here doing the job—and still doing the job, which is sometimes as great a surprise to me as it is to others. 650
 Mr. Banks : I am acutely aware of the problems. On several occasions in the House, I have paid tribute to our Paralympic team. We have some of the finest disabled athletes in the world and I want this country to glory in their achievements because they do wonders for this country and for their sports.
 Mr. Banks : We have a great deal of interest in the world cup next year, not only with Scotland and England, but also with Jamaica. Given the United Nations aspect of the premier league, it is fascinating to see that virtually every world cup competitor will have a British league player, which again gives us an abiding interest.
 Mr. Banks : My hon. Friend is always keen to push the welfare of his constituency and his city. It is, indeed, a fine city of sport. However, we shall have to wait just a little longer. There will be presentations on 16 December from the three short-listed bidders—Sheffield, Upper Heyford and the Central Consortium. Now that we have put some flesh on the bones of the old British Academy of Sport, I think that we shall be able to make progress with some speed. However, we must get the decision right—I have made that point before. We do not want to rush into it and make mistakes. We shall make the announcement fairly shortly after 16 December, and I can tell my hon. Friend that, as ever, Sheffield is in there with a very good chance.
 Mr. Banks : We are committed to improving the quality of training for our athletes. In particular,
 654
 The Minister for Sport (Mr. Tony Banks) : Before I answer the question, I am sure that my hon. Friend will join me and the House in paying tribute to the memory of Billy Bremner, who died on Saturday. Billy was one of the great characters of post-war football and an inspiring captain of both Scotland and Leeds United. He will be sorely missed.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Win Griffiths) : The right hon. Gentleman turned it down.
 Mr. Win Griffiths : My hon. Friend is right to list the quangos to be dealt with by the Bill. However, he needs to remember that, under the existing powers, the Health Promotion Authority for Wales, the Welsh Health Common Services Authority, the Cardiff Bay development corporation and the residuary body will all be out of the way. We are currently carrying out the reconfiguration of trusts in which a substantial number of those will also disappear.
 Mrs. Betty Williams  (Conwy) : I have listened to many speeches today, some of which have led me to believe that we need the Bill so that the people of Wales can govern themselves as we want them to be able to. 750
 Mrs. Williams : I whole-heartedly agree with my hon. Friend. People in my constituency and in neighbouring authorities who depend on tourism will look to the Welsh Assembly, and will look favourably on the proposals in the Bill.
 Mrs. Williams : I am running out of time, so I shall not give way. 751
 Mrs. Betty Williams : What action are the Government taking to ensure full access for disabled people to every aspect of tourism?
 Mrs. May : Is the Minister aware of the difficulties in recent months in getting funding for disabled athletes to train for the Paralympics in Sydney 2000? Those difficulties have occurred because of long delays in getting promised lottery funds distributed to the various disabled sports associations. For example, difficulties were suffered by the Windsor and Maidenhead sports association for the disabled, which is in my constituency and of which I am a member. Is the Minister aware of those difficulties? What is he doing to investigate them and to ensure that promised funds are distributed so that our disabled athletes can train properly in preparation for the Sydney 2000 Paralympics?
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley : Judging by the number of times that the Government have pre-launched, launched and relaunched their initiatives for after-school clubs and homework centres using lottery money, it is clear that the Secretary of State has been very accommodating to the Chancellor of the Exchequer in allowing the lottery to become a back pocket to support any pet cause and help a Minister in difficulty.
 Helen Jones : I thank my hon. Friend for that reply. In Warrington, only 36 per cent. of members of the Bench come from the Warrington, North constituency; most of the others come from Warrington, South. Many of them live as far away as Shropshire and Crosby. The central areas of Warrington are represented by only two magistrates. Will my hon. Friend assure the House that he will look seriously at such places to ensure that the communities—which often suffer the worst aspects of crime—are actually represented on the Bench?
37.  Helen Jones : What steps he intends to take to ensure that each magistrates bench is representative of the community it serves. [18016]
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. There is an element of Parkinson's law creeping into the debate. Many hon. Members are still trying to catch my eye; if speeches continue at the present length, many will fail to do so.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I remind the hon. Gentleman that he is addressing the Chair.
 Sir Sydney Chapman : Accepting what the Secretary of State has just said in reply to my hon. Friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham (Mr. Loughton), and notwithstanding his consultation paper, may I—as someone who felt impelled to vote against the Museum and Galleries Admission Charges Bill in the early 1970s—ask the Secretary of State to give a
 653
 Several hon. Members : On a point of order.
 Several hon. Members rose—
 Hon. Members : Give way.
 Several hon. Members   rose—
 Several hon. Members   rose—
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : In that case, we will take them separately.
 The Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster (Dr. David Clark) : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker. I should like to apologise most sincerely to you and to the whole House for what appears to have been a premature disclosure of some features of the freedom of information White Paper which I hoped to present to the House this Thursday. I should like to assure you that I myself had no part in this, and no knowledge of it. No one is more annoyed than I that these details should have emerged, and I believe that it is a disservice to the House.
 Dr. Stoate : Will my hon. Friend confirm that Berkshire health authority will receive £15.5 million extra next year? Does he agree that the hon. Member for Newbury (Mr. Rendel) should be glad that there is a Labour Government because we have already pledged twice as much money as the Liberals promised at the general election?
5.  Dr. Gibson : If he will take action to ensure that insurance companies pay the full cost of road traffic accident care to NHS trusts. [18231]
 Dr. Gibson : I thank my hon. Friend for that reply, which will please the members of the Norwich community health council who raised the issue with me. Will she consider extending that policy to the treatment of other patients, such as the victims of workplace accidents, many of whom are children?
 Dr. Brand : The Minister appeared to agree with the question. May I check her phrasing? Did she agree that the NHS should charge the full cost of the consequences
 783
 Mr. Ancram : They do in Scotland.
 Mr. Michael Ancram  (Devizes) : Will the Minister confirm that Devizes, and indeed Scotland, where I come from, are rather nearer to Wales than South Africa?
 Mr. Ancram : Does the Minister realise that the need for the Barnett formula, or a formula of words ensuring the Welsh people that their needs will be met, arises only because of devolution? Currently, there is no need for such an assurance. Why does the Bill therefore provide that expenditure available to the Welsh Assembly will be entirely at the discretion of the Secretary of State and no one else?
 Mr. Ancram : As the Minister knows, today a paper on the Barnett formula was placed in the Library. Will he tell the House the meaning of point 8(b), which states:
 "Adjustments may be made" "action taken by the Scottish or Welsh administrations in a devolved area has knock-on costs for the UK Government or vice versa"?
 Mr. Ancram : What does it mean?
 Mr. Ancram   indicated dissent.
 Mr. Ancram : I have been interested by the hon. Gentleman's glowing idea of what the assembly will achieve. I presume, on that basis, that he will be standing for the assembly and will be leaving this House.
 Mr. Ancram : I am not going to give way, because I have only 10 minutes.
 Mr. Michael Ancram  (Devizes) : This motion is quite simply a disgrace. I am not surprised that the monkey rather than the organ grinder has moved it. I remind the House that, yesterday, the Secretary of State asked me whether I would
 "give an undertaking that, if the Government were not minded to have the Bill considered in Committee upstairs, he would agree with the Government, through the usual channels, to have an agreed timetable to take the matter entirely on the Floor of the House".—[ Official Report, 8 December 1997; Vol. 302, c. 691.] 902 "it is, of course, also open to any MP to put forward changes to the Bill, and to have these explored in detail through open debate".
 Mr. Ancram : I shall not give way, because I do not have enough time. The motion is a contempt of Parliament, because it covers only six clauses out of 149 clauses and 14 schedules. Enormous areas of the Bill will not be considered on the Floor of the House, although they are of significant interest to all hon. Members.
 Mr. Jenkin : Go on, have a go.
 Mr. Jenkin : I agree with the hon. Gentleman. By responding to nationalism in Ireland, the Liberals were attempting to square the constitutional circle. They realised that, to make logical sense of their proposals for Ireland, they would have to offer assemblies also to other parts of the UK. The hon. Gentleman's initial assertion was thus perfectly correct.
 Mr. Jenkin : When has a Minister from one of the German lauder ever exercised the vote in the Council of Ministers? The White Paper is brutal about the influence on the conduct of Council business that the Government envisage for the Welsh First Secretary. It states:
 "the Assembly should be able to keep the delegation advised of its views."
 Mr. Jenkin : By invitation.
 Mr. Jenkin : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Jenkin : Would the hon. Gentleman confirm that a concordat for inward investment was never going to be necessary unless there was to be devolution of the nature proposed in the Bill? Will he also confirm that the WDA and Locate in Scotland are complaining bitterly about the new restrictions that that will mean for their activities? That concordat was specifically requested by the Prime Minister—Sir George Russell, the chairman of the Northern development corporation, must be extremely proud of one of his local Members. Does the Minister agree that it is likely that those restrictions will hamper the performance of the WDA because it will now have to work to explicit rules, outside the normal collective responsibility of Cabinet Government?
 Mr. Jenkin : Why is it complaining?
 Mr. Jenkin : I am grateful to the Minister for giving way again. Would he care to comment on the recent remarks made by the Minister for Small Firms, Trade and Industry? She told the House:
 "but it is essential that devolution should not undermine the UK's position in the wider world."—[ Official Report
 Mr. Jenkin : That bears out the foreboding of Government Members who have spoken of devolution in terms of the Balkanisation or unbundling of Britain, and have warned that we are embarking on a constitutional magical mystery tour. Their prescience before seeing the terms of the Bill was admirable. The chill of their words is now all the more striking.
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (North Essex) : We have enjoyed several excellent speeches in the debate, including that from my hon. Friend the Member for Witney (Mr. Woodward). He spoke with passion, and it has been striking that passionate defences of our constitution have been greeted with derision and contempt by the supporters of the Bill. Never let it be said that there is no place for adversarial politics in post-Marxist Britain, because there is a deep divide between the pros and the antis in the devolution debate in Wales. 883 884 "devolution is not an event, but a process."—[ Official Report "did not produce a decisive decision, but the people of Wales gave a clear decision",—[ Official Report "75 per cent. of the people of Wales did not oppose the creation of the Assembly".—[ Official Report "to allay the fears that were expressed by people." 885 886
 Mr. Jenkin : It seems that the hon. Lady is lamenting the fact that, over the centuries, most of Britain has been swamped by a European culture of one sort or another—the Saxons, the Romans, the Danes, the Flemings and the French. I am afraid that Britain is a multicultural society, but Wales is a welcome part of it.
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (North Essex) : But you are the Secretary of State for Wales.
 Mr. Jenkin   rose—
 Mr. Jenkin : May I suggest to the hon. Gentleman that schedule 2 is even more misleading than he suggests? Schedule 2 refers to clause 22 only in respect of the initial powers of the assembly. Clauses 105 to 107 can be used to grab back some or all of those powers as they are deemed to be international obligations as interpreted by the Secretary of State. Clause 22(1)(a) provides
 "for the transfer to the Assembly of any function so far as exercisable by a Minister of the Crown in relation to Wales". The Scotsman
 Mr. Soames : I thank the right hon. Gentleman for his pragmatic approach. Does he agree that what matters is not people's political persuasion but whether they can do the job well, because it is an extremely important job? Does he accept that I fought tooth and claw to have a strong Labour supporter appointed to the board of Crawley hospital because he was an excellent man for the job and did it extremely well? Will he examine all the cases personally to ensure that the process does not become a political charade and that those who are absolutely qualified to do the job are appointed?
 Madam Speaker : Of course I do not ignore Scottish Members—they are part of the whole in this House, as far as I am concerned. I call them whatever the statement may be, and whatever Question Time it may be.
 Madam Speaker : I have a brief statement to make to the House. I have to inform Members that I have received the following letter from the Clerk of the House:
 "I am writing to confirm to you my decision to retire as Clerk of the House on 31st December of this year. I have greatly enjoyed my years in the service of the House, which began in October 1956, and I have felt it to be a signal honour in the last three years to hold the office of Clerk. During my time there have been many changes in the House's processes and a great acceleration in the activities of committees. The House has taken control of its own finances, administration and works, and more recently has implemented the Jopling Report and dealt with the recommendations of the Committee on Standards in Public Life. No doubt other reforms will be implemented during the lifetime of this Parliament—proof, if any were needed, of the resilience of the institution and of its deserved place in the esteem of the legislatures of many countries in the Commonwealth and beyond. The six House Departments and other support staff such as the police, as well as the staff employed by Members, all have important roles to play in securing the effectiveness of our parliamentary system. I believe they have responded constructively to the need for change and I am grateful to them for their support whilst I have been Clerk. Finally, I pay tribute to the understanding and friendship of successive Speakers, especially yourself, and of Members on all sides. It has been a great honour for me to have served in this place. Yours sincerely, Donald Limon."
 Madam Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman made the point that we will debate these matters in full in a few months' time. I appreciate that he is the Liberal Democrat spokesman, but even so he is taking an inordinate length of time. There must be 50 or 60 Members trying to catch my eye, and there is no way in which even half of them can be called if this continues. I want just one question from each Member called, and then I shall wind up questions on the statement.
 Madam Speaker : Well done.
 Madam Speaker : I am grateful to the Minister.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Hon. Members must wait for my answer, and not be so impatient.
 Madam Speaker : Thank you, Mr. Dobson. Go and rest your voice.
 Madam Speaker : Could we have sensible points of order, please?
 Madam Speaker : The hon. Lady appears to be asking me whether I have heard from the Secretary of State for Scotland whether he is seeking to make a statement on the document to which she has referred. I have not heard that a statement is to be made, but I am sure that those on the Front Bench will have noticed what she has said.
 Madam Speaker : I have had no communication from solicitors. I am rather delighted that I have not.
 Mr. Milburn : I remind the hon. Gentleman that the formula has been in operation for the past 18 years; I did not hear him complain before.
 Mr. Milburn : My hon. Friend is right. The cash increase for Berkshire health authority will be an extra
 792
 Mr. Milburn : If the hon. Gentleman had bothered to examine the figures he would realise that, as a consequence of our changes to the funding formula, Berkshire health authority is closer to its weighted capitation target than it was under the previous Government. It might be worth reminding Liberal Democrat Members of the general largesse that this Government have spread around the NHS and particularly of the figures for health authorities covering Liberal Democrat-held seats: an extra £42.5 million this winter; an extra £257 million for next year; an extra £2.2 million for breast cancer funding; and an extra £1.6 million this year for children's intensive care. A bit of gratitude would not come amiss.
 Mr. Milburn : For 1998–99, under their capitation targets, health authorities received real terms increases in their allocations above the average of 1.9 per cent. and up to 2.65 per cent. As a consequence, more than 90 per cent. of health authorities will be within plus or minus 5 per cent. of their target as set by the national weighted capitation formula.
 Mr. Milburn : The White Paper which will be issued shortly will set out how we shall fulfil our pledge to remove the wasteful competition of the NHS internal market. We shall show how all NHS bodies, including trusts, will play their full part in improving health care.
 Mr. Milburn : I am aware of the problems faced by local health services in that respect. The thousands of visitors to Blackpool every year usually have a great time—including at the party conferences, when they manage to get there—but occasionally one or two fall ill. The current arrangements do not budget for that and, worse, the health authority has to issue an invoice every single time a patient falls ill on holiday. That is costly and expensive and it is regarded as an anathema by hospital clinicians. If my hon. Friend waits approximately 34 minutes, she may hear some good news.
 Mr. Milburn : As the hon. Gentleman is aware, the matter is the subject of consultation. If it is contested by one of the local community health councils, it will end up on Ministers' desks, so it is inappropriate for me to discuss the specific issues. Of course the Government recognise the important role of NHS trusts in providing health care for millions of people. We want to build on the success of some NHS trusts, but we want that success to be achieved across the country and to ensure that the shortcomings in some trusts are nipped in the bud rather than allowed to escalate.
 Mr. Milburn : As my hon. Friend knows, I am aware of the consultation being undertaken by Birmingham health authority. I very much agree that there should be proper public consultation. The review covers public services and the public have a right to expect their voice to be heard. Those charged with the responsibility of shaping and delivering health services in future should operate to a simple maxim: the national health service is a public service—it belongs to the public and should listen to what the public have to say.
 Mr. Milburn : The health service is being given the money to deal with such problems. I remind the hon. Gentleman, in case he has forgotten, that, during this year and next year, an extra £1.5 billion will be invested in the NHS in such areas as his. I hope that he will welcome that.
 Mr. Milburn : My hon. Friend makes a very good point. The legacy left to this Government by the previous Government is one of record waiting lists and record debt. That is what we are having to tackle; and we shall tackle it. The Government do not want the NHS to enter the next financial year as it entered this financial year—up to its eyes in debt. That means that difficult and robust decisions will have to be taken. Of course we expect those decisions to be undertaken sensitively. Where it is warranted, I know that the NHS executive will be prepared to discuss with individual health authorities an extension to ensure that debts are paid off over time.
 Mr. Milburn : The hon. Gentleman makes a very good point. All incentives under the market system were for NHS trusts to expand their business, regardless of whether that was in the interests of the wider health community—or, i6ndeed, the community in general. In future, we shall be expecting NHS trusts to co-operate and work with one another so that there is maximum gain for patients. Not only doctors and nurses but managers in NHS trusts want that. They want to work together rather than being forced to compete against one another.
 Mr. Milburn : My hon. Friend will be pleased to know that, just last week, in Committee, we approved an order opening trust board meetings to the public. That is important because trusts are public organisations and the decisions that they take have a real impact on the local community. In future, there will be no more secrecy concerning NHS trust board meetings and no more commercial, in-confidence information held concerning trust boards. Trust boards and NHS trusts are part of the wider NHS family and they must start acting as such.
 Mr. Milburn : If the hon. Gentleman had bothered to look at the figures for Herefordshire health authority, he would have noticed that, for the next financial year, the allocations made by this Government will mean an increase in cash terms of 4.69 per cent., compared to 3.38 per cent. for this year under the previous Government.
 The Minister of State, Department of Health (Mr. Alan Milburn) : Herefordshire health authority has recently announced that it will be implementing a new management structure which will save at least £100,000 per year. That sum will be available for investment in direct patient care to improve the health of the local population.
 Mr. Milburn : We certainly shall—co-operation is in; competition is out. Co-operation is in especially at the boundaries between health and social care. We want there to be much more closely integrated care between health and social services to ensure that people on the boundary of the interface, who are the most vulnerable members of our community—the mentally ill, the disabled and the elderly—get the care and attention that they deserve.
 Mr. Milburn : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. Simply by cancelling the eighth wave of fundholding, we were able to free up £20 million for investment in front-line patient services, £10 million to improve breast cancer services and £5 million to improve children's intensive care services. I hope that all right hon. and hon. Members agree that those are the right priorities for a national health service.
 Mr. Milburn : The people of Herefordshire will be able to judge our stewardship of the national health service very simply—on the proportion of investment that goes
 780
 Mr. Rogers : Part of the reason for my reticence about supporting my hon. Friend on that argument relates to our experience in the south Wales valleys. On one or two occasions, the Welsh nationalists have taken control and totally excluded every other political party from the democratic process. The Liberals and the nationalists talk about exclusiveness because they are in a minority, but when they get a majority, they put the screws on: there is no talk of inclusiveness then.
 Mr. Allan Rogers  (Rhondda) : I am enjoying my hon. Friend's speech, but I hope that he will not respond to the silly remarks by the Conservatives. There are more important things to discuss than who voted for what. If the Conservatives cannot accept the workings of democracy, there is no point in responding to their silly childishness. The sooner they get to grips with examining the problems, such as those raised by my hon. Friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney (Mr. Rowlands), the better they will serve the people of Wales, although they do not represent them.
 Mr. Andy King : Can my hon. Friend assure me that, in the light of the small trusts that collapsed and were clearly a disaster under the Conservatives, such as Rugby national health service trust, which left us with rubble in place of a robust local health service, there will be clear criteria and guidance to protect local services that should be delivered locally and should not be taken away by predatory, larger, neighbouring trusts?
 Mr. Lansley : Given that the level of capital investment in the national health service is important—I am sure the Secretary of State agrees—will he explain why his Department issued a press release on 29 October stating that the level of capital investment in the NHS next year
 789
 Mr. Rowe : Is the Secretary of State aware that his emphasis on primary care will be widely welcomed? At a time when the responsibility for developing the health service is shifting increasingly to primary care, is there not something absurd about carrying on the kind of rationalisation of hospitals that is going on now, without any reference to GP preferences? For example, in Kent, the Kent and Canterbury hospital and others are under threat.
 Mr. Anthony Steen  (Totnes) : I beg to move,
 That leave be given to bring in a Bill to provide for the establishment of a statutory Press Complaints Commission; to make further provisions in respect of libel actions brought against newspapers; and for connected purposes. 814
11.  Mr. Barry Jones : If he will make a statement on the qualifications required of appointees to non-executive posts on health trusts and similar organisations within the NHS. [18238]
 Mr. Jones : I thank my right hon. Friend for that helpful reply. Can he assure us that at least some of the new members will be sympathetic to the aims of a Labour Government? Will he also assure us that the trusts will not remain stuffed full of Conservatives?
 Mr. Sheerman : My hon. Friend will know that, in an average year, 4,000 people die of flu and that in an epidemic year—such as 1989—up to 30,000 die. We have heard suggestions that a particularly nasty epidemic is on
 787
8.  Mr. Sheerman : What restrictions are currently imposed on the availability of free influenza inoculations for the public. [18234]
 Mr. Olner : I welcome the changes that the Secretary of State has announced. Will they work their way through to Warwickshire health authority where for many years the south of the county, where morbidity figures are low, has received more funding than my constituency
 781
1.  Mr. Pond : What proposals he has for increasing the role of primary care within the NHS. [18227]
 Mr. Pond : I thank my right hon. Friend for his reply. Is he aware that general practitioners in my constituency of Gravesham and in the constituency of my hon. Friend the Member for Dartford (Dr. Stoate) have recently developed a highly successful scheme of co-operation? Is he further aware that we have recently opened a minor injuries unit in Gravesend and North Kent hospital, again managed by nurses and GPs, as the first stage to establishing a proper community hospital in the borough? Is not the way forward for the health service putting GPs and nurses in the driving seat and ensuring that they can match local decisions to local needs?
 Mr. Chris Ruane  (Vale of Clwyd) : Did the Conservative Government have a mandate, or a two-thirds majority, to change the system of government in Wales from a democracy to a quangocracy?
9.  Mr. Gill : What representations he has received regarding the future of Kidderminster district general hospital. [18235]
 Mr. Gill : The Minister will recognise that any proposal to close accident and emergency services at Kidderminster hospital would be a devastating blow to all those people in north Worcestershire and in my constituency in south Shropshire who are served by the 1,230 members of staff at that excellent hospital, which provides 27 medical services. Does he agree with the hon. Member for Wyre Forest (Mr. Lock), who said in a press release 12 months ago:
 "It is a simple matter of funding. We will only prevent further cuts at Kidderminster if the Government provides enough money to the Health Authority to fund the hospital"?
 Mr. David Curry  (Skipton and Ripon) : If the Government intend to have no more than about 500 commissioning units, that implies that each will cover a very large area—particularly in rural areas—including some minuscule practices serving no more than 2,000 patients? If a rural area has a natural coherence and identity, will the Secretary of State ensure that there is sufficient flexibility to recognise that and that no artificial limit will be placed on the number of people that can constitute one of the commissioning groups?
 Mr. Hanson : I thank my right hon. Friend for that excellent reply. Will he join me in welcoming the news in this morning's press that he intends to save an extra £1 billion in the next few years from red tape and to put it directly into patient care? Labour Members believe that every pound that he puts into patient care at the expense of bureaucracy is welcome.
16.  Mr. Hanson : What action he is taking to reduce bureaucracy in the national health service. [18245]
 Mr. David Hinchliffe  (Wakefield) : I offer a warm welcome to my right hon. Friend's statement, which will be widely welcomed throughout the country. One of the consequences of the previous Government's record on the NHS is that I regularly find myself writing five, six, seven or more separate letters about one constituent's problems because of all the various agencies which were brought about through the previous Government's fragmentation of the NHS. That occurs particularly where we have an overlap between health and social care.
 Mr. Lock : Does my hon. Friend agree that there is considerable anger among the people of Worcestershire who have learnt that the Tory-appointed former health authority was overspending by £8 million to £9 million a year and has run up debts of between £18 million and £23 million—debts that this Government and the new health authority must sort out? That is another example of our having to sort out somebody else's mess. Does he accept that there is concern in Wyre Forest that GPs—who are part of a commissioning group whose proposals
 788
 Mr. Rendel : Is the Minister aware that Berkshire health authority was £19 million under capitation this year and is due to be another £13 million under capitation next year? That is having a cumulative effect and, as a result, health services in Berkshire are nothing like what they should be. That is unfair to the people of Berkshire. Will he make progress towards targets more quickly in future?
15.  Mr. Rendel : What progress he is making towards aligning health authority funding with proposed targets under weighted capitation. [18244]
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : Is my right hon. Friend aware that the reason why he is able to make today's statement is that the British people woke up in time? They realised earlier this year—and perhaps a bit before—that the national health service was on its way to the hands of insurance companies and other speculators, which would probably create a service costing twice as much and similar to that in America?
 Mr. Denzil Davies  (Llanelli) : Hon. Members are slightly intrigued by those concordats; undoubtedly we will see them in due course. Will there be a concordat between the Welsh Assembly and the Treasury? If there is such a concordat, will my hon. Friend give an undertaking that the Barnett formula will be written into it?
 Mr. Llwyd : Yes, I shall have a go. It is time that someone had a go from this Bench, lest someone lump us in with your lot. 860
 Mr. Llwyd : Yes, it was. The hon. Gentleman is so predictable. Before I am interrupted again and subjected to the mantra about the thinness of the majority, I must simply say that it ill behoves a party which was in power twice for a total of 10 years on the vote of a minority of the United Kingdom electorate to try to score points in that way. 861
 Mr. Elfyn Llwyd  (Meirionnydd Nant Conwy) : It is a great pleasure to follow the hon. Member for Cardiff, North (Ms Morgan), who made a thoughtful speech, full of good, common sense and some important points. It was very much in contrast with the speech by the hon. Member for Ribble Valley (Mr. Evans), who opened the debate on behalf of the official Opposition.
 Mr. Llwyd : I know that the hon. Gentleman is an expert in these matters, but it is my understanding that a representative of the Welsh Assembly will be able to attend the Agriculture Council with any delegation. I am sure that Welsh needs can be dealt with in that way. I fully accept that there will not be official ministerial representation, and I regret that. That is one aspect that my party will seek to redress as the Bill proceeds. I acknowledge the hon. Gentleman's point, but there will be some voice, albeit that of a delegation. 862
 Mr. Llwyd : I am not sure about that particular aspect, but, with great respect, the Welsh Assembly will be based on good will. For historical reasons, the hon. Member's country is different from mine—
 Mr. Llwyd : That may be the case, but probably the answer is no. That is the answer he is looking for. I believe that there will be a far greater spirit of co-operation in the assembly and when those who were previously doubtful have been persuaded to support it, we will make it a strong powerhouse for Wales. 863 "start that agenda, to get the changes under way, and then to give the Welsh Assembly the opportunity review matters."—[ Official Report, Welsh Grand Committee 864
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : The Secretary of State referred to quality standards and targets. Is there any contradiction between those and the reference he also made to long-term agreements? If too many institutions are committed to long-term agreements and fail to meet the quality standards or targets, insufficient flexibility may exist to enable the institutions to improve to meet the targets.
 Mr. Martlew : Going back to the original question, is the Secretary of State aware that since 1979 the people of Carlisle have been waiting for a new district general hospital, which was cancelled four times under the previous Government? The go-ahead was given only when we got this new Labour Government. We have started work on the site and the people of Carlisle will have a brand new hospital for the millennium.
 Mr. Dobson : I agree entirely with my hon. Friend and I am only sorry that I was unable to attend and, so to speak, cut the first sod.
 Mr. Dobson : The national health service reported the completion of capital schemes costing more than £1 million only between 1980 and 1985.
 Mr. Dobson : The Government's new criteria for choosing who should serve as chairs or non-executive directors of health boards are designed to make the boards more representative of the communities they serve and to encourage more NHS users and carers to become board members. Candidates should normally live in the area served by the trust or health authority and be able to demonstrate a strong commitment to the national health service and the local community.
 Mr. Dobson : It is certainly the case, on the basis of the figures in that press release, that the increase is in cash terms, and I apologise for that. In all the years that I was in opposition, I issued thousands of figures and only once got one wrong. In government, I do not intend to issue information that is wrong. We are taking steps to ensure that it does not happen again.
 Mr. Dobson : Given the state of my voice, I will not risk repeating a Cook's tour of Kent. I would like to congratulate the staff of the national health service in every part of the country who have kept the faith and kept us reasonably well and healthy for all these years. I hope that they will be able to continue to do so.
 Mr. Dobson : I think that I can safely assure my hon. Friend that the odd person sympathetic to the objectives of the NHS has certainly crept on to some boards since we have been making the appointments. In all seriousness, there are Conservatives chairing and acting as non-executive directors of health trusts and authorities who many of my colleagues have said have done a good job, and a substantial number of them have been appointed. Also, a member of the former Conservative Cabinet has been appointed. As far as I know, no one has accused me of political fiddling in appointing Mr. Tony Newton as the chair of one of those boards.
 Mr. Dobson : I congratulate the hon. Gentleman, as it is indeed the case that he moved heaven and earth to get a Labour supporter appointed to one of his local boards because he thought that he would do a good job. That is what I want to do. I emphasise the fact that no nominee has come to my ministerial colleagues or me who has not
 790
 Mr. Dobson : My hon. Friend has been in politics as long as I have and he knows that gratitude is the last thing to expect. Every time I come into the Chamber I expect Opposition Members to rise in grateful thanks for the extra funds that we have provided, but I am disappointed.
 Mr. Dobson : I am a great believer in horses for courses. In many parts of the country, it is right to amalgamate smaller trusts—perhaps two or three smaller trusts or a couple of small trusts with a bigger trust—but in other parts of the country local people and clinicians and, for that matter the NHS regional management, are convinced that keeping some of the smaller trusts in existence may protect services that would otherwise not
 786
 Mr. Dobson : The hon. Gentleman reinforces the point that I wish to make. People in east Cheshire are obviously well suited by the present arrangements, but people in other parts of the country do not fancy that arrangement and I do not wish to force it down their throats. As for conventional wisdom, over the years I have observed that it may be conventional but it is seldom wisdom.
 Mr. Dobson : The Government have no national blueprint for mergers between health authorities or between NHS trusts. We would seek to encourage mergers of both where that is in the interests of health care in the localities concerned.
 Mr. Dobson : What my hon. Friend says is true and very welcome. Such developments, which we have been looking at and studying, make us confident that the proposals that
 778
 Mr. Dobson : Mortality and morbidity statistics obviously formed a major part of the formula. However, we are not satisfied with the present formula and have set up a group to study it in time for further changes. The aim must be to allocate funds to those areas most in need, and the areas with high levels of mortality and of morbidity—in other words, sickness—must take priority.
 Mr. Dobson : For a start, only a fool would regard the information technology systems in the NHS as satisfactory. I should certainly not address any laudatory remarks to them. They are incapable of supplying some of the most basic information that people might require. We want the health service to have information systems that help patients and help clinicians to provide better, quicker and more effective treatment. We shall get on with that. Since coming to power, we have taken action to deal with the 2000 problem. The main problem is not in the information technology systems, but in the embedded chips in all sorts of health service machinery, including scanners and other vital equipment in operating theatres. That is being addressed. It will be dealt with, but it will cost money.
 Mr. Dobson : The allocation formula for 1998–99 was changed better to reflect the health needs of local populations in every part of the country. That was announced on 29 October 1997,  Official Report 828–29
 Mr. Dobson : As the elected Member for Holborn and St. Pancras—there are few more urban constituencies in the world—I can tell the hon. Gentleman that my health authority received exactly the same percentage increase as his. The changes were made in an effort to introduce more fairness into the allocation. The hon. Gentleman apparently does not know that, for the first time in the history of the national health service, an element of rurality was added to the formula to benefit rural areas. No Conservative Government ever did that, so the hon. Gentleman should be grateful.
 Mr. Dobson : As everyone knows, the number and nature of hospitals in the NHS has been changing since the NHS came into being. We are determined to ensure that any changes reflect the needs of people living in a particular area. As I understand it, in the area represented by the hon. Gentleman, the proposals are out for consultation. The new Government want to move to a situation where consultation is genuine and not just a period of time.
 The Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Frank Dobson) : The development of primary care is one of the Government's medium-term priorities for the NHS. We recently launched a salaried doctor's scheme which will improve the quality of services and help tackle health inequalities. From 1 April next year, health authorities will be able to fund local development schemes to improve general medical services. We also intend to proceed with pilots under the National Health Service (Primary Care) Act 1997 to explore more flexible ways of delivering primary care. Our further proposals will be set out in the White Paper to be published at 3.30 pm today.
 Mr. Dobson : What is wanted is a first-class health service, close to home so that people do not have to travel long distances to find primary care, community care and community hospitals. That is what is wanted increasingly by local people and the profession, and we want to help them bring it about.
 Mr. Dobson : When our White Paper is published this afternoon, the right hon. Lady will see that we are trying to build on the parts that have worked and dispense with the parts that have not worked.
 Mr. Dobson : There are some who suggest that I am noted for my vulgarity, but never in the Chamber—or at least, not this Chamber. 779
 Mr. Dobson : We live in a world of dilemmas, and the right hon. Gentleman's point contains some truth. Therefore, we will have to try to ensure that the problem does not arise.
 Mr. Dobson : I certainly agree with the last point that my hon. Friend makes. The national health service is popular with people in this country, partly because it provides them with such a good service when they and their families are in need, and partly because of the principles on which it is based. When I am doing okay,
 810
 Mr. Dobson : I can certainly confirm that, in future, trusts will have a statutory obligation to deliver services to the quality standards that have been laid down. They will also be under a statutory obligation to co-operate with other parts of the national health service. It is a pretty extraordinary thought that, until we change the law, my hon. Friend's local hospital is under no obligation to co-operate with the hospital in Slough, which is not far down the road. It seems crazy, but that is the system we have inherited.
 Mr. Dobson : That would not be a sensible way of approaching matters. The point that I made at Question Time was that we want to encourage mergers between trust and trust and health authority and health authority which appear to make sense to people in the locality. We do not want to lay down the law; we want to encourage them.
 Mr. Dobson : I entirely agree with my hon. Friend.
 Mr. Dobson : As the right hon. Gentleman may recollect from when he was an Environment Minister, I am a great believer in horses for courses. We do not seek to enforce one model in every city, suburb and rural area. We want a system that meets the needs of the patients. We are determined to provide a national health service that is moulded to the needs of the patient, rather than the patient having to be moulded to the institutions.
 Mr. Dobson : That is certainly the case. There will be an increased role for everyone involved in primary care, including midwives, who also have a significant role in hospitals. That may be one sector where massive savings can be achieved—in any particular town or city, it is possible to predict how many women will become pregnant in any given year. 808
 Mr. Dobson : I can certainly confirm that we intend that doctors, nurses and other health care professionals should be in the driving seat. As for fundholders, as those hon. Members who were at Health questions know, we have established 42 pilot commissioning schemes, most of which involve fundholders from those areas who volunteered to take part.
 Mr. Dobson : I do not like making promises that I cannot guarantee to deliver, and I certainly cannot guarantee the future of any particular hospital when it is raised in the Chamber as it has just been. I would expect GPs in the hon. Gentleman's constituency to try to make sure that the best secondary hospital services were available to their patients as near to their patients' homes as is sensibly convenient, and reasonably cost-effective. I hope that everyone involved in the health service in the
 807
 Mr. Dobson : I thank my honourable and good Friend for his welcome for what we have announced today. We are trying to address exactly the point he made about patients and the people representing them being badgered and passed from pillar to post because of the need to approach half a dozen agencies within the national health service and the local authority in order to get proper care for somebody.
 Mr. Dobson : The response of the hon. Member for Stratford-on-Avon (Mr. Maples) suggests that the country believed that we had a sort of NHS nirvana until the end of April 1997. Most people do not like what has happened to the health service; most people working in it do not like it, either. They find it wasteful and unfair to patients. They do not like the fact that those working in the NHS have been forced to participate in activities that they find unfair and unpleasant. "touching old Labour faith in co-operation and good will" 802
 Mr. Dobson : I do not know whether I dare welcome the hon. Gentleman's welcome for the White Paper. It is a serious and solid document, and I pay tribute to my hon. Friend the Member for Darlington (Mr. Milburn) for the enormous amount of hard work that he put into its preparation.
 Mr. Dobson : It is intended to bring together the various professionals to consider the latest evidence on new technology and new drugs, to assess their value and decide which ones are worth pushing, and in effect brand some things as good for the NHS. It will then be up to the rest of the machinery to get on with it, but the process will be led by the professionals. The standards applied will have to be acceptable to the professions. I hope that the institute will be successful.
 Mr. Dobson : I should have thought that the right hon. Lady knew from her experience as Secretary of State that, when anyone starts reciting figures about the money that has been spent on the health service, the public switch off. They switch off if I do it, and they certainly used to switch off when she did it. After all, she was found in several opinion polls to be the least sincere politician in Britain, and God knows there is a lot of competition.
 Mr. Dobson : There will be a greater role for all nurses who want to increase their contribution, and who have the necessary and skills and training. Community nurses will play an important and influential role, along with general practitioners, in the commissioning process.
 Mr. Dobson : I thank the hon. Gentleman for his welcome. I have said this before and I shall say it again: he has made a singular contribution—an honest, decent contribution—to health debates. He has always stuck to his guns, and I respect him for that.
 Mr. Dobson : The Government are committed to maximising the proportion of health service resources devoted to patient care. We are doing that by removing the bureaucracy of the internal market and reducing management costs. On 22 May, we announced a programme of measures to start reducing bureaucracy by £100 million this year. By deciding not to proceed with the eighth wave of GP fundholding, we saved £20 million that had been earmarked for bureaucracy and nothing more; £10 million of that has already been invested instead in better breast cancer treatment for women in every part of the country and £5 million has been invested in improved children's intensive care. I cannot believe that anyone other than a shareholder in a paper company would not think that that money is being better spent.
 Mr. Dobson : I accept everything that my hon. Friend said.
 The Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Frank Dobson) : In good times and in bad, I have always been proud to be a member of the Labour party and I have never been as proud as I am today, as a Labour Secretary of State for Health to announce the publication of our proposals to renew and modernise the national health service, which our party founded. These are set out in our White Paper "The New NHS". 797 798 799
 Mr. Dobson : Well, we had—[HON. MEMBERS: "Answer."] I shall answer. Those who have been following what has been happening with cancer screening might have noticed that the cervical and breast cancer screening schemes have both been failing because they are too decentralised. We cannot assume that everything should be decentralised, whatever the circumstances. However, we want to devolve as much power, authority and influence as possible to the doctors, nurses and other professionals who do the work in the health service.
 Mr. Dobson : No, it is not a googly. We have to work on the assumption that the bulk of the medical profession
 809
 Mr. Gareth Thomas  (Clwyd, West) : I am proud to speak in a debate on such a truly historic and momentous occasion, because we have the ability to vote for a national assembly for Wales. As a Labour Member, I should like to devote my speech to putting the cultural, patriotic and national case for a national Welsh Assembly. I realise also that there is a very strong, even overwhelming, democratic case and even—on this I differ from my hon. Friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney (Mr. Rowlands—an economic case for establishing an assembly. It is essential that we develop a class of politicians and civil servants who will concentrate on developing a strategy for economic regeneration in Wales. 865 866 867
 Mr. Gareth Thomas : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that, Parliament being sovereign, it did not dictate that there should be a threshold for the referendum? In those circumstances, is it not a case of put up or shut up?.
 Mr. Geoffrey Clifton-Brown  (Cotswold) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. Have you heard from the solicitors acting for the late Robert Maxwell and currently acting for the Paymaster General about whether there is any legal impediment preventing the Paymaster General from coming to this House to make a personal statement about his financial affairs? In particular, we should like to know whether there was any impropriety in his dealings with the late Robert Maxwell's companies.
 Mr. Clifton-Brown : I am about to make a representation. Will the Secretary of State confirm that the formula was altered according to deprivation, the effect of which is to channel resources away from rural areas towards urban areas, with the result that the increase for next year will be only 1.35 per cent. in my constituency, as opposed to 2 per cent. nationally? That led to a public meeting in Cirencester, which was attended by 500 people, to protest about cuts in the accident and emergency department. Is it not wholly unfair that resources are being channelled from rural areas towards urban areas? My constituents should have a fair share of the national cake.
3.  Mr. Clifton-Brown : What representations he has received on changes to the distribution formula for allocating resources to local health authorities. [18229]
 Mr. Prosser : Does my right hon. Friend agree that most patients look upon their local nurses and health care professionals as the linchpin of the NHS? Can he assure me that he wants to see places such as Aylesham health centre, Deal hospital and Buckland hospital in my constituency flourish and expand?
12.  Mr. Prosser : What proposals he has for promoting the role of primary care. [18240]
 Mr. Harry Cohen  (Leyton and Wanstead) : I warmly welcome the White Paper. Will my right hon. Friend explain its impact on maternity services? In the next 12 months, 750,000 women will give birth, and virtually all of them will be attended by midwives. Will he give an assurance that the budget for maternity services will not rest solely with GPs, but that other professionals such as midwives will have a say?
 Mr. Edwards : My hon. Friend makes some reasonable remarks. However, I feel that I have a responsibility to talk about the mandate in my constituency.
 Mr. Edwards : I am coming to that point right now.
 Mr. Edwards : Indeed they did, and I shall outline some of them. Although I do not agree with them all, I understand why some people had reservations. 844
 Mr. Edwards : The phenomenon of Welsh politics is how little progress the Welsh nationalists have made in south Wales. For many of us, the Conservatives are the Opposition. I do not expect or anticipate much inclusiveness or co-operation from them, but we are used to that. 845 "There is a fervent wish to see the Assembly work." "The people of Wales, having voted in favour of the establishment of a Welsh Assembly, require those involved in the process of economic development to work together to ensure that it delivers the best for Wales for the future prosperity of the country."
 Mr. Edwards : There will be more direct representation. At present, the Under-Secretary of State for Wales, my hon. Friend the Member for Bridgend (Mr. Griffiths) is not involved in negotiations in Brussels in the same way as my right hon. Friend the Minister for Agriculture. The Welsh Assembly will provide stronger representation in Europe.  [Interruption.] 846
 Mr. Huw Edwards  (Monmouth) : I am grateful for the opportunity to follow the hon. Member for Aldridge-Brownhills (Mr. Shepherd), who, like me, is a member of the Modernisation Committee. I applaud many of the suggestions that he has made on the rights of Back Benchers, the scrutiny of the Government, open government and freedom of information. However, I do not agree with his speech, which included many speculative comments. We shall have to see what happens. We cannot simply predict the failure of the measure. It is up to the people of Wales and the democratically elected members of the Assembly to ensure that it is a success. 843
 Mr. Ian Bruce : I am sure that the Secretary of State will agree that the national health service has been a leader in information technology and getting information to Ministers so that they can deal with problems. Has he read the  Financial Times
 Mr. Jones : I am grateful to the Minister for intervening, and I hope that he is right. One of the aspects of the drafting of the Bill that surprised me was that the chairpersons of the subject committees will be chosen from a panel elected by the assembly, but the leader or secretary will be elected by the individual subject committee. I would have preferred that both positions were the subject of elections by the whole assembly, which would confirm that the assembly will have cabinet-style, not committee-style, government. I ask the Minister to reflect on that point, and I am sure that we will come back to it in Committee. 850
 Mr. Ieuan Wyn Jones  (Ynys Môn) : I am grateful for the opportunity to participate in the debate. I congratulate the hon. Member for Monmouth (Mr. Edwards) on his speech. We very much welcome him back to the House. We are grateful for the contribution that he has already made to the debate and the cause of Wales. 847 848
 Mr. Jones : I will clarify that point. At the invitation of the relevant Secretary of State, the leader of the subject committee would be allowed to participate. We would prefer that to be a right, and I hope that the Minister will tell us in what circumstances that would happen.
 Mr. Jones : Representatives of the German lauder and some of the states in Belgium have represented their member state in the Council of Ministers under article 146 of the Maastricht treaty. That is confirmed in a research paper that the Library prepared before this debate. We need the issue of representation in the Council of Ministers to be clarified, because—as we understand it—the leader of the relevant subject committee would have the right to attend the Council of Ministers as part of the delegation.
 Mr. Ivan Lewis  (Bury, South) : Will my right hon. Friend confirm that the only basis for the competition in the health service under the previous Government was that they were preparing it for privatisation? Does he acknowledge that people will welcome the White Paper because it proves that, without privatising the NHS or encouraging competition, it can be modernised by encouraging collaboration and all the values which were the basis of the health service when it was created?
 The Minister for Science, Energy and Industry (Mr. John Battle) : I thank my hon. Friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich (Mrs. Dunwoody) for initiating tonight's important Adjournment debate. I share her deep concern for the future of manufacturing, engineering and technology. The British manufacturing base has declined from 58 per cent. in the late 1970s to 22 per cent. of
 922 923 924 925 926
 Mr. Bercow : Does the Secretary of State agree that the key to reducing NHS bureaucracy lies in the decentralisation of service, budgeting and management?
 Mr. Gunnell : Is it not a bit much for the hon. Member for North Cornwall (Mr. Tyler) to whinge about the NHS when my right hon. Friend has provided £10 million extra for health services in Cornwall this year and next? My right hon. Friend knows of the excellent proposal for the merger of two trusts in Leeds, on which all the Members of Parliament for Leeds have been consulted. What criteria will he use to judge whether the merger should go ahead? I hope, however, that he will comment first on the whingeing by the hon. Member for North Cornwall.
 Mr. Maples : I was interested to hear the Minister talk about funding. Will he promise the people of Herefordshire that the Government will beat the previous Government's record of increasing funding annually on average in real terms by 3.1 per cent?
 Mr. Maples : We share the hon. Gentleman's objective of channelling any savings on bureaucracy that he can achieve in the Herefordshire health authority into improving care for people in Herefordshire. By what criteria would he want people in Herefordshire to judge and evaluate his party's stewardship of the national health service?
 Mr. John Maples  (Stratford-on-Avon) : The dilemma facing the Secretary of State in formulating policy is the same one that faced us. His policy objective is one that we share—to improve the quantity and quality of patient care—but that is difficult to achieve in the context of an aging population, medical advances, rising expectations and limited money. 800 801
 Mr. John Smith  (Vale of Glamorgan) : I thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me in what I consider to be a most historic debate in the House tonight. Every Welsh person will be looking to us tonight to vote for this radical Bill that will devolve power to our country and to our people. 851 852 Wales on Sunday
 Mr. Smith : The right hon. Gentleman makes a valid point. My role in this House is precious. I support this United Kingdom, and the assembly will not contradict its unity and the Union. If I have any say in it, I will try to sustain my role in the defence of this nation for some time; it is a role that I am proud to have. I see no contradiction.  [Interruption.] 853
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : Will the right hon. Gentleman assure me that the reforms to the functions of health authorities will ensure the future of joint hospitals trusts, such as the Mount Vernon and Watford Hospitals NHS trust in my constituency? There must co-operation between the commissioning health authorities in a locality rather than competition. The York model, together with the limitless funds supposedly available for general practitioners in the future, should ensure that they will be able to commission services in the local hospital, which my constituents and those in Watford greatly appreciate.
 Mr. Brazier : Is not one advantage of the trust system that it has allowed direct comparisons between hospitals? When a decision comes to be made on the future of the Kent and Canterbury hospital, should not the Secretary of State consider which is the most cost-efficient hospital in Kent, which hospital in Kent is able to recruit and retain the best staff and, above all, which hospital in east Kent has the support of the most general practitioners, who, after all, are the representatives of the patients?
 Mr. Brazier : The petition, which is signed by 27,000 people, states:
 To the honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the United Kingdom sheweth— The announcement by Her Majesty's Government of an intended review of its policy towards film and television signifies the growing acceptance that degrading and violent images can indeed desensitise and trigger acts of violence by both children and adults. Wherefore your petitioners pray that your Honourable House will:
 
 1) Reform the British Board of Film Classification, which is currently funded by the film industry and ipso facto not independent. 2) Establish, as part of such a reform a mechanism and office whereby specific film classifications might be routinely challenged by members of the public. 3) Establish a system of independent classification for films and other programmes shown on terrestrial and British-based cable television… 4) accept, on behalf of the British people, a responsibility to produce energetically, through European and international treaty, ways of enforcing publication of programme classification on satellite television companies… And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray.
 Mr. Julian Brazier  (Canterbury) : I wish to present a petition for the reform of the British Board of Film Classification and the introduction of a system of classification for television programmes.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Laurence Robertson  (Tewkesbury) : In view of the hon. Gentleman's remarks about the Conservatives' lack of representation in Wales and Scotland and our ability to be the party of the Union in those areas, is he saying that the Labour party is the party of the Union in Northern Ireland? If so, which party in Northern Ireland represents its views most closely?
 Mr. Laurence Robertson  (Tewkesbury) : It is a privilege to follow the hon. Member for Vale of Glamorgan (Mr. Smith), especially as I come from the wrong side of the Severn, as he would describe it. I am not Welsh and do not represent a Welsh constituency, although I am not that far off, but I wanted to take part in this debate to do my bit—it is only my bit—to try to preserve the United Kingdom and to protect it from sliding towards the great danger of becoming a set of regions within a federal Europe. 854
 Mr. Robertson : The Conservative Government were elected by the legitimate electoral means, as indeed were the present Labour Government, who achieved about 45 per cent. of the vote and are moving towards breaking up the United Kingdom and taking us headlong into a federal Europe. Do they intend to consult the electorate on that? I very much doubt it.
 Mr. Robertson : I thank the hon. Gentleman for that history lesson and bow to his great authority in the matter. As the United Kingdom is being broken up without any consultation of the English people, there should be some certainty before the Labour Government proceed down the road that they have chosen. 856
 Mr. Robertson : The United States is a completely different country. Some areas of the United States experience many problems that I would not want us to experience. It is not comparable. 855
 Mr. Öpik : Does the hon. Gentleman feel that the United States has been broken up in some way by the existence of a federal system?
 Mr. Öpik : The hon. Gentleman will remember my enormous relief that my prediction about a heavier defeat turned out to be unfounded. Would he agree that it is possible that the Liberal Democrats in those two constituencies voted yes while others may not have been persuaded?
 Mr. Lembit Öpik  (Montgomeryshire) : What possible relevance do the hon. Gentleman's comments have to the Bill and the debate today?
17.  Mr. Todd : What steps he is taking to improve the monitoring, analysis and reporting of  (a) (b)
 Mr. Todd : It is obvious that patients care most about successful outcomes. What steps are being taken to share the evidence of successful treatment and to compare the performance of different areas of the health service to
 794
 Mr. Michael Fabricant  (Lichfield) : That is a googly.
 Mr. Fabricant : Does the Minister realise that all the GP fundholders in Lichfield do not want to be retrained in new systems? They think that the internal market, as she and the spin doctors call it, is a mechanism for providing the best care for their patients. They do not want more training: they want the status quo. What does the Minister say to them?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Order. Before I call the next speaker, I remind the House that an awful lot of hon. Members want to speak. Extremely long speeches are being made, and it would be very helpful if they were a little shorter.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Will hon. Members leave the Chamber as quickly and quietly as possible?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : It will be for the convenience of the House to take motions 7 and 8 on European Communities together.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) :
I should inform the House that Madam Speaker has selected the committal motion in the name of the Secretary of State for Wales.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. We must have silence in the Chamber.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. The term "you" refers to the occupant of the Chair and implies that the hon. Gentleman is drawing me into his argument. Perhaps he could refrain from doing so.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Member for West Carmarthen and South Pembrokeshire (Mr. Ainger) knows better.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. There must be no interruptions from Front Benchers.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. There is far too much noise from both sides of the Chamber. Only one Member should be addressing the House.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. We must have good order in the House.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I do not want the hon. Member for Witney (Mr. Woodward) to be shouting from a sedentary position; he must be quiet. He has made his speech.
 Sir Michael Spicer : Is not the real unfairness of weighted capitation that which exists between expenditure on health in England and in Scotland? Is it not wrong that 25 per cent. more per capita is spent on health in Scotland than in England? Is that what the Deputy Prime Minister had in mind when he said that we were going to have a fundamental review of regional distribution of moneys?
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : As an honorary vice-president of the Royal College of Midwives, I congratulate the Secretary of State on reversing the fragmentation that was occurring in the national health service, and ensuring that it is an integrated, seamless service. Does he accept that there is some concern about the abolition of fundholding, because fundholding practices provide the widest range of medical
 806
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : Who is paying the bill? The Minister should answer.
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton : Does the Secretary of State accept that the East Cheshire NHS trust has been an outstanding success, not only because of its leadership and the superb support of the executive staff but because it is a united trust that deals with the range of NHS services, including acute services, community services and mental health services. That has been to the advantage of people in Macclesfield. I had a tremendous battle a few years ago to maintain a united trust against what was then the wisdom of separate trusts for virtually every arm of the health service.
 Mr. Ainger : Parliament is sovereign.
 Mr. Nick Ainger  (West carmarthen and South Pembrokeshire) : The leader of Plaid Cymru said that.
 Mr. St. Aubyn : Indeed. If people had felt strongly about devolution during those 18 years, they would have marched to Parliament to protest.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. St. Aubyn : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. 879 "If the Secretary of State considers that any action proposed to be taken by the Assembly would be incompatible with" "he may by order direct that the proposed action shall not be taken." "he may by order direct the Assembly to take… action" "he may by order revoke…legislation." 880
 Mr. St. Aubyn : It is not good value in Oswestry. I have been to Shropshire and the people there have a savvy sense of good value. Nor will it be good value in Wales, particularly for those who lose their jobs. Earlier this year, when I asked the Minister about the effects of the minimum wage on employment in the clothing industry in Wales, he could not give me a single figure. Perhaps he will be able to do a little better tonight.
 Mr. Nick St. Aubyn  (Guildford) : Unlike my hon. Friend the Member for North Shropshire (Mr. Paterson), I can claim no Welsh connections, but the part of Cornwall that my family comes from yields to no Welsh valley in the depth and strength of its Celtic roots. I have lived in Cornwall long enough to know how people on the periphery of our United Kingdom can feel neglected and misunderstood by central Government, whatever the reality of their situation. The hon. Member for East Londonderry (Mr. Ross) spoke of the Unionist perspective, and I speak from the perspective of another region of the United Kingdom. The Bill is about more than Wales. With respect to some hon. Members who have spoken, I have to say that the Bill is about how we represent every part of this great Union of ours.
 Mr. St. Aubyn : If the Minister is so confident of the case for the proposal, why did his Government not provide any money for the alternative argument put by the no campaign, so that the result of the referendum was accepted as fair by everyone?
 Mr. Evans : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Evans : Does the hon. Gentleman feel that he is fully reflecting the views of his constituents, who, as I recall, voted no by a very large majority on 18 September?
 Mr. Evans : In Cardiff, where the gravy train was expected to stop, 53 per cent. of the people did not even turn out to vote.
 Mr. Evans : Did they?
 Mr. Evans : The hon. Gentleman made a lengthy speech yesterday. The same question could be asked about much of his speech.
 Mr. Evans : No, of course not. I find it peculiar that everyone thought that a deal had been done with the Labour leader of Cardiff city council. Everyone thought
 824
 Mr. Evans : One would think that that party would make sensible suggestions about the Bill. How long does one need to sort out one's plans?
 Mr. Evans : I am more than happy to give way.
 Mr. Evans : Then let us have no more pretence that the advisory committee will represent all shades of political opinion. Let us make the position clear to the Secretary of State for Wales. He seems to be having a little difficulty here. As the hon. Member for Ogmore (Sir R. Powell) put it yesterday, all that we are asking for is a bit of chwarae teg, or fair play, on this. We do not want to hear that all political shades are being included when the Conservative party has not been asked for its nomination.
 Mr. Evans : Let us make it clear that there is no Conservative party representative on the committee.
 823
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : I am grateful for the chance to speak on the second day of the Second Reading debate. It is wonderful to follow the hon. Member for Neath (Mr. Hain). It is so good to hear the Neath accent again—although, strangely, despite my 30 years of living in Swansea, I had quite forgotten that it sounded like that. When I refer later in my speech to inward investment, I shall not be referring to the hon. Member for Neath. 821
 Mr. Evans : This simply will not do. As even the  Western Mail Western Mail.
 Mr. Evans : The major difference is that the representatives from the other two political parties are behaving as if they were sitting on the Government Benches. We already know that the Secretary of State for Wales likes to close down debate in his own party. Now he is trying to dictate who should be the Conservative nominees on various bodies. Will the Secretary of State take the opportunity to confirm whether the nominee is the hereditary peer mentioned in today's newspaper? Is that his Conservative nomination for the advisory committee?
 Mr. Evans : There the Secretary of State goes again, marginalising the House of Commons. He has been given the opportunity to tell it the membership of the Committee today, but no, the information will be spin-doctored away in the media. He should not talk to us about inclusivity.
 Mr. Evans : That argument may get the hon. Gentleman to sleep at night, but it does not wash with any of us on the Conservative Benches. 826 "The Secretary of State shall from time to time make payments to the Assembly out of money provided by Parliament of such amounts as he may determine."
 Mr. Evans : No, because the Barnett formula was created to ensure that there was a needs formula to protect the needs of the Welsh people and the Scottish people. Since the Government's devolution proposals have come to light with the referendums, a can of worms has been opened, and English people and English Members of Parliament are asking why so much money is going to Wales and to Scotland and not to their own areas. Such a debate is bound to ensue. If there is a review of the Barnett formula, we do not know what the outcome might be, because we have no guarantees. We do know, however, that hon. Members will fight hard to ensure that they win as much money as possible for their own areas, based on the needs of those areas.
 Mr. Evans : Population is used as a basis of determining need. In Committee, we will ensure that the needs basis will be continued into the future—something of which there is no guarantee. The Secretary of State is not dealing with the matter in the Bill, although he is doing so in the explanatory and financial memorandum— which, as he knows, has no status. One of the fears of the people of Wales is that, if there is a review, there could be a review downwards. What will happen then?
 Mr. Evans : I am very pleased that that reassures the Under-Secretary of State for Wales. I assure him that a can of worms has been opened. Has he considered the demands that will be made by the politicians who will be elected to the London assembly? They will demand a big slice of the cake. Whereas Labour and other alliance Members think only of how large their slice of the cake will be, Conservative Members fight to ensure that the cake becomes larger, so that everyone can have a greater slice of it. 828
 Mr. Evans : Yes, most of his powers. "equality of opportunity for all people"? 829
 Mr. Evans : The areas broadly represented by the Liberal Democrats voted no. The hon. Gentleman and his hon. Friends know that, because I appeared on a television programme with the hon. Member for Montgomeryshire (Mr. Öpik) until 4 o'clock on the night of the referendum. Nobody was less pleased than he was when his area's result came through.
 Mr. Owen Paterson  (North Shropshire) : How does the Minister square that with the statement this morning in
 819
 Mr. Paterson : I apologise, Mr. Deputy Speaker. 878
 Mr. Owen Paterson  (North Shropshire) : I shall enjoy this opportunity to put the Conservative party's case, as we have been vilified for two days. I am part Welsh: my mother's family comes from Wrexham, my house looks across the border and I cross into Wales every day. 875
 Mr. Paterson : As the hon. Lady's constituents voted no, I shall speak for them. I also speak for business, having spent my whole career in business. "It has not been proven to us that it is good value …Many businesses see it as an overgrown local authority, a large county council. It is very difficult to see why that is going to be beneficial." "delivered very good value for money in most instances". 877
 Mr. Paterson : No, it is not. The constitution of the United Kingdom belongs to all the people of the United Kingdom. Labour is desperately hanging on to the tiddly widdly majority it achieved and ignoring the real result. The eastern side of Wales voted overwhelmingly against an assembly—for example, Monmouthshire at 67.9 per cent. and Vale of Glamorgan at 63.3 per cent. I will not list all the areas, but I cannot resist mentioning Cardiff—the capital city where the gravy train will spill forth even though the negotiations have gone wrong—where there is not overwhelming support for an assembly. "Devolution will overburden business with costly bureaucracy, which will slow down and politicise important economic decisions." The Guardian "There is no economic imperative for establishing a Welsh Assembly."
 Mr. Paterson : That is a pretty feeble endorsement. "It has not been proven to us that it is good value."
 Mr. Paterson : There are rumours in Oswestry that the carpet will cost £125 per foot. Is that good value?
 Mr. Paterson : Why, then, does the Confederation of British Industry fear delay in decision making from the WDA?
 Mr. Nicholls : The hon. Gentleman surely cannot deny that, with an aging population and a declining work force, the quality of long-term care will depend increasingly on the ability of people to make some provision for their own health care. Does he not realise that the Chancellor's savage attack on pensions and savings will make that harder—or do Ministers believe that, for the wealthy at least, quality long-term care is best provided by quality, tax-free offshore dosh in the style of the Paymaster General?
 Mr. Boateng : Only a discredited relic of the previous Tory Administration could come forward with such a comment. This Government are giving new hope to the elderly. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor is helping the elderly with their fuel bills. We are ensuring that the welfare of elderly people rises to the top of the nation's priorities, rather than remaining at the bottom.
 Mr. Boateng : We share my hon. Friend's concern that the matter should be brought to a speedy resolution. Long-term care for the elderly is a matter of the utmost importance. We have asked the royal commission to report within 12 months. We are determined to replace
 782
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Paul Boateng) : We are introducing a range of measures to improve the quality of long-term care, including a royal commission on long-term care for the elderly, a long-term care charter, priorities and planning guidance on continuing health care needs for the NHS and proposals for independent regulatory arrangements for care homes and domiciliary care.
 Mr. Boateng : My hon. Friend makes his point well. It is important that the consultation is wide ranging and takes into account all representations. GPs have an important contribution to make and I look forward enormously to considering their representations on this important issue. Bearing in mind the state of the finances of Worcestershire health authority, I hope that he welcomes the additional £1.5 million that the new Labour Government have made available to the authority to cope with winter pressures. That is the difference between the Labour Government and the Conservatives; they mismanage, but we manage more effectively.
 Mr. Boateng : The hon. Gentleman and my hon. Friend make a forceful point which will be taken into account in due course, along with all the other representations made during the formal consultation. Should the matter come to Ministers, we look forward to giving those representations the weight that is their due.
 Mr. Boateng : The Department has received a number of letters from members of the public, councillors and local Members of Parliament on the future of Kidderminster hospital and health services in Worcestershire generally. As part of its strategic review of services across the whole county, Worcestershire health authority will conduct a formal public consultation during which all of these representations will be taken into account.
 Mr. Keetch : I thank the Minister for his answer. Does he agree that the Herefordshire health authority has the widespread support of the people of Herefordshire? Does he further agree that the implementation next April of the Herefordshire unitary authority, with boundaries coterminous with the health authority, will provide an opportunity for excellent co-operation between the local authority and the health authority? Will he give a commitment that his Department will do everything it can to support such co-operation?
2.  Mr. Keetch : What plans he has to reduce bureaucracy in the Herefordshire health authority. [18228]
 Mr. Tyler : I accept that the Secretary of State would not wish to impose amalgamations, but will he encourage amalgamations where small trusts are presently duplicating their administrative costs? If so, will he give some indication of how quickly he would expect savings to take place, especially bearing in mind his comments earlier when he referred to the need to expand front-line services and to encourage the creation and maintenance of local community hospitals? In Cornwall, as the Secretary of State knows, we are currently addressing that problem.
7.  Mr. Tyler : If he has reached conclusions on the amalgamation of  (a) (b)
 Mr. Paul Tyler  (North Cornwall)   rose—
 Mr. Hain : No, it would not. It would be open to the advisory committee, and subsequently the Standing Orders Commission, to make recommendations in the
 849
 Mr. Hain : As the hon. Gentleman was elected by only 36 per cent. of his electorate, does he consider that he was validly elected?
 Mr. Hain : That statement has not been repeated by many, if any, business men across Wales. They see the enormous advantages to Welsh businesses, small and large, of a unified powerhouse agency, especially with the development of English regional development agencies, which I welcome. I am sure that Mr. Barber does not speak for the whole of business in Wales. 820
 Mr. Hain : Not nearer than Neath, which I represent—with a record majority at the general election, I might add—but I none the less welcome any more spirited interventions from the right hon. Gentleman. 817 The Daily Telegraph "break with the past and reinvent themselves"  The old name is potentially damaged goods". 818
 Mr. Hain : I welcome the hon. Gentleman's spirited attempt to prop up the empty Opposition Benches. I was merely replying to points raised by Opposition Members in yesterday's debate, in accordance with the courtesies of the House.
 Mr. Hain : My hon. Friend always asks penetrating and well-researched questions. I think that he will find that the answer is contained in the memorandum to which he referred.
 Mr. Hain : I note that the hon. Gentleman is even laughing at his own lines. Is he suggesting that my right hon. Friend should have agreed to pay more for Cardiff city hall than the independently valued market price?
 Mr. Hain : My hon. Friend's speech is, as always, tell in and eloquent. It is a welcome change from what we have heard so far from Conservative Members. I hope that this will meet my hon. Friend's point: if there were to be a dispute between a Whitehall Department and the Welsh Assembly, it would be for the Secretary of State to talk to his Cabinet colleagues and to represent the interests of Wales and the assembly in the Cabinet. That is one of the important residual functions that will remain.
 Mr. Hain : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for giving way, and I am sorry to detain the House, but that is sheer gibberish. He does not understand the Barnett formula, and I urge him to study it. As he is talking about needs, I should point out that Wales's GDP is 18 per cent. less than the English average. GDP in south-east England, which he mentioned, is 14 per cent. above the English average. If there were a genuinely needs-based assessment of resource distribution in Great Britain, Wales would do very well in it.
 Mr. Hain : Will the hon. Gentleman confirm that his understanding of the Barnett formula is that it is needs-based? Is that what he is saying?,
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Peter Hain) : On 18 September the people of Wales backed the Government in creating a modern new democracy for Wales. They voted for a new Wales and a new future. They demonstrated that we in Wales are ready for the new century, more confident about ourselves than in the past. 816
 Mr. Pike : In the past, has not federation between NHS trusts on fairly routine services totally ignored the views of the public in consultation exercises? Do not most people want such services to be provided locally and not far from where they live?
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan  (Cardiff, West) : The hon. Gentleman, as hon. Member for Ribble Valley, will be aware of how important defence procurement is in overall public expenditure. His constituency probably receives more public expenditure in defence procurement per head than any other constituency in the western world. He has made himself known for lobbying for more public expenditure for Ribble Valley and for his constituents who work at British Aerospace factories in the Preston area. I think that he will accept those points. Does he
 827
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan : That is meat and drink.
 Mr. Morgan : What about the former Secretary of State and international law?
 Mr. Morgan : The administrative devolution that we have had in Wales for 33 years has permitted Secretaries of State for Wales to deviate substantially from UK policy, even in international treaty obligations. There was, for instance, the well known example of "Redwooditis", as my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary, the Member for Neath (Mr. Hain), called it. During his period of office, the right hon. Member for Wokingham (Mr. Redwood) declared a free-for-all on out-of-town shopping stores in Wales, even though the Secretary of State for the Environment, whose policy had tremendous commercial importance for all planning inspectors and inquiries, believed, following the previous Prime Minister's signing of the Rio treaty on biodiversity and global warming, that we should be against out-of-town shopping centres on principle. I would not like my hon. Friend to give the impression that none of these fudged areas are to be found under administrative devolution—things can only improve under democratic devolution.
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan : You were not there.
 Mr. Morgan : The hon. Gentleman is talking rubbish.
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan : On what evidence does the hon. Gentleman say that my electorate rejected the proposals for a Welsh Assembly?
 Mr. Morgan : There are four constituencies in Cardiff, which means that there are many possibilities as to the
 839
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan : My hon. Friend the Member for Conwy (Mrs. Williams) spoke yesterday.
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan : That is quite unhistorical. The first demands for an all-Wales collective body were made back in the 1880s by Joseph Chamberlain, a Birmingham Member of Parliament and a prominent Liberal. Surely the hon. Gentleman realises—the hon. Member for Meirionnydd Nant Conwy (Mr. Llwyd) will correct me if I am wrong—that the Welsh nationalist party was not even founded until the 1920s, some 40 years later. His proposition is therefore absurdly unfactual.
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan : May I add to the Britishness of the issue raised by my hon. Friend? She has been talking about the first recorded Welsh poem, "The Song of Aneurin", which dates from about 600 AD. There are two curious facts about it. First, not only were England and Wales Welsh-speaking at that time—so was lowland Scotland. Aneurin was born and based in Edinburgh. The court he had left in order to fight the invading Anglo-Saxons at Catterick was in Edinburgh, because, as I have said, southern Scotland was Welsh-speaking. It is that Aneurin after whom Aneurin Bevan is named because David Bevan, Aneurin Bevan's father, was interested in early Welsh poetry.
 Mr. Burden : Has not one of the worst aspects of the internal market been the way in which it has set GP against GP and hospital against hospital? In overcoming that internal market, is there not an important strategic
 784
 Mr. Livsey : The Liberal party has an honourable record of democracy. The Liberals were not just pursuing the Irish question in the 1880s and 1890s. They wanted home rule for Scotland and Wales too, albeit in the context of the United Kingdom. Had those policies been pushed through, and had Gladstone not been thwarted at the time, these islands would have been far more peaceful than they have been.
 Mr. Livsey : Does the hon. Gentleman recollect that, during the referendum campaign, the CBI was split over
 876
 Mr. Richard Livsey  (Brecon and Radnorshire)   rose—
 Mr. Livsey : The hon. Gentleman has implied that the majority of Liberal Democrats voted no on 18 September. What is his evidence? There is none to prove that that is so.
 Mr. Livsey   rose—
 Mr. Richard Shepherd  (Aldridge-Brownhills) : Why is the Minister so anxious about the vote? He attacks everyone left, right and centre, and the witchfinder general of Wales tries to extirpate Labour Members who voted no. There must have been large numbers of those—250,000 more than the Conservative vote. What is behind all this? There was a massive rejection on the day: 75 per cent., given the chance to vote yes, did not do so. The Minister is trying to make 75 per cent. seem insubstantial as against his own 25 per cent. What is it all about?
 Mr. Shepherd : The Welsh electorate were directly asked whether they supported the Government's proposals. Only 25 per cent. said yes and 25 per cent. said no. As for the 50 per cent. who did not vote, every constitutional arrangement from that in ancient Greece onwards has accepted that that does not represent support for a proposition. That is the reality.
 Mr. Shepherd : I am told that 55.6 per cent. voted no, so it is difficult to reach that conclusion. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Shepherd : I base it on the turnout in the city that the hon. Gentleman represents.
 Mr. Shepherd : I quite understand that Labour Members are enormously sensitive about this. They have to get over the fact that only 25 per cent. voted for the proposals.
 Mr. Shepherd : The Under-Secretary must have heard four or five interventions by my hon. Friend the Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis) who tried to point out—I realise that the distinction might be too fine for the hon. Gentleman—the difference between a constitutional settlement, or a validation of what is attempting to be a constitutional settlement, and the ordinary processes of democracy and the election of Members of Parliament. 840
 Mr. Richard Shepherd  (Aldridge-Brownhills) : The hon. Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney (Mr. Rowlands) made a distinguished speech. I say that with diffidence because to praise a Welsh Member from a different tradition often causes some difficulty. Encapsulated in the hon. Gentleman's arguments were many of the genuine concerns about the proposal for devolved government for Wales. 838 [Interruption.] "What is sauce for the backward-looking, scaremongering, no-voting neanderthals is also sauce for the forward-looking, yes-voting alliance, which believes in democracy in Wales."—[ Official Report
 Mr. Shepherd : I merely postulate that perhaps the Welsh electorate are rather wise. We are told that the start-up costs will be considerable, and that the annual running costs might be between £15 million and £20 million. I think that most people can see that, to use a phrase that has already been used by a Labour Member and which stuck in my mind, we are talking about a class that is trying to get its bottom on the Consolidated Fund.
 Mr. Shepherd : The language is common. I pick on Plaid Cymru only because it launched into that attack. I just know that there is nothing consensual. 841
 Mr. Roger Gale  (North Thanet) : The right hon. Gentleman has stressed the need for the health service to reflect patients' needs. That is a view which I share entirely. What safeguards does he intend to build into his system to ensure that medical freemasonry and cosy relationships between some GPs and some consultants do not militate against patients' interests and choice?
10.  Mr. Gale : How many NHS building projects costing over £1 million have been completed since 1979. [18236]
 Mr. Gale : Will the right hon. Gentleman acknowledge that £25 million of the money spent during that period was spent creating a full district hospital and 24-hour accident and emergency service at the hospital in Margate that proudly bears the name of Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother? Will he join me in congratulating the medical staff, nurses and administration team who have achieved a state-of-the-art hospital that serves the people of Dover, Deal, South Thanet, North Thanet, Herne Bay and other areas of south Kent? Will he take the earliest opportunity to ensure that the work of that hospital is not only continued but enhanced?
 Mr. Davies : Of course it is different in Scotland. The members bring to the committee their personal expertise and point of view. They do not represent vested political interests.
 Mr. Davies : I am afraid that the hon. Gentleman is far wide of the mark. The people who sit on the advisory committee will not represent anyone. They will not represent political parties or vested interests.
 Mr. Davies : If the hon. Gentleman will contain himself, I shall explain that the purpose of the advisory committee is to offer advice to me so that I can offer advice to the statutory commission which will prepare the standing orders. The committee will offer advice to me as Secretary of State, not to the House of Commons.
 Mr. Davies : As the hon. Gentleman wants to take the debate a stage further, perhaps I should explain that the committee will be my advisory committee. The purpose of it will be to consult people in Wales and offer advice to me.
 Mr. Davies : The hon. Gentleman obviously has such a thin speech that he needs me to pad it out for him. I can confirm to him that the first meeting of the advisory committee will take place in Cardiff on Friday.
 822
 Mr. Davies : As the hon. Gentleman was with the right hon. Member for Devizes at the time of that conversation, he will be in a position to confirm that I invited the right hon. Gentleman to come to see me at the Welsh Office to discuss a range of issues that were likely to be before Parliament this Session. It is a matter of regret to me that the right hon. Gentleman declined that invitation. The fact that the other two party leaders accepted my invitation and have been involved in the consultation process is a demonstration of their wisdom, and the foolishness and short-sightedness of the right hon. Gentleman who leads for the Conservative party on these matters.
 The Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Ron Davies) : I am more than happy to confirm that I have received a parliamentary question from the hon. Gentleman and, of course, I shall give it careful consideration and let him have a full reply. The point that I make is the one that I made in yesterday's debate to the right hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. Ancram). I invited him to the Welsh Office at the same time as I invited the hon. Member for Brecon and Radnorshire (Mr. Livsey) and the right hon. Member for Caernarfon (Mr. Wigley). They came and discussed matters with me, but the right hon. Gentleman chose not to come. In his absence, I could hardly have a consultation with him.
 Mr. Davies : There will be no statement on reserved powers, because the scheme that we envisage works on a transfer of powers. Before the Committee stage begins,
 833
 Mr. Ron Davies : My hon. Friend's last assertion is right: no one would claim that the Welsh Assembly will have the ability to deal with matters such as BSE; at least, not by statutory action. I would, however, draw to my hon. Friend's attention two important principles. First, the whole devolution construct is based on the premise that the powers that I exercise will be transferred to the assembly. My hon. Friend, on the other hand, is referring to powers that I exercise jointly with other Ministers. We have always made it clear that certain elements, especially to do with human and animal health, will have to be examined carefully.
 Mr. Ron Davies : Most of them.
 Mr. Ron Davies : It is not needed.
 The Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Ron Davies) : Will the right hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Campbell : My hon. Friend is obviously aware of the warm welcome for the royal commission. Will he assure the House that, when it is set up, he will hurry it up and urge it to reach its conclusions speedily so that care for the elderly can be dealt with as soon as possible?
4.  Mr. Ronnie Campbell : What action he intends to take to improve the quality of long-term care. [18230]
 Mr. Shaun Woodward  (Witney) : I am grateful for the chance to take part in what is undoubtedly an historic debate. There is no doubt that anyone glancing through "A Voice for Wales" will find it superficially attractive. The Prime Minister talks eloquently about the opportunity for the people of Wales to have control back over their own lives. The Secretary of State waxes lyrical about it being an opportunity. The rhetoric in the document is high, but its reality is low and its logic is deeply flawed. 881 "This United Kingdom Parliament is sovereign. The provisions of the Bill do not challenge that sovereignty in any way—nor could they."—[ Official Report 882 "from time to time…as he may determine."
 Mr. Shaun Woodward  (Witney) : A narrow majority.
 Mr. Hughes : Will the Secretary of State say whether, as well as his good aspirations, the Government intend to
 804
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : A serious White Paper on the future of the NHS is very welcome. As today's successor to the party which was the other parent of the NHS, we will always be constructive in battling for the best publicly funded national health service. We will support the right hon. Gentleman and his colleagues in everything they do to achieve that. 803 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Simon Hughes : I am sure that the Minister will agree that one of the most common pressures on NHS trusts is that of shortage of staff. Given that his answers and official figures show that, at the moment, in England alone, we are short of about 1,000 GPs and there are about 1,500 hospital doctor and more than 8,000 nurse and midwife vacancies, will the Minister assure the House that the health service will be given the money to recruit and fill all those thousands of vacant posts?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : What is to be the form and function of the proposed National Institute for Clinical Excellence?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker. You did not ignore Scottish Members of Parliament.
 Mr. Dalyell : From his experience of ministerial office over a period of years, can my hon. Friend tell me to whom civil servants owe their career under these proposals? Is it to the Welsh Office or to Whitehall? Every civil servant is human and must have in their mind where their career is coming from.
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : Before the Minister leaves the question of poverty, could he clarify something? We received in the Library today a document entitled, "Principles to govern determination of the block budgets for the Scottish Parliament and National Assembly for Wales". In paragraph 8b, on the Barnett formula, it states:
 "action taken by the Scottish or Welsh administrations in a devolved area has knock-on costs for the UK Government or vice versa."
 Mr. Dalyell : Is there not a genuine problem in that the very real difficulties of Welsh agriculture, which we all know about and some of us entirely accept, will be solved only by action by the Council of Ministers? The Welsh Assembly will not be represented in the Council of Ministers. When it comes to a question of power, how are the problems to which the hon. Gentleman rightly refers going to be solved?
 Mr. Dalyell : I want to put a different historical point of view on two brief points. First, those to whom the hon. Gentleman referred, of whom I would be one, did not bring down the Labour Government, as it was not we who persuaded James Callaghan to delay the election from October 1978 until March 1979. Secondly, as I have told George Cunningham, I greatly regret ever having introduced a threshold, because it was seen as moving the goalposts and changing the rules, and the referendum result would have been much more decisive for the noes—at that time—had it not been introduced. That is the history as I see it.
 Mr. Dalyell : The same will be true of all party members, including Conservative party members.
 Mr. Dalyell : How will the farmers get a stronger voice in Brussels?
 Mr. Dalyell : I want to put on the record the fact that we were not paid any more.
 Mr. Rowlands : It is to the home civil service, and that is a collective. One cannot say that Welsh Office civil servants do not admirably fulfil their functions in Wales, and many might see most of their career structure to be within Welsh administration, but some people come and go. Some of the most distinguished permanent secretaries that we have had and still have come from other Departments. That will change fundamentally. The new civil service of the assembly will be accountable and
 835
 Mr. Rowlands : I believe that in a devolved system, which I support, Wales will be run by Welsh men and women who have been elected by the Welsh electorate. That is the simple and basic criterion.
 Mr. Rowlands : I hate to tell my hon. Friend that, in all my understanding and experience of government, without Executive functions and a budget, one is pretty well ignored. It was interesting that the Institute of Welsh Affairs mentioned this, and I can remind my hon. Friend about it. I do not usually agree with the institute on these matters, but the penny is dropping in this document. It says:
 "It must be borne in mind that after devolution the Secretary of State will be left with little more administrative support than a central secretariat of perhaps 20 or 30 civil servants. In the longer run too, it is questionable whether there is room for two politicians who both claim to represent and speak for the interests of Wales— the leader of the Assembly and the Secretary of State. And in any case, after devolution the Secretary of State will have lost those direct responsibilities over such matters as health and education that currently give him much of his influence in the Cabinet." 837
 Mr. Rowlands : I would not interpret it in that way. There are other clauses in the Bill which make it quite clear that the Secretary of State or Ministers will reserve all their rights over international relations and external relations. We can check that out in Committee, but I would not reach the same conclusion as the hon. Gentleman. 836
 Mr. Rowlands : We clearly need the list as quickly as possible. It is important to define the various roles of the Secretary of State, central Government and the assembly.
 Mr. Rowlands : My hon. Friend prompts me to move on to a fundamental point. Nonconformity is generally to be encouraged. When I had the privilege of serving in the Welsh Office, my Secretary of State told me never to conform and always to force Whitehall to make the case for conformity. That was a wonderful remit for a junior Welsh Office Minister. Subsequently, we handled the Community Land Act 1975 completely differently and created a land authority for Wales which has survived the test of time and is now to be incorporated in the new economic powerhouse—so I have always been a great supporter of the idea of nonconformity. 834
 Mr. Rowlands : I assume that the former Secretary of State did not breach international treaty law. I do not know whether anybody sued him, but he must have managed either to persuade his colleagues or to operate the policy off his own bat without anybody complaining.
 Mr. Rowlands : I shall give way in a moment.
 Mr. Rowlands : I am glad of that statement, but these are not matters of mere detail. They are fundamental, as they define the functions of the Secretary of State for Wales at Westminster and in Whitehall and the functions that are to be devolved. That means that we shall need a list or schedule of reserved powers as soon as possible.
 Mr. Rowlands : It certainly is. 832 "matters relating to animal or human health are likely to be reserved."—[ Official Report
 Mr. Ted Rowlands  (Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney) : I tell the hon. Member for Ribble Valley (Mr. Evans) that anyone with a sense of the history of this century should be impressed by the amazing role, function and achievements of the Conservative and Unionist party. Because of those achievements, I should have thought that, from that Dispatch Box, the House would have heard expressed a huge amount of humility about the way in which that party has reduced a great institution to the rump it has become over the past 18 years.
 Mr. Rowlands : I understand that the Labour party does not fight elections formally as the Labour party in Northern Ireland and that the other parties follow the same policy, but that is not relevant to the point that from the Conservatives' Front-Bench spokesman should have come rather more humility than we heard today. The hon. Member for Ribble Valley contributed little, either to his party's cause, or to the debate on the Bill. 830 "To what extent will the Assembly in practice be permitted to examine policy proposals which are still being formulated by a Ministry, since it will have no formal institutional links?" "Are all Assembly members to be treated as in the same position visa vis the Government machine as Ministers who are expected to keep confidential the discussions that precede the decisions as to the exact contents of a Bill?" 831 "Against this background the Secretary of State may be drawn into the role of becoming the main link between the Assembly and Whitehall, with a consequent weakening of the direct role of the Assembly and its civil servants in negotiating on policy matters with Whitehall departments." "With all these issues and questions we are operating in uncharted territory involving constitutional innovations that will need clarification and perhaps certain statutory guarantees."
 Mr. Tony Baldry  (Banbury) : From reading the White Paper, it would appear that the Secretary of State is not proposing any substantial reduction in the number of NHS trusts, but rather that trusts co-operate in primary care plans and various other things through health authorities. Will he give thought to ensuring that proposals to reorganise NHS trusts are put on hold while implications are considered?
 Mr. Tony Clarke : Does my hon. Friend agree that we must consider not only what is happening now but the legacy left by the previous Government, especially relating to debt in trusts? Many trusts, especially those in Northampton in my constituency, are unable to take advantage of our new plans due to the legacy of debt. Will he comment on the desirability of allowing, in special circumstances, extensions to the time taken to pay off debt, which will allow trusts to plan health care more effectively and thus reduce waiting lists?
 Mr. William Ross  (East Londonderry) : Surely the hon. Gentleman's perusal of what has been proposed for Wales drives him to the same inescapable conclusion as the Northern Ireland Government in Stormont was driven to many years ago. If a devolved system is to work in a unitary state, it must be run by Unionists. In that context, will the Labour party in the Welsh Assembly and the Scottish Parliament be a Unionist party?
 Mr. Ross : There would be no devolved assemblies if there were no nationalists demanding them.
 Mr. William Ross  (East Londonderry) : There will be those who are somewhat surprised to find an Ulster Unionist Member of Parliament taking part in this debate, but I speak as a United Kingdom Member of Parliament. I also speak as a Member of Parliament representing the one part of the United Kingdom that has experience of a devolved institution. "the new context created by devolution in Scotland and Wales can be very helpful to us. We need to take account of the new institutions there in our thinking. We have a great deal to learn from what is happening there. 868 869
 Mr. Ross : There was plenty of good will.
 Mr. William Ross : The hon. Gentleman will recall that the Stormont parliamentary system had control of agriculture in Northern Ireland. If it was still in existence, does he believe that Northern Ireland would have got out of the mess created by BSE, or would it have been caught by the general ban on United Kingdom beef products?
 Mr. Ross : It is evident that the Liberal party has learnt nothing from the passage of time. Liberals have never really understood the driving force behind Irish nationalism and republicanism. 870
 Mr. Ross : I am surprised at the hon. Gentleman, given the Liberals' reputation for supporting nationalism in Ireland and elsewhere in the United Kingdom.
 Mr. Ross : This is rapidly turning into a "one man against the rest" type of debate—possibly with one exception.
 Mr. Griffiths : The reality is that the House enacted a referendum Bill that set the rules. Those rules were met, and however much the hon. Gentleman may be disconcerted by the result, and upset that we did not set the sort of thresholds that he recalls from ancient Greece or wherever, the fact is that this House enacted a Bill to which the Welsh people responded positively. We are now moving forward.
 Mr. Griffiths : The point is that the Bill will give the people of Wales what they have lacked for so long.
 888
 Mr. Griffiths : I thank Labour Members for their contributions. I also thank the hon. Members for Ynys Môn (Mr. Jones) and for Meirionnydd Nant Conwy (Mr. Llwyd). While I see little prospect of the fast-track procedure becoming reality, it is at least something that can be considered, a constructive contribution to the debate. All we have had from the Tories is a look back to the old British empire and the way in which the Union was organised in the 19th century.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Wales (Mr. Win Griffiths) : We have had another day of wide-ranging, interesting debate. It is striking that the
 887 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Griffiths : One or two members of the CBI have said that, but let me make it clear that many other business people in Wales take exactly the opposite view. It is all right for one Member from north Shropshire to call in aid one or two members of the CBI, but there are dozens of others who take an opposite view.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Griffiths : Given the commitment in the Bill to consult business interests, I am quite confident that the Welsh Assembly will be able to help the WDA and other organisations committed to economic development in Wales to ensure that we are successful. Let there be no doubt about that.
 Mr. Griffiths : I am glad that my right hon. Friend raised that issue. [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh?"] It is all part of the same thing. We need to be quite clear about the Barnett formula. Concordats agreed between the assembly and any Department will be matters for them to decide, and there will be no compulsion about them. It will be a question of seeking agreement, to ensure that the machinery of government continues working smoothly. 891 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Griffiths : The WDA will not be inhibited in its role, and it will continue—in the catching phrase used by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State—to bat for Britain. Let us be clear that there will be no restrictions on the way in which the WDA works after an assembly is created.
 Mr. Griffiths : Because we gave no money for the yes campaign, either. The truth of the matter is that each campaign had to provide its own resources.
 Mr. Griffiths : In a moment. I want to deal with another point. 889
 Mr. Griffiths : It is not complaining. Let me make that absolutely clear.
 Mr. Griffiths : The WDA and any other regional development agency in the United Kingdom will be bound exactly by the same rules that cover everyone else. There will be no essential difference; everything that Wales and the WDA have done so far has been within the rules which exist at British Government and European Union level.
 Mr. Griffiths : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. The right hon. Member for Devizes will have an opportunity to explore these issues in Committee. 893
 Mr. Griffiths : The right hon. Gentleman—
 Mr. Griffiths : It might not be simple for the right hon. Gentleman, but it is quite simple. [HON. MEMBERS: "Answer."] I have explained it to him, and that is all he needs— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Griffiths : I thought that perhaps he was one of the wild men of Witney. Nevertheless, I remind him that, although the Barnett formula has not been enshrined in any legislation or mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of any Bill, it has managed to survive both Conservative and Labour Administrations. The fact that we have gone out of our way to explain it in this Bill's explanatory memorandum rather indicates how strongly we feel that it will continue to play its part in determining the block grant for Wales.
 Mr. Griffiths : The right hon. Gentleman is trying to make a mountain out of what is not even a molehill. The Government are clearly committed to the Barnett formula. If he is saying that the Conservative party and a possible future Conservative Government are not committed to the Barnett formula, I invite him to tell the House. The Labour Government are committed to the Barnett formula, and, as far as I am concerned, the Conservative party has not only been committed to it but will continue to be so committed. If Conservative Members are not committed to it, perhaps they will tell us why in the Bill's Committee stage. Let us be clear about the matter.
 Mr. Griffiths : I will give you an example if you promise that, when I have answered, you will give your commitment to the Barnett formula—I am sorry, Mr. Deputy Speaker—the right hon. Gentleman will give his commitment to the Barnett formula. If, for example,
 892
 Mr. Griffiths : Quite simply—perhaps the right hon. Gentleman did not realise this—the paper includes all the ground rules on which the Barnett formula operates.
 Mr. Griffiths : The motion will allow key clauses to be debated in a Committee of the whole House. Those will be clause 1, on the assembly itself, which the Opposition specifically requested to be taken on the Floor of the House; clause 4, on the membership of and election to the assembly; clause 22, on the functions to be exercised by the assembly; clause 58, which deals with internal working procedures of the assembly; clause 80, on the assembly's financial arrangements; and clause 118, on the reform of the Welsh Development Agency.
 Mr. Win Griffiths : I beg to move,
 That (1) Clause Nos. 1, 4, 22, 58, 80 and 118 be committed to a Committee of the whole House; (2) the remainder of the Bill be committed to a Standing Committee; and (3) when the provisions of the Bill considered, respectively,
by the Committee of the whole House and by the Standing Committee have been reported to the House, the Bill be proceeded with as if the Bill had been reported as a whole to the House from the Standing Committee. 901 [Interruption.] [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
 Ann Keen  (Brentford and Isleworth) : On behalf of community nurses and other health professionals, I congratulate my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State. He is proud, we are proud, and I know that Aneurin Bevan would be particularly proud. I welcome the shared role of community nurses and general practitioners. Will my right hon. Friend enlarge on how he envisages the development of the role of community nurses?
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : Madam Speaker, your announcement signals the end of the distinguished period of service to the House of Sir Donald Limon, and will be heard with regret by all. I look forward to expressing my appreciation of Sir Donald's work when we debate a motion on his retirement. Our normal practice is to postpone until then the tributes that we would like to pay to him.
 Mrs. Anne Campbell : Is my hon. Friend aware of the warm and widespread support for the Government's proposals to reduce bureaucracy and administrative costs in the national health service, which has already contributed to additional money being made available for the treatment of breast cancer? That is very warmly welcomed in my Cambridge constituency.
 Mrs. Gwyneth Dunwoody  (Crewe and Nantwich) : If something is worth having, it is worth waiting for—and I suppose that that includes Adjournment debates. "Over the last decade and a half the UK has once again become recognised as a major player in the global automotive industry. We now have the most diverse automotive industry in Europe." "More automotive companies are choosing to locate in the UK than anywhere else in Europe." 919 920 "deeply committed to the British manufacturing industry… Vickers has invested very significant sums of money to ensure the survival of the business. Since the low point of the last recession, we have invested heavily in both new products and much improved facilities". 921
 Ms Lawrence : That is reassuring.
 Ms Lawrence : In the approaches to the Pennines, which is the area from which I originally come, farmers have a system for counting sheep which uses specific words. Those words are almost identical to mediaeval Welsh, lending support to the fact "that much of Britain owes a great deal to Wales.
 Ms Lawrence : Whatever, the process of government evolved. It did so in the past and will continue to do so in future.
 Ms Lawrence : I will not give way at this stage. 873 "The success of Wales depends on the vitality of its local democracy." "great opportunity to provide better government in Wales and a strong voice for Wales in Britain and in Europe." 874
 Ms Lawrence : Indeed, we are a multicultural society. I was not referring at any stage to invasion from abroad; I was simply trying to impress upon Conservative Members the debt that they owe to the Welsh nation for what England, and Britain generally, has become. 872 "Let there be no doubt, the success of Wales depends on the vitality of its local democracy. It is only through democracy that people in Wales gain the experience of sharing in the control of all those circumstances that affect them as individuals and as communities."
 Ms Lawrence : As a colleague on the Welsh Affairs Committee, I remind the hon. Gentleman that I pointed out that part of the evidence given in public by Dr. Haywood was incorrect. She raised the issue of planning permission for a new power station in the Pembroke area and said that she believed it to be a planning issue. If fact, the matter would have been determined by the Department of Trade and Industry under the Electricity Acts. I found that disconcerting and said so. If that is her level of understanding of the responsibility of an assembly, it is difficult to take account of opinion based on that misunderstanding.
 Ms Jackie Lawrence  (Preseli Pembrokeshire) : I take great exception to any suggestion that I support the break-up of the Union. I am sure that all Labour Members agree that that is not our intention at all. The Bill will strengthen the Union, by virtue of the fact that one of the main threats to democracy in our country has been the feeling that people have been disfranchised for the past 20 years in Wales. Consequently, they have failed to turn out at elections, except for general elections, because they have felt that their voice has not been heard. This Bill will redress that grievance and give them a real chance to feel that they are part of government. 871
 Ms Lawrence : I thank my hon. Friend for that contribution.
 Mrs. Humble : I thank my hon. Friend for that reply. In examining the role of NHS trusts, will he look especially at major tourist destinations such as Blackpool, which provide for the health care of large numbers of visitors as well as the resident population?
6.  Mrs. Humble : What changes he intends to make to the current role of NHS trusts in shaping local health care. [18232]
 Mrs. Ewing : We are the only two Scottish Members here, Tam.
 Mrs. Margaret Ewing  (Moray) : This is a genuine point of order, Madam Speaker. We have listened to
 812
 Mrs. Roe : Will the Minister confirm that this is the only occasion on which the Government will ask outside groups to fund a core health service activity?
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley : Is the Secretary of State aware that Professor Howard Glenerster has suggested that GP fundholding has caused a shift in the balance of power back to GPs for the first time this century? Is the right hon. Gentleman committed to doing everything that he can to build on the success of GP fundholding and extend those opportunities to others?
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley  (South-West Surrey) : The proposals represent more evolution and modification than some of the destructive and extremely negative comments that the Labour party made in opposition, but what specific targets is the Secretary of State planning to set? 805
 Ms Blears : My right hon. Friend will be aware that Salford has one of the new GP commissioning pilot projects. Despite its unfortunate acronym, the Salford health action group is working tremendously hard to improve the health of the people. Will my right hon. Friend tell us how important he thinks is the voice of patients and users in such projects?
 Jane Griffiths  (Reading, East) : Does my right hon. Friend agree that the abolition of the Tory internal market will result in the abolition of the senseless competition between NHS organisations such as hospital trusts? Instead of sharing expertise and information and co-operating with each other, they have been tempted to compete against one another, to the detriment of us all.
 Ms Jean Corston  (Bristol, East) : Does my right hon. Friend accept that the White Paper will be warmly welcomed by those doctors and health care workers who have pioneered locality commissioning schemes, such as that in south-east London, on the basis of co-operation and good will in the face of Tory market dogma? The range of services they provide is the envy of many fundholders. Will he confirm that, at long last, doctors and nurses will be put in the driving seat for decisions about the treatment that patients should get?
 Mr. Morgan : Not a lot of people know that.
 Ms Julie Morgan  (Cardiff, North) : This is an historic occasion, as it is extremely rare for politicians to be in on the making of a new political institution, and Labour Members are enthusiastic and excited about it. It is good to have the chance to get on with the job of bringing democracy to Wales, bringing power closer to people in Wales, and trying to bring prosperity to people who have been excluded for far too long. I propose to touch on three matters relating to the Bill: the committee structure; equal opportunities; and the location of the assembly. 857 "conducted with due regard to the principle that there should be equality of opportunity for all". "exercised with due regard to the principle that there should be equality of opportunity for all people." 858
 Ms Morgan : I am sorry—one female Member spoke yesterday. 859
 Mr. Morgan : It did not do the Tories any good, did it?
14.  Ms Keeble : What extra financial support he has made available for professional training in the NHS. [18243]
 Ms Keeble : What professional training would my hon. Friend expect the NHS to provide to enable people who are currently in administrative work—especially work connected with the internal market—to move into patient care: people such as my constituent Christine Dowsett, who moved from secretarial work to patient care and is building a satisfying new career?
 Ms Jowell : My hon. Friend's constituent is but one example of the way in which the Government are discharging their promise to move money and, therefore, in many cases people from jobs that involved red tape, bureaucracy and paper chasing in connection with the internal market, to front-line patient care. Our provisions for training in the national health service recognise the diversity of skills with which staff need to be equipped in order to deliver the modern and dependable care that people have a right to expect.
 Ms Jowell : The NHS will spend around £1.8 billion on health professional education and training this year. On 30 September, my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State announced that these budgets would be increased by a further £50 million next year.
 Ms Jowell : I am sure that the hon. Gentleman will be here in eight minutes' time to hear my right hon. Friend set out the Government's proposals for rebuilding the national health service and ensuring that his constituents have access to the quality of primary and hospital care that they have a right to expect.
 Ms Jowell : My hon. Friend knows that mergers involve ensuring that any staff who are affected receive the
 791
 Ms Jowell : I entirely agree with my hon. Friend, who will be glad to hear that, so far, a record 7.1 million doses of flu vaccine have been distributed. Efforts have been made by the chief medical officer to ensure that all GPs and practice nurses are aware of the importance of making flu vaccine available to people who are vulnerable and at risk of suffering serious illness if they contract flu. The drive to maximise the number of people vaccinated this winter against flu is further evidence of the Government's determination to do what works for patient care, based on the evidence of what works as part of delivering a modern and dependable national health service.
 Ms Jowell : There is absolutely nothing new about the provision, which has been available since the 1930s. The Government are seeking to update it to make it work and to raise income that can be spent on front-line patient care.
 Ms Jowell : I thank my hon. Friend for that question. We shall update legislation to make the scheme more effective on road traffic accidents. On other matters, we shall ensure that the principles of a national health service funded from taxation and free at the point of use prevail.
 Ms Jowell : As I said in my reply, in redrafting the legislation, we are looking at ways of making the provision work in practice. At this stage, we are considering moving to a tariff system to replace the capped expenditure system that currently applies.
 Ms Jowell : Free influenza immunisation is recommended for people with underlying conditions that put them at most risk of serious illness or death should they develop flu and for people who live in nursing homes, residential homes and other long-stay facilities. Influenza immunisation is not routinely recommended for fit and healthy adults and children.
 The Minister for Public Health (Ms Tessa Jowell) : Following the statement made by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer on 2 July 1997,  Official Report
 Ms Jowell : My hon. Friend is right: nothing matters more to patients than knowing that the treatment that they receive will work and that effective treatment is available to them regardless of where they live.
 Ms Jowell : The national health service White Paper, on which my right hon. Friend will make a statement to the House in three minutes' time, will set out a range of
 793
 Rev. Martin Smyth : Does the Minister accept that, under the trusts, we were able better to evaluate costs of procedures, and some trusts were doing better than others? Will he acknowledge that the number of procedures has increased the cost to the NHS? The previous Administration forgot that when they were praising the
 785
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order. The hon. Member for Cardiff, West (Mr. Morgan) spoke for 36 minutes yesterday, and has made two long interventions today; sedentary interventions on top of that are not acceptable.
 Sir Patrick Cormack  (South Staffordshire) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I am sorry to have to ask you for a ruling, but this morning, from the news bulletins, and especially from the "Today" programme, one would have gathered that we would have two statements in the House this afternoon, not one. We were told in some detail what the Government will propose in a White Paper on freedom of information.
 Several hon. Members rose—
 Several hon. Members rose—
 Mr. John M. Taylor : I should like the Minister to know that I visited St. Helena on behalf of Her Majesty's Government rather more recently than 1699. When he considers an airstrip, will he bear in mind the opinion of the islanders—the Saints? The last time I was there they did not want an airstrip.
 Hon. Members : Give way.
 Hon. Members : Hear, hear.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss the following: New schedule 1— 'Exceptions to the backdating of benefits—
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The House must come to order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. It is extremely unfair to the hon. Gentleman that the House is so noisy. Perhaps conversations could take place outside the Chamber.
 Dr. George Turner  (North-West Norfolk) : I wonder whether I am the only Member of Parliament who, when sitting down to watch television on the odd occasion at the weekend, consults the weather forecast before looking at the television guide. The problem of poor television reception experienced in my part of rural Norfolk is shared by many other sparsely populated areas, but it is uniquely annoying in north-west Norfolk because, although over the years there have been technical attempts under the analogue transmission system to improve reception, they seem to have failed abysmally for many thousands of my constituents. "We only have Yorkshire TV despite having two aerials. The chap who came to fix our second one tried in vain to get Anglia for us. The picture is awful and we have not been able to watch it. I am disabled through illness and although I watch very little TV I do especially love news items. I think most of this area gets pretty peeved off about the coverage we get." "I have spent hundreds of pounds on aerials and boosters trying to obtain Anglia TV and BBC East so my family and I can see the local news for our area. But to no avail, we still have to look at Yorkshire TV (wonderful picture, super picture and sound) and hear about what is happening in Leeds and Bradford…that is unless the atmospherics are feeling benevolent and allow us through the snow to get a glimpse of something nearer home, and hear how Norwich City or King's Lynn got on at football, instead of Barnsley and Huddersfield!" "We are just a couple of miles from the coast, with the Ouse and Nene nearby. I am fearful that in not having our own local news, storm and flood warnings might be missed, while we were watching the news from the North!" "It does seem quite abysmal that men can travel to the Moon and back yet, even with a booster fitted to the aerial you are unable to get reception to my sitting room!" Citizen 978 979 980
 Dr. George Turner : I should like to state publicly that today I approached Yorkshire Television and BBC North and asked them, exceptionally, to consider covering this debate, so that my constituents can see that I am speaking up for them. Interestingly, the BBC told me to get lost, but Yorkshire Television did at least say that it would give such coverage fair consideration as part of the news. I hope that my hon. Friend accepts that having the odd item on Yorkshire Television is only a patch and can never be an acceptable solution to the problem. Until we
 982
 Dr. Jenny Tonge  (Richmond Park) : I am well aware that the future of our town centres and the impact upon them of edge-of-town supermarkets and out-of-town supermarkets have been well aired in the House in recent years. Indeed, the Business Improvement Districts Bill is being discussed in another place at the moment. Problems still exist. I shall be as brief as I can be so that the Minister has maximum time to respond. "the countryside comes to town." 985
 Dr. Tonge : Does the Minister agree that a future developer who wished to build houses on a site that had been decontaminated for only supermarket and leisure use
 989
 Dr. Tonge : The Minister must realise that, although local authorities have district plans, they are not written in stone. We are talking about district plans that may last for 10 or 15 years. Local authorities may set down the uses that they wish for particular sites, but I am thinking about 30 or 40 years hence. I do not see why any developer would want to develop a site if he must first spend millions of pounds on decontamination—which, in the two cases that I mentioned, should have been completed by British Gas before it vacated the sites.
 Dr. Tonge : Have the Government considered taking any measures to deal with the double standards that exist in multilateral and bilateral aid to countries that are in debt? I am thinking in particular of the difference between our attitude to Indonesia and Mozambique.
 Dr. Jenny Tonge  (Richmond Park) : I thank the hon. Member for Halifax (Mrs. Mahon) for her speech in defence of the family and single parents. I have no wish to embarrass her, but her speech was a fine one. I also welcome back to the Chamber the hon. Member for Brent, East (Mr. Livingstone). I trust that his injuries were due to natural causes. 1074
 Dr. John Marek  (Wrexham) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I seek your support and sustenance. As you know, many hon. Members wish to say why they intend to vote in favour of amendment No. 1 and against the legislation. If the Government move a motion that the Question be now put, I hope that you will take cognisance of the fact that many hon. Members wish to speak in the debate. I hope that your arm will not be twisted by the Chief Whip or by any other Government Whip.
 Dr. Marek : May I draw the Secretary of State's attention to a House of Commons Library research paper which disproves the argument that such people will be £50 a week better off? The paper says that they will be £10 better off when child care and travel costs are taken into account. A footnote to the paper says:
 "Indeed, they would be better off if they stayed on income support and managed to earn £10–£15 per week from a part-time job which did not necessitate child care costs."
6.  Dr. Marek : What plans she has to visit St. Helena. [18426]
 Dr. Marek : I warmly welcome that remark. The situation on St. Helena is now being addressed. If my hon. Friend can get there, I am sure that St. Helenians would be delighted with a ministerial visit. Will he pay particular attention to St. Helena's need for an airport or airstrip? If a feasibility study is possible, will he ensure that it is undertaken with a view to determining what is possible and practicable, not how expensive an airport or airstrip is and why it should not be built?
 Dr. Reid : I hear what the hon. Gentleman says, but he will know that the fine distinction that he is able to draw between interfering with the process of an investigation and alleging any irregularities in the procedures of the investigation is one that might not be apparent to every objective observer. On these occasions, it is as well to err on the side of caution so that there is not seen to be any ministerial interference in an independent investigation.
 Dr. Reid : I hear what my hon. Friend says, but it is a fine philosophical point to draw a distinction between the behaviour of the police investigating—
 The Minister for the Armed Forces (Dr. John Reid) : First, I apologise to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, and to the hon. Member for Tatton (Mr. Bell) for my late arrival for the debate. It was unavoidable. The hon. Gentleman may wish to know that I travelled here by car with Ambassador Butler of UNSCOM—the United Nations Special Commission—to try to fit in my arrival with the time of the debate. Daily Mail 974
 Dr. Reid : My hon. Friend is entitled to ask anything he likes, but I am more constrained in how I can reply. If he asks whether, in due course, consideration will be given to the MOD police, that subject—particularly during the strategic defence review—could be examined. If he is implying that I should somehow intervene in the investigation, that course is not open to me, and it would be unwise. That is precisely why I am being as constrained as I am in my remarks.
 Dr. Reid : I will address those points if the hon. Gentleman bears with me. He has relayed his views to me personally and to my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Defence. I understand that the hon. Gentleman has written to the chief constable of the MOD police about the case, as was right and proper, and he has met MOD police officers. He will be able to confirm that my right hon. Friend and I told him that, while we could listen, we could make no comment on the merits of the case or the conduct of the MOD police investigation, for reasons that will be obvious. Ministers do not answer for the operational activities of police forces. The chief constable of the MOD police is responsible for the conduct of the investigation by his force and, in his constabulary capacity, he is independent of the Government under law. 975 976
 Dr. Julian Lewis  (New Forest, East) : The Minister will have noticed the non-partisan way in which Conservative Members have responded to his suggestions on greater protection for people who suffer mental incapacitation. Is he willing to consult and make representations to his colleagues in the Department of Health, so that a similar non-partisan approach is taken to my own private Member's Bill, which will be debated on Friday morning? I hope that my Bill receives a Second Reading—although that seems unlikely—as it proposes providing greater protection for people who suffer acute episodes of mental illness.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Dr. Kim Howells) : Dream on.
 Dr. Liam Fox  (Woodspring) : I begin by congratulating the hon. Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine (Sir R. Smith) on obtaining the debate and enabling us to discuss some topical and important problems that confront the countryside. As he began in Scotland, I too shall begin with comments about Scotland.
 Dr. Fox : I shall not go into that argument. Repayment of debt is important when some councils in the United Kingdom have debts higher than those of some third-world countries. 943 [Interruption.] 944
 Dr. Fox : No, I do not have time. The pictures of the Prime Minister being embraced by Euro mobs are an adequate price for a few farms going out of business—as far as the Government's news management is concerned. Country Life
 Dr. Lynne Jones : What my right hon. Friend says about opportunities for lone parents in other European countries is undoubtedly true. Is it not also true that the benefits system and sex education in those countries are better? Should we not learn a lesson from that as well?
 Dr. Lynne Jones : My right hon. Friend talks about the desire of lone parents to work. Does she recall her own words in her book "The Century Gap", in which she wrote:
 "As the century gap narrows, it is to be hoped that taking time out of paid employment to care for small children will come to be considered as valuable an occupation as any other in society"?
 Dr. Lynne Jones : Does my hon. Friend recall that we were elected with the slogans "New Labour, New Britain" and "Things can only get better"? We were not elected on the slogan, "Things can only get better, except for lone parents". I accept that we may not be able to put everything right overnight, but surely we should not penalise the very poorest in society before we make things better for them.
 Dr. Lynne Jones  (Birmingham, Selly Oak) : My hon. Friend raises an interesting prospect. Will he have discussions with the Government? It would be nice to have an assurance that none of the cuts will be implemented pending the review and that the results of the review will be brought back to the House so that we can have a vote on the matter.
 Mr. Norman A. Godman  (Greenock and Inverclyde) : Work is exceedingly difficult to find in my constituency for people of all ages and of both sexes. If my right hon. Friend must make tough decisions, why does she not recommend the taxing of child benefit paid to those earning in excess of £40,000 per annum?
 Mr. Godman : My hon. Friend obviously has legal experience, so can he correct an assumption of mine?
 1101
 Mr. Godman : I should like to cite an example where I believe that a claim of justifiable ignorance would be useful. Recently, two of my constituents who are crew members of a Caledonian MacBrayne ferry complained to me about their experience. They went into the crew's quarters and were told that it contained asbestos-contaminated material. I advised them to inform the Health and Safety Executive in Glasgow. Could that action be used as evidence if, God forbid, they had to make a claim in 10 years or 15 years because they were suffering from asbestosis?
 Mr. Godman : Will my hon. Friend assure me that the provisions will cover those with learning difficulties, particularly in cases in which someone with a learning disability, or perhaps with mental health problems, has lost what might be called a caring adult?
 Mr. Bernard Jenkin  (North Essex) : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for giving way. Was he giving way?
 Mr. Jenkin : It is early in the morning. I am a constituent of the hon. Gentleman, and we share a problem as constituency neighbours. Our rural communities are threatened by the supposed need for 4.4 million houses to be built in the south-east of England over the next 20 years. Does the hon. Gentleman agree that that is a lose-lose scenario? It will destroy our rural communities. There will be no sense of community if vast new housing estates are to be plastered all over our rural areas.
 Miss Ann Widdecombe  (Maidstone and The Weald) : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his considered exposition of this matter and for his consultation document. The gratitude that I felt when he announced unequivocal opposition to euthanasia was somewhat attenuated when he announced an exploration of living wills and the extension of enduring power of attorney to cover health decisions. Those two measures added together make me uneasy.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Let me get people out of the Chamber—it is very noisy. I am sure that hon. Members will move quickly and quietly so that we can hear the statement.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The House must come to order.
 Madam Speaker : Order.
 Madam Speaker : Order. The House must come to order. I have never known such intolerance and noise during Prime Minister's questions.
 Madam Speaker : Order. Conversations are much too noisy. [HON. MEMBERS: "Hear, hear."] I am delighted that the House agrees. It will now come to order.
 Madam Speaker : I was not sure whether the hon. Gentleman had finished or was giving way.
 Ms Abbott : Does the Prime Minister accept that even if the new deal for lone parents is 100 per cent. successful, there will always be women, especially mothers with children under five, who are not able to work? How does he justify cutting those women's benefits?
 Ms Abbott : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend, who has been extremely generous in giving way. She argues that the cuts in child benefit will not be a disincentive to lone mothers to work. I draw to her attention the Joseph Rowntree Foundation study, "Making Work Pay", which states:
 "If lone mothers are pushed into hardship, for example through changes in benefit entitlements … their chances of getting into paid work may be drastically reduced."
 Ms Abbott : Will my right hon. Friend give way?
 Ms Abbott : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend for giving way, because I know that she wants to make progress. She has talked about the support that she wants to give lone mothers, especially those who go back to work. All hon. Members welcome that support, but what support will she give lone mothers who have to stay at home either because they feel that their children are too young to leave in the care of others, or because they cannot find a job?
 Ms Diane Abbott  (Hackney, North and Stoke Newington) : The hon. Gentleman spoke of lone parents' being treated more favourably than two-parent households. Does he or does he not accept that lone parents incur more costs than two-parent households? The premium that he mentioned is not to give them an advantage, but simply to raise them to the same economic level as two-parent households.
 Mr. Alan Duncan  (Rutland and Melton) : It is a very good question.
 Mr. Hurst : I had hoped to avoid going into the origins of the BSE crisis and apportioning blame. The issues should be raised above the political knockabout so that we can examine the root cause of the problems in agriculture. I am sure that others will deal with the party political points in due course. 931
 Mr. Hurst : As my constituency neighbour and one of my constituents, the hon. Gentleman will know that I have frequently spoken in the constituency against the building plans for that part of northern and central Essex. However, now is not the time to pursue that issue. We had a debate on it recently, when hon. Members aired their views widely. 932
 Mr. Hurst : I always seek to do so if I possibly can.
 Mr. Hurst : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman, who has clearly read a synopsis of my later remarks. I agree entirely that the Government are pursuing a strong policy to support farmers. The figure of £1 billion of support because of the bovine spongiform encephalopathy crisis flips off my tongue, in addition to the £500,000 to support the beef industry.
 Mr. Alan Hurst  (Braintree) : I am grateful for being called, Madam Speaker. I am also grateful to the hon. Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine (Sir R. Smith) for initiating this debate on a Wednesday morning, when there is an opportunity for a number of hon. Members to make a contribution. 930 "The Union should make a parallel effort to enhance the economic potential and the environmental value of rural areas and their capacity to provide sustainable jobs."
 Mr. Alan Simpson  (Nottingham, South) : I do not think that there is a Labour Member in the Chamber who would not and does not welcome the national child care strategy, but will my right hon. Friend explain why we cannot deliver the national child care strategy before pulling away the safety net of benefit support? If we were to do that, our proposals would be coherent in a way in which they currently are not.
 Mr. Alan Simpson : The Bill, which continues to include cuts in lone parent benefit entitlement, is shabby, vindictive, unprincipled and unsupportable. I know that that is right because those are the words that we used when the issue was first raised by the motley crew of the Conservative Government when they mooted the cuts in lone parent benefit entitlement. 1140 Financial Times the corporation tax changes from 1999 that Gordon Brown, the chancellor, announced in his pre-Budget report have a net present value to companies which totals more than £9 billion". 1141 "I am keen to re-employ a former employee … Her child has just started school and she has approached me to offer employment of 20 hours per week … This I am happy to do at £4.32 per hour." "what is most alarming to me, potentially even more worse off if she was off work to look after her child". [Interruption.] 1142 Hansard
 Sir Alastair Goodlad : What is Her Majesty's Government's attitude to Zimbabwe's international debts in the light of proposals to nationalise several million hectares of farming land without compensation, with access to the courts apparently to be denied to those who are deprived of their property? Economists and agriculture experts have warned that it will result in the collapse of Zimbabwe's agriculture industry, which is the country's biggest single foreign currency earner and generates two thirds of its domestic economy.
 Mr. Salmond : I had not intended to say anything on Third Reading—today's events speak for themselves—until the hon. Member for Hull, North (Mr. McNamara) said that he would have to advise a constituent carefully on whether to move into employment under the circumstances set out by the Government. I watched the Secretary of State for Social Security say, "Shame." If there is any shame in today's proceedings, it lies not on the Back Benches, but on the Front Benches. 1139
 Mr. Salmond : The hon. Lady has just proposed a change in Government policy. That may be welcome throughout the House, but if it is possible for her to contemplate a policy—taxing child benefit—that is not mentioned in the manifesto, why is it not possible to have a change in policy in order not to penalise the poorest people in the country?
 Mr. Alex Salmond  (Banff and Buchan) : The hon. Gentleman may have heard of the resignation this afternoon of the Under-Secretary of State for Scotland, the hon. Member for Edinburgh, North and Leith (Mr. Chisholm), over this issue. Does he share my suspicion that there are many others in the ministerial team who share the views of the hon. Member for Edinburgh, North and Leith, but who have not yet found the courage to speak out?
 Mr. Dismore : That could be evidence in a civil law claim, but that does not address the problem that faces us, which relates to the industrial injuries scheme. That evidence may prove good causal connection at a later date, but the difficulty with respiratory conditions in particular is that it is often many years before the illness starts to develop. It may be many years after that before the sufferer, thinking back 20 years, makes a causal connection and seeks a diagnosis from the GP. After that, it may be some time before the patient is referred to a consultant for an opinion. Some conditions are not even detected until a post mortem is conducted. Those problems with the old system are not addressed by the amendments. That is why we need to look for a more imaginative solution.
 Mr. Dismore : It is my understanding that the previous Government abolished that, with effect from April 1997. That is the issue I am currently addressing and I hope to give some ideas to the Under-Secretary of State for Social Security, my hon. Friend the Member for Manchester, Withington (Mr. Bradley), who is to respond to the debate. "the delay in establishing the correct diagnosis may take months or even years, given that General Practitioners will often need to refer cases to specialists. Moreover, the attribution of a commonly recurring condition to an occupational cause is often controversial, leading to a longer delay." "counter to the objective of improving administrative efficiency by aligning the backdating rules as far as possible and removing the need for adjudication officers to consider good cause, which is a costly provision to operate." 1102
 Mr. Andrew Dismore  (Hendon) : I shall not support the amendments and shall support the Government, but I want to discuss issues relating to industrial injuries disablement benefit, because neither the amendments nor the new clause address that issue. As the hon. Member for Northavon (Mr. Webb) said, the previous Government abolished the whole concept of a good-cause exception, and nothing in the amendments or the new clause addresses that fundamental problem.
 Mr. Andrew Dismore  (Hendon) : I welcome my hon. Friend's comments. The Court of Protection has been doing a very good job with personal injury and accident victims, and I am pleased that we are considering extending its role. Equally, however, it does not come cheap, and there have been arguments in personal injury claims about who is responsible for Court of Protection costs. If there is to be a review, and if it is to go wider and potentially increase legal costs, will he assure the House that the costs of pursuing civil justice will be taken into account in the review, and, specifically, that costs will not be passed on to accident victims?
 Mr. Andrew George (St. Ives) : I wish to present a petition from the people of Cornwall—in response to an overwhelming demand, on both academic and economic grounds—for a university college in Cornwall. Cornwall once had its own university college, and it now demands that that need be met, not through distance learning but through a properly resourced university campus. The petition of the people of Cornwall declares that a new University College is needed for Cornwall. The petitioners therefore request that the House of Commons urges the Secretary of State for Education and Employment to address the need for a University College based in Cornwall.
9.  Mr. Rowe : What plans she has for the Chevening scholarship programme. [18429]
 Mr. Rowe : I suggest to the Minister that this valuable programme could achieve the purposes of the White Paper if the allocation of scholarships was skewed much more towards primary health care programmes, the development of programmes for disability, primary education and similar things rather than, as at present, its valuable contribution being skewed towards business and technology. Will the Minister consider that suggestion rather than there being any risk of scrapping the programme?
 Mr. Kirkwood : We have had a very interesting and dramatic debate, which is what the House is for. I should also like very squarely to tell the Government that if Labour Members have raised dissentient voices, they should be allowed to do so without any type of sanction. To do otherwise would be to deny freedom of speech in the House, to deny hon. Members the right to represent their constituents and to negate the process of parliamentary democracy. Any sanctions taken against any Labour Member in the coming hours or days would be a disgrace, and negate the whole ethos of the House. 1137
 Mr. Kirkwood : I give in—I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment.
 Mr. Archy Kirkwood  (Roxburgh and Berwickshire) : I beg to move amendment No. 3, in page 54, line 15, at end insert—
 Mr. Kirkwood : I detect that the House wants to move on quickly—[HON. MEMBERS: "Yes."] However, if I am provoked, I might speak for a long time. I want to insinuate a thought into the Minister's mind. The amendments deal with some important procedural aspects of the Bill. Some of the clauses, especially clauses 26 and 27, contain some dramatic and far-reaching changes, about which I am concerned. Through amendments Nos. 3 and 4, I want to ask the Government to consider mitigating some of the consequences of clauses 26 and 27. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Kirkwood : I want the Government to think about the possibility of looking at special provisions for identification and hearing of test cases as priority matters for social security appeal tribunals and commissioners. It can only help claimants and appellants in test cases to have their cases determined within a reasonable time against the background of the powers in clauses 26 and 27.
 Mr. Austin Mitchell  (Great Grimsby) : The debate is fascinating, but the case for encouraging cycling is so obvious that we should not have to put it in such a little debate; it should be central to Government policy. It was powerfully put by my hon. Friend the Member for Norwich, South (Mr. Clarke), whom I congratulate on initiating the debate.
 Mr. Mitchell : That is not a cranky image; it is a fashionable image. 959
 Mr. Mitchell : I agree entirely. There should also be designated places at traffic lights, so that cars do not suddenly sweep across cyclists to turn left when the cyclists are going straight ahead. [Laughter.] 960
 Mr. Mitchell : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that the danger is a product of the culture of the Tory Government for 18 years? They were a captive of the road lobby and indulged in the philosophy of building more roads, causing people to buy more cars, then building more roads, again causing people to buy more cars. In that situation, cycling is bound to become more dangerous. The need is for a national policy of integrating cycling into transport so that we give it a push.
10.  Mr. Sheerman : What steps she is taking to work with the Government of Brazil to ensure that its continued economic development does not result in further destruction of its rain forests. [18430]
 Mr. Sheerman : Will my right hon. Friend mount a serious investigation into the allegations of corruption in IBAMA—the environmental agency that is supposed to protect the rain forests? There are allegations that no fines are ever paid, that the loggers get off scot free and that from top to bottom, IBAMA, which we help to fund through the G7, is corrupt. There are further allegations that more logging than ever before is going on in the rain forests of Brazil. Will my right hon. Friend mount an investigation?
 Mr. Barry Sheerman  (Huddersfield) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Some of us who are rather keen on International Development questions were disturbed today that there was so much noise in the last 10 minutes coming from hon. Members on the Liberal Democrat Benches. They seemed to think that they were at a Liberal Democrat tea or coffee morning. It was impossible to hear Ministers' answers or supplementary questions for 10 minutes before Prime Minister's questions. Could some attention be paid by the Chair to keeping Liberal Democrat Members quiet and sending them to their coffee mornings, if that is where they prefer to be?
 Mr. Grant : I believe that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State is to visit South Africa. I wonder whether my hon. Friend the Minister will urge her to visit the computer information technology centre in Welkom in the Free State. She will see there an excellent project run by black British expatriates who are teaching people in places such as Bronville and Tahbong how to use information technology. Will he also examine how those people are working with the local population and use their example as a model for future development to meet the White Paper's objectives?
 Mr. William Cash  (Stone) : Does the hon. Gentleman, who is making an interesting and fascinating speech, accept that the root problem with this matter is that the proposals are Treasury driven? Why are they Treasury driven? Is it not because Government Members know perfectly well that the Maastricht criteria— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Cash : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Bob Russell  (Colchester) : Perhaps we can return to the subject of the debate, which is cycling. Is the hon. Gentleman saying that the previous Government spent too much, too little or just the right amount on cycling provision?
 Mr. Bob Russell : Is the Minister promising additional Government finance? Does she accept that there are schemes and examples of initiative and enthusiasm across the country, but they lack resources?
 Mr. Clarke : I agree with my hon. Friend—and especially with his point that it is a matter not just for the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions, but for a wide range of Government
 952
 Mr. Charles Clarke  (Norwich, South) : I welcome this debate, which is the first one on cycling for many years. It is particularly timely given the Kyoto conference on the environment and the Government's review of integrated transport policy. I congratulate my right hon. and hon. Friends on that because they are following a course that will be extremely effective, and I want cycling to play its part in the debate. 949 2 950
 Mr. Clarke : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for that intervention and I agree that the role of employers is critical. They spend large amounts of money subsidising company cars and other items which are not in their best interests and, in many cases, it would be much cheaper and better for them to encourage their employees to cycle to and from work where that is feasible. 951
 Mr. Clarke : I entirely agree. As the hon. Gentleman knows, the all-party group had a useful meeting yesterday with the councillors who chair the environment and transport committee of Westminster city council, and also with the people who run the royal parks. We spoke about the specific matters that the hon. Gentleman raised, and also about general issues. The councillors said that they were committed to providing proper bike parking around the Palace of Westminster for visitors. We are pursuing the matter with the Serjeant at Arms.
 Mr. Charles Kennedy : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Charles Kennedy  (Ross, Skye and Inverness, West) : I am grateful for the opportunity to contribute briefly to this important debate. I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine (Sir R. Smith) on his good fortune in being able to initiate a debate on the rural economy at such a pressing time. 935 936
 Mr. Kennedy : We know only too well.
 Mr. Kennedy : In a moment. My hon. and learned Friend the Member for North-East Fife (Mr. Campbell), who has experience of the Scott report—and the scars to prove it—will be the first to underscore the need to confirm not only that an inquiry will take place, but that it will not take the same form as the Scott report. It must be open, independent and accessible, as that process was not.
 Mr. Kennedy : I certainly agree. There will be no disagreement among the Liberal Democrats with the statement that a public inquiry should not be used as a smokescreen. That is not the point of a public inquiry, which is a flushing-out rather than a covering-up exercise. I note the hon. Gentleman's recommendation and the endorsement that he has given on behalf of his party. I expect that we shall rediscover his comments in due course, as and when such an inquiry takes place—or, more important, when it reports.
 Mr. Kennedy : My hon. Friend is right about HLCAs. The same is true of the cuts in the over-30-months scheme that the present Government have endorsed. If ever there was an example that makes the case that the Liberal Democrats have argued before, during and since the election—that we should not adhere to the somewhat arbitrary spending limits of the previous Chancellor of the Exchequer—it is the decisions that the present Administration have taken on agricultural expenditure.
 Mr. Kennedy : My hon. Friend— [Interruption.] [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
 Mr. Chris Ruane  (Vale of Clwyd) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Norwich, South (Mr. Clarke) on securing this important debate. I should like to relay my experiences from my constituency. In the past seven years, two road projects for bypasses were planned for my area—one for Rhyl and one for Prestatyn. The Rhyl project was to cost £17 million and the Prestatyn one £10 million. The terminology is interesting. Initially, they were called bypasses but when the business community found that it was to be bypassed the projects were called relief roads. 963
 Mr. Christopher Chope  (Christchurch) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Norwich, South (Mr. Clarke) on securing this debate. He was absolutely right to begin his speech by recognising my right hon. Friend the Member for North-West Hampshire (Sir G. Young) as a key factor in the development of cycling policy in the United Kingdom. The hon. Gentleman did not mention my hon. Friend the Member for Blaby (Mr. Robathan)—who did sterling work with the all-party cycling group—but I am sure that that was a mere oversight.
 Mr. Chope : I thought that the hon. Lady was going to say that cycling should not be undertaken with a Minister on the back of a tandem. She has anticipated the burden of my remarks, which will emphasise the safety problems. 964
 Mr. Chope : Cycling provision is largely a responsibility for local authorities, and most cycling is done on local roads. Perhaps not the hon. Gentleman, but hon. Members who understand how responsibilities are shared out will realise that responsibility for local roads is for local authorities. It is up to them to decide on what priority they will accord to investment in cycling.
 Mr. Chope : I do not agree with the hon. Gentleman. We must consider ordinary, everyday cycling. Why are only 1 per cent. of journeys to school made by bicycle? I can remember cycling to school down the old Bath road. The reason why it is dangerous to cycle on the roads is that the provision for cyclists is often inadequate. Increased investment is needed to deal with the problem. 965
 Mr. Chope : I do not defend bad driving by car or lorry drivers which contributes to accidents. One problem cyclists face is encountering potholes. They have either to swerve out into the road or to go through the pothole risking a buckled wheel. Potholes are a real problem and I am concerned that the Minister does not understand the nitty-gritty issue of what it is like to cycle along roads with potholes. I fear that until she does we shall not get the investment in the local highway network that the country deserves. Let us remove the largest barrier to entry into cycling—the barrier caused by the danger to cyclists.
 Mr. Chope : On which of the occasions that the Minister has just described does she use her bicycle?
 Mr. Christopher Chope  (Christchurch) : I am grateful for the opportunity to raise the issue of the local government grant settlement as it affects Dorset and, in particular, council tax payers living in the borough of Christchurch and the East Dorset district in my constituency. I am delighted that my hon. Friends the Members for North Dorset (Mr. Walter), for Mid—Dorset and North Poole (Mr. Fraser), for Poole (Mr. Syms) and for West Dorset (Mr. Letwin) are here to support me because these issues affect their constituents as well as mine. 1156 "new measures of neediness … are a clear improvement".— [ Official Report 1157 Cambridge Evening News "We will review the Area Cost Adjustment in time for the next financial year." "changes in line with the recent Elliot review would bring the county an extra £10 million." 1158 1159
 Mr. Chope : I raised some specific, narrow issues relating to my constituents and some particular matters concerning the settlement in Dorset. The Minister is responding with banalities and generalities. Will he confine his remarks in the remaining time to the specific issues affecting Dorset? If council tax goes up by more than 7 per cent. in Dorset, will it be the councils in Dorset that are failing in their duty, or will it be the Government's responsibility?
2.  Mr. Fraser : What is her Department's policy on reducing the debt burden of developing countries. [18422]
 Mr. Fraser : I am sure that the Secretary of State is more aware than most that Uganda has benefited from debt reduction assistance. Will she assure the House that Her Majesty's Government will call for a yes vote in Uganda's forthcoming referendum on whether to set up a democratic state, and that, if we do not see a yes vote, she will report back and tell us why?
 Mr. Soley : I cannot give that assurance—not least because I am not in a position to do so. However, I am not sure that what my hon. Friend suggests would be the best route, although it is an option that could be considered.
 Mr. Soley : My hon. Friend is not listening to what I am saying. A note has already been circulated to every member of the parliamentary Labour party that the issue will be kept under review. My judgment is that we can move forward because some of the initial concerns have been partly met by bringing forward the welfare-to-work packages. Other concerns still need to be addressed. As I have said, in my judgment there will be some potential losers. I call them potential losers because I am told that the measure may work better than people think. That may be true. 1055
 Mr. Clive Soley  (Ealing, Acton and Shepherd's Bush) : This issue has caused considerable and understandable concern, and I know that it has not been an easy matter either for members of the Government or for Labour Back Benchers. I believe that lessons have been learnt from the way in which the problem emerged and from the way in which it has been handled. If I did not believe that, I would not be speaking as I am today. 1052
 Mr. Soley : I believe that the Government have already taken note of that point and I do not think that they need messages in the Lobby tonight. I understand, however, why people feel as they do and I will address that point in due course.
 Mr. Soley : I listened carefully to the speech of the hon. Gentleman's colleague, the hon. Member for Northavon (Mr. Webb). It became a wish list for more spending on everything; yet the Liberal Democrats complained about
 1053
 Mr. Soley : That is precisely the problem that the hon. Gentleman does not understand. The movement away from the disaster of the past 18 years into a new and better system requires a range of expenditure to be looked at. A figure of £5 million can be multiplied 10 times, 20 times or 30 times. It would have been more honest if the hon. Gentleman had said that in his speech and then said, "Yes, we want to raise taxes to a greater extent than the Liberal Democrats proposed at the previous election." That at least would have had the virtue of consistency and openness.
 Mr. Soley : I have been using my good offices for some time. The idea that the only way to get out of a difficult
 1054
 Mr. Soley : My hon. Friend needs to listen carefully to what I am saying. I am not speaking for the Government. The entire parliamentary Labour party has seen the note that has been sent round saying that the matter will be kept under review. I am not saying anything new on that.
Q4. [18454]  Mr. Blunt : When the Prime Minister considers the past seven months, will he think about vitamin B6 users, home owners who have a mortgage, home owners who are presumptuous enough to want a doorstep, car owners, sports pistol enthusiasts and country sports enthusiasts? All those people, as well as those of us who are partial to a rib of beef, want to know why the Prime Minister was not honest with them before the election and why he did not tell them that he aspired to be not so much the Queen's first Minister as the nation's first nanny.
 Mr. Dafis : Does the Minister agree that, although intermediate technology is appropriate in many circumstances, high technology is sometimes also appropriate for third-world development? I am thinking particularly of sustainable energy policies. Is not the development of renewable energy often the means by which underdeveloped countries can make the leap from underdevelopment to sustainable development? What do the Government intend to do about encouraging the transfer of such technology to the underdeveloped world?
 Mr. Wigley : I congratulate the hon. Member for Northavon (Mr. Webb) on a very thoughtful speech. I support new clause 1 and amendment No. 1. After our change of Government on 1 May, it is appalling that we are still saddled with such a measure. It was proposed by a Conservative Government, and many people thought that after the general election we would turn our backs on such policies. 1051
 Mr. Dafydd Wigley  (Caernarfon) : I should like to return to the substantive point that the hon. Gentleman was making before that trivial intervention from the hon. Member for Teignbridge (Mr. Nicholls). Does he accept that, should the legislation be passed, an acute problem will arise in rural areas, often tourist areas, where work is available in the summer but not in the winter? If lone parents do not take the work available in the summer, they will be penalised, but if they then lose that work, they will receive a lower level of benefit. Is that not totally unacceptable?
 Mr. Campbell-Savours : On the question of former Overseas Development Administration support for such projects and for projects more generally, would it not be interesting to take a snapshot year, perhaps in the mid-1980s, and revisit all the projects that were supported in that year with British taxpayers' money to see to what extent they are still being properly managed and utilised to the benefit of the recipient countries? I asked that question following my visit in 1991 to the Orissa health project in southern India, which I found to be a disaster area.
8.  Mr. Chaytor : What steps she will take to ensure that the multilateral agreement on investment includes mandatory safeguards against unsustainable economic development in the poorest countries. [18428]
 Mr. Chaytor : Does my right hon. Friend agree that in the context of the attempts by some multinational companies to sabotage the current climate negotiations in Kyoto, it is crucial that the present OECD non-binding code of good practice is made binding within the multilateral agreement on investment?
 Mr. David Drew  (Stroud) : I am glad that we are having another debate on rural Britain. I think that this is the third time we have been down this course—it shows the importance of the matter. The hon. Member for West Suffolk (Mr. Spring) proposed a similar debate and I was able to initiate a debate on the housing problems that affect the countryside. 938
 Mr. Drew : I agree with the hon. Gentleman. That is why we will see through the culling process, although it is causing great angst. There is no alternative if we are to get our beef back into world markets. We must go along with those desperate measures and it would seem, on the basis of all the evidence, that they are now working. Some say the crisis will come to a natural end next year, or possibly at the start of the year after, when the stock that could have been affected by BSE has been removed.
 Mr. David Drew  (Stroud) : I am rather perturbed to hear that. When we debated the issue last week, I thought that there was unanimity on a difficult decision. As it is widely understood that we do not know what caused BSE, surely the precautionary principle should be foremost. Does the hon. Lady agree?
 Mr. Drew : If the hon. and learned Gentleman lets me finish, I shall propose some measures. 939
 Mr. Drew : I hope that the Government will consider ways—although not necessarily the same ways as the previous Government—in which to ensure that the rural debate is at the top of the agenda. The Government must genuinely show that action is being taken. 940
 Mr. Faber : I am sure that the right hon. Lady agrees that trade and investment are essential for developing countries. While the multilateral agreement on investment is a welcome step, when will the Government accept as their goal the complementary policy of global free trade by 2020? The right hon. Lady has not been afraid to adopt other targets. Why will she not adopt that one?
 Mr. David Heath : Does the Minister appreciate that, last week, the St. Helena delegation said that they could not remember ever having received a visit from a Minister? He would therefore be warmly received if he were to go, particularly if he were to find an aid package and take a promise from the Government that full UK citizenship for St. Helenians—which was removed in 1981—will be restored.
 Mr. David Hinchliffe  (Wakefield) : I welcome the Minister's statement, because the present law leaves many people wide open to exploitation and abuse. I hope that the steps that he has outlined will address that. 1021
 Mr. Lock : The hon. Gentleman refers to zero tolerance. Surely it is more important that we should have zero tolerance of motorists who drive too fast and too close to cyclists, who are then forced off the road—whether well maintained or otherwise—on to the pavement. That produces the problem that the hon. Gentleman is describing.
 Mr. David Lock  (Wyre Forest) : Does my hon. Friend agree that the integrated transport strategy is crucial, and that more than one Department has a role to play? May I invite him to develop his argument on the role of employers and to reflect on the role of the planning authorities, which receive applications for new places of employment? Does not planning policy provide a great opportunity to require and encourage employers to make proper facilities available, so that they are built into every new place of work?
 Mr. David Lock  (Wyre Forest) : It is an enormous pleasure to speak in this important debate because cycling gives much pleasure to those who are able to engage in it. It is also a great tourist opportunity which is currently undervalued. My wife and I spent more than a year cycling abroad, an activity that enables one to see a country from the bottom up in a quiet leisurely way without making any impact on it. It is a superb way to explore a country, but although this country is ideal for such touring because the key sites are close together and many of them can be visited in a day, our roads system is inherently hostile to cyclists. We are missing a great economic opportunity. 961
 Mr. David Rendel  (Newbury) : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that in the speeches that my hon. Friend the Member for Northavon (Mr. Webb) and I made in Committee and on Second Reading, we consistently supported welfare to work as being an excellent attempt to give opportunities to young women and others who are lone parents so that they can get back into work? That is entirely consistent with our manifesto, which was fully costed. We would have provided the money for a very similar programme. What we are debating tonight, however, is not welfare to work—on which we all agree—but benefit cuts for those who do not go back to work. On the Government's own figures, that will mean half of all lone parents.
 Mr. Rendel : I am delighted to have the chance to wind up the debate. I do not intend to take much of the House's time over it.
 Mr. Rendel : With new clause 2, we are trying to overcome what will inevitably be a restriction in benefits to those who have the right to them, but who may not claim them in time. If anyone doubts that that will happen, he or she need only look at what the Government are saying about the drop in the amount that they are expecting to pay out in benefits as a result of clause 72. 1113
 Mr. Rendel : I am grateful for this opportunity to take part in the debate, which is one of the best that we have had for a long time. Perhaps that is not surprising because there is some cross-party agreement and such debates usually draw the best from hon. Members. Two arguments need some further review. My hon. Friend the Member for Northavon (Mr. Webb) comprehensively demolished most of the Government's arguments. Since then the issue of the review, about which a couple of Labour Members spoke, has been introduced. Given the importance that
 1083 1084
 Mr. David Winnick  (Walsall, North) : I am grateful to my hon. Friend, for whom I have the greatest respect. Is he aware that one reason why I cannot support the Government today is that I believe, as do a number of colleagues, that the cut is a wrong, Tory policy? I also fear that other cuts in areas such as disability allowance may be introduced. Tonight should be a warning to the Government, and particularly to the Treasury, that disability benefit should not be taxed or means-tested. Those who are disabled have enough difficulties, even those who receive the upper limit of disability allowance. I believe that, in those circumstances, the Government should take note of our concerns.
 Mr. David Winnick  (Walsall, North) : A very brave woman.
 Mr. MacShane : Will my right hon. Friend comment on President Clinton's failure to secure an agreement for a fast track on free trade in the United States? That reflects grave concerns in north America about the failure to add a social dimension to the complex question of trade. Whether on the MAI, which is the subject of the question, or on forthcoming meetings of the World Trade Organisation, can my right hon. Friend assure the House that the Government will side with President Clinton and most other democratic countries in seeking a social element and will not bow to the wishes of multinational companies and authoritarian Governments in the third world?
 Mr. Dennis Canavan  (Falkirk, West) : No, he will not.
 Mr. Dennis Canavan  (Falkirk, West) : I put my name to new clause 1 and to amendment No. 1 because I believe that the proposals that they outline will help to protect the living standards of single-parent families. 1078 The Guardian "if the Labour Government has not raised the living standards of the poorest by the end of its time in office it will have failed."
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : I have noticed that, from time to time, all Governments in the past 20 years have, when they have found it necessary, spent considerable sums telling people that they should claim various benefits. Newspaper advertisements tell people how to claim. That gives the impression that the Government are saying, "We've got some money, and you ought to be getting hold of it," which runs counter to this restriction on backdating. The implication is that there are loads of people out there who are ignorant of the benefits that they can claim, but my hon. Friend is proposing to prevent the people whom we are anxious to ensure receive benefits from backdating their claims. One runs counter to the other. Will he explain how he has come to that conclusion?
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : The Liberal Democrats have spent all the money already.
 Mr. Desmond Swayne  (New Forest, West) : I seek leave to present a petition from Mrs. Hélène Atkinson, whose husband, Mr. George Atkinson, has been imprisoned without charge in Dubai for nine months. The 2,909 petitioners are not satisfied that enough is being done to secure Mr. Atkinson's release. Wherefore, the petitioners pray that this honourable House urges the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs to work for the release of Mr. George Atkinson.
 Mr. Donald Gorrie  (Edinburgh, West) rose—
 Mr. Douglas Hogg  (Sleaford and North Hykeham) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I should be grateful if you took the motions separately.
 Mr. Douglas Hogg  (Sleaford and North Hykeham) : Further to that point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Hogg : Further to that point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Hogg : Mr. Deputy Speaker, there is a further point of order. If what my hon. Friend the Member for Guildford (Mr. St. Aubyn) said is correct, there has been an assault by Labour Members on another hon. Member. That is a matter not only for Madam Speaker but for the Serjeant at Arms, because a criminal offence has been committed in the House. I therefore ask you urgently to refer the matter to the Serjeant at Arms.
 Mr. Edward Garnier  (Harborough) : What specific measures will the hon. Gentleman press on the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to provide the answers that he is so hopeful of?
 Mr. Edward Garnier  (Harborough) : I thank the Minister for his statement on what is, on any view, a very difficult subject. I shall not take too long in responding to the Minister's statement as I know that a great many of his hon. Friends want to spend much of today discussing the Government's conduct in relation to social security. 1017
 Mr. Frank Cook : Does my hon. Friend not realise that we are cutting the benefit? Those who protest against this are not asking for extra money. We seek simply to leave it as it is until the broad-ranging review is concluded. We are not asking for extra money, so we are staying within spending levels.
 Mr. Frank Cook : This is a difficult debate, with nightmarish aspects. I shall try to introduce a degree of reality based on my experience as a constituency Member. 1081 1082
 Mr. Frank Cook   rose—
 Mr. Frank Cook : What my hon. Friend has said is reassuring to an extent. I believe that a broad review of the whole benefit system is already taking place. It would be common sense to wait for the conclusions of the broad review before introducing any measures. Then we would know more about the package that we were buying.
 Mr. Frank Cook  (Stockton, North) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Cook : Will the hon. Gentleman please give way?
 Mr. Cook : I am most grateful to the hon. Gentleman for allowing me to intervene briefly. I would not question the hon. Gentleman's sincerity in the Chamber, but if he truly despises these measures, as he has said, why does he intend to vote for them?
 Mr. Gary Streeter  (South-West Devon) : I am following the hon. Gentleman's argument carefully. Does he agree that farmers in his constituency and in mine are in a serious crisis? Does he agree that they require the Government, who were, we were told, elected to look out for the many and not just for the few, to help them? There are many farmers in serious crisis. Does he agree that the Government should seek to unlock the compensation funds in Brussels as a priority? Farmers are not just business men. They are the guardians of the countryside, and they require our help.
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful for the hon. and learned Member's support. I agree that, after the Law Commission published its report in 1995, having considered the matter carefully over a long period, it was right that the Government should take the matter forward as urgently as possible. I agree that it is crucial to have wide-ranging consultation. When he examines the Green Paper closely, he will discover that we are consulting on about 107 separate questions. This is a Green Paper of the deepest green, and we are determined to secure widespread support for the proposals.
 Mr. Hoon : Thank you, Madam Speaker. Official Report, 787, 1012 1013 1014 1015 1016
 The Parliamentary Secretary, Lord Chancellor's Department (Mr. Geoffrey Hoon) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I should like to repeat a statement on mental incapacity, which has been made in another place— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for her comments. I repeat that the Government are firmly opposed to euthanasia, which is a deliberate action to end life. Anyone with the ability to make a decision is legally entitled to consent to or to refuse medical treatment. An advance statement is a way for a person simply to plan ahead for a time when he may no longer be able
 1018
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful for the hon. Gentleman's support. I mentioned the importance of seeking to resolve potential conflicts of interest, and the need for greater safeguards, particularly in regard to the securing of independent advice and support for carers who must sometimes make very difficult decisions.
 Mr. Hoon : As ever, I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his thoughtful contribution. I must tell him, however, that his proposal is well beyond the scope of the Green Paper, and is not the responsibility of my Department.
 Mr. Hoon : No. It has nothing to do with euthanasia. Under the present law, medical treatment may be withdrawn if it is judged to be in the patient's best interest not to continue it.
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his considered observations. Guardianship regulations are not the direct responsibility of my Department, but my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State for Health, who is responsible for such matters, will have heard his comments, and I am sure that he will give them appropriate and careful consideration.
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful for the right hon. Member's support for the considered view that I set out. The nature of the problems makes it necessary to examine whether there is an argument for legislation on advance statements or for reforming existing powers of attorney. Examining the problem in a considered way allows us to discuss possible legislative solutions. I take on board her point about comparing specific indications with the more general instructions that may be contained in an advance statement. It is important for treatment to reflect the needs and concerns of the individual. 1022
 Mr. Hoon : I am aware of the concern about costs. Anxiety about extending the court's jurisdiction to cover issues of personal welfare, health, property and finance is addressed in the Green Paper. It is important that sufficient resources are available to ensure that decisions can be made in those more sensitive areas, and we are consulting on the matter. I am grateful for my hon. Friend's observations. I think that it is important, however, that we try to establish a single court jurisdiction, not only to cover questions of property and finance but to deal with the wider range of issues affecting particularly the elderly.
 Mr. Hoon : Above all else, this is not a party political issue, and I am grateful for the hon. Gentleman's observations on that matter. As the Under-Secretary of State for Health is in the Chamber, I am sure that the hon. Gentleman's words will be taken into account.
 Mr. Hoon : If the hon. Lady will allow me to explain, I will draw an important distinction. 1019
 Mr. Hoon : My hon. Friend is a distinguished former Whip, and has written about these matters. He understands how they work rather better than I do. I cannot give him any idea of a likely date for legislation, not least because we have embarked on an extensive programme of consultation, and we need to see the results before we can decide whether legislation is necessary.
 Mr. Hoon : I am extremely grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his support and I pay tribute to his work in this area. I have taken great pains to distinguish the problems of mental incapacity from the issue of euthanasia and I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for his forceful observation. I hope that the result of the
 1020
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his suggestions, but, having said it is important to await the results of the consultation before deciding whether a single Bill is necessary, I am in no better position to suggest that a number of Bills might be necessary. My hon. Friend's final observation shows the importance of ensuring that whatever the Government's proposals, they have the widespread support of the House and the wider population. This is a hugely delicate and sensitive area and we shall move forward only when we feel that there is widespread confidence in our decisions.
 Mr. Hoon : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for her observations. I repeat the point I made a few moments ago. The important principle running through the Green Paper is that we should seek above all else to give effect to the intentions of individuals. Their intentions in relation to how they may choose to die are as important as how they may choose to live their lives.
 Mr. Hoon : I have made it clear that the Government are prepared to consult on almost every question in the Green Paper, save for the one of euthanasia.
 Mr. Hoon : I have not heard of that situation, although I shall certainly examine it. If the hon. Gentleman will write to me or to a colleague in the Home Office, I am sure that, between us, we will be able to deal with that important matter.
 Mr. Hoon : There is no need to repeat my and the Government's opposition to euthanasia. I share the hon. Gentleman's views. I recognise, and said as much in the statement, that there are difficulties about advance statements. That is why there is to be such extensive consultation. I specifically made the point about changes in medical technology. After all, such changes are responsible for many of these problems arising. Therefore, it is important to take account of the hon. Gentleman's point as we consult on these proposals.
 Mr. Foulkes : My right hon. Friend and I are spending some time examining all our projects to see how effective they are. The Select Committee on International Development could carry out the role that my hon. Friend suggests. I assure him that, under the White Paper to which the hon. Member for Daventry (Mr. Boswell) referred, projects such as the Pergau dam would receive no support from the new Labour Government.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for International Development (Mr. George Foulkes) : Our Department offers a broad range of support to encourage the adoption of appropriate intermediate technology solutions in developing countries through our country programmes, our research and knowledge work and through the joint funding scheme for non-governmental organisations.
 Mr. Foulkes : The transfer of our technology to transition countries in eastern and central Europe has been achieved through the know-how fund. Some of the techniques used by the know-how fund can now be extended to developing countries, especially in the area to which the hon. Gentleman referred. We have supported successful work in South Africa to train young unemployed people in information technology. Those people have obtained work very quickly, which shows the effectiveness of our support for such work in those countries.
 Mr. Foulkes : The project to which my hon. Friend refers is precisely that to which I was referring earlier. I am very pleased that—I hope next week—I shall be able to meet him and the organiser of that project.
 Mr. Foulkes : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his support for the Government in this matter. We have offered to finance a comprehensive study of all possible air links and options to improve access to St. Helena by air. The only ministerial visit to St. Helena was made in 1699, which indicates how difficult it is to get there.
 Mr. Foulkes : Last week, I met the delegation of councillors from St. Helena and had useful and constructive discussions with them. As my hon. Friend knows, however, lead responsibility for the dependent territories lies with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. I am discussing with my colleagues ways in which contacts between Her Majesty's Government and the Government and people of St. Helena can be developed constructively.
 Mr. Foulkes : I understand the hon. Gentleman's views on citizenship. That matter is being considered sympathetically by other Departments. I assure him, however, that we have agreed with the St. Helena Government a country policy plan that, over the next three years, will involve expenditure by the United Kingdom Government of £26 million, which is £1,500 per capita—the highest per capita expenditure of any of our programmes.
 Mr. Foulkes : I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman's visit did not stick in the minds of the St. Helenian councillors I met last week—although I am sure that it stuck in his mind. I assure him that the views of the people and representatives of St. Helena will be taken fully into account in an access study.
 Mr. Foulkes : We greatly welcome the Machel report and have already pledged £200,000 to enable the newly appointed UN Secretary-General's special representative on children and armed conflict to begin his work to co-ordinate international action in response to the report. In addition, we have offered to host a meeting in London during our presidency of the European Union to encourage our European partners to give sympathetic consideration to the special representative's work and priorities.
 Mr. Foulkes : The White Paper was feeble on no subject. It was greatly welcomed by all the
 998
 Mr. Foulkes : My hon. Friend is right to highlight the issue. It is a terrible tragedy that when parents have died in conflicts or from diseases such as AIDS, a young child heads the household. The new special representative, Mr. Otunnu, is well qualified to undertake his task and we shall give him all the support we can.
 Mr. Foulkes : We are certainly not planning to scrap the programme. We are looking at precisely what the
 1001
 Mr. Foulkes : Expenditure plans for the next financial year are under negotiation now between officials of my Department and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. The Chevening scholarship programme is funded by the Foreign Office. My Department contributes only in countries where we have an aid programme and excludes military training. We are currently reviewing how our contribution can be made consistent with the aims set out in the White Paper, particularly that of poverty eradication.
 Mr. Gerald Bermingham  (St. Helens, South) : The Minister's statement is welcome and covers a considerable number of fields. I suspect that Law Commission reports and other evidence that will result from the consultation will spawn not one Bill but a number of them to deal with separate areas. If that occurs and such legislation is needed, for example, for the protection of carers and people with mental incapacity problems, if I may put it that way, does he agree that such Bills ought to be dealt with by way of a Special Standing Committee whose examination would precede debate in the House?
 Mr. Gerald Bermingham  (St. Helens, South) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I seek your guidance and assistance. Last night in the Aye Lobby the roof began to leak. It leaked through the electric lighting apparatus, thus causing the common risk found in industrial premises where electricity is mixed with water: the risk of fire. Anyone who knows anything about industrial safety knows how dangerous that is.
 Mr. Gerald Howarth  (Aldershot) : Further to that point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I was in the Lobby with my hon. Friend the Member for North Shropshire (Mr. Paterson), and I ask you—
 Mr. Howarth : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Howarth : Madam Speaker is always telling hon. Members that she believes that her duty, first and foremost, is to protect the rights of hon. Members, and especially the rights of Back Benchers. I urge you, Mr. Deputy Speaker—
 Mr. Gerald Howarth : I understand the difficulties that the Minister faces in terms of the legalities. The hon. Member for Tatton (Mr. Bell) raised some procedural matters—for example, the failure to provide an inventory of the personal effects taken from Major Stankovic's home—which the Minister could properly deal with. Any of us who had had items removed from our home would feel, at the very least, that we should have a proper inventory of all that was taken. The hon. Gentleman referred to Major Stankovic's medals, and perhaps the Minister might also be able to address that point. Will he ensure that the MOD police provide an inventory of all items taken from the major's home?
 Mr. Gerald Howarth  (Aldershot) : I am most grateful to the hon. Gentleman for giving way and for having given me notice that he intended to raise the subject. I represent Aldershot, the home of the Parachute Regiment. The hon. Gentleman is explaining that the major has not been allowed to talk to anyone serving in the Army. The Parachute Regiment has been adroit in representing the interests of some of its past members who have been in trouble. Does the hon. Gentleman know whether former members of the Parachute Regiment have been able to assist him or the major, and are they supporting him?
 Mr. Gordon Prentice : I have been asking myself why we are doing what the Government propose. On the radio this morning, John Humphrys asked the Secretary of State whether we are doing it because we have to or because we want to. I was not satisfied with the Secretary of State's reply. 1075
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : Why is it not possible for the Government to tax child benefit—a universal, non-means-tested benefit that goes to both the poorest and the richest in the land—at the top rate, and use the money to avoid penalising the very poorest who are in single-parent families?
 Mr. Harry Cohen  (Leyton and Wanstead) : I have written to the Minister about backdating being limited to a month, and I am grateful for his response. Perhaps in his winding-up speech he will address the issue of bereavement. After the death of a loved one, many widows are in shock, and sorting out their finances will not be their top priority in the month following the death. Many of them may not be capable of sorting out their finances in that time. For example, there may not be close family members to help them. Within the marriage they may not have been in charge of finances or, indeed, had anything to do with them. Perhaps the deceased had full control of the finances. Widows might not know that they are suddenly poor and eligible to apply for benefit.
 Mr. Hilton Dawson  (Lancaster and Wyre) : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that one of the main reasons for the resounding defeat of the Conservatives at the polls on 1 May was the scandalous level of child poverty which was brought about by the policies of the previous Government?
 Mr. Flight : I thank my hon. Friend for pulling out further the point that I was making. I would add that one also has to see things from the point of view of married couples who are on low incomes. There was great resentment about the way child benefit applied: people saw lone parents receiving what they thought was an unfair benefit. There is a different view of how we deal with the problem of poverty.
 Mr. Howard Flight  (Arundel and South Downs) : First, I do not see that the financial arguments in favour of the measure before us tonight stand up. This afternoon, we heard the Prime Minister catalogue hundreds of millions of pounds of expenditure that the Government have introduced. Welfare to work and lone parents are related matters, and the hon. Member for Brent, East (Mr. Livingstone) was right to say that it is not enough simply to argue the case for staying within the pledged spending levels.
 Mr. Flight : The position of the Conservative party has been made clear. We do not in principle agree with there being differential rates of benefit as between married people and single people. How to tackle poverty and lone-parent poverty in particular is a broader issue, and there are other ways of doing this. It is a question of principle, not one relating to the drafting of the Bill. 1070
3.  Mr. Flight : When the change in status of the Commonwealth Development Corporation to a public-private partnership will take place. [18423]
 Mr. Flight : Are the Government willing to consider bringing private sector shareholders into the CDC, given that they would help to confer the benefits to which the right hon. Lady has referred? If so, what kind of shareholding might the Government wish to retain, and—potentially—what kind of outside parties would they want to bring in? I think that the House should know where the Government are going.
 Mr. Bayley : If the measure is such a bad idea, why did the hon. Gentleman's party support it before the election?
 Mr. Hugh Bayley  (City of York) : I realise the enormous pressures on single parents. One in particular in my constituency came to me. She was a woman of the sort that my hon. Friend is talking about. She was under 18 and had had a baby. She wanted to go to technical college because she wanted to train and then to get a job and provide a decent standard of living for her child. Social security and education rules do not allow a 17-year-old mother to receive child care, so she was prevented from going to the college. Should we not consider the needs of lone parents who want to work by providing those child care opportunities, rather than saying to lone parents, "You have to spend your time on benefit for years to come"?
 Mr. Duncan Smith : It is Labour Members who should dream on, for they will have many nightmares in the next few weeks and months. Even today's editorial in  The Times [Interruption.] The Times "The trouble comes because Ms Harman's arguments are often either opaque or inconsistent. Unlike the Tories, she is reluctant to make the case that the benefit system should not be loaded in favour of single parenthood". The Times
 Mr. Iain Duncan Smith  (Chingford and Woodford Green) : It has been a long evening, and I do not intend to detain the House for longer than necessary. Labour Members will be pleased about that. It has certainly been a long evening for the Secretary of State, but I am intrigued to see that not a single other member of the Cabinet is present to support her after what has clearly been a difficult time for her. When her right hon. Friend the Prime Minister spoke of tough decisions, I did not think that he meant this sort of decision. 1133 [Interruption.] 1134
 Mr. James Gray  (North Wiltshire) : Does my hon. Friend agree that the same phenomenon applies to the beef industry? Last week, we saw the lowest prices ever for beef on the hoof in Chippenham market, but the supermarket price remains miraculously unchanged.
 Mr. Jeremy Corbyn  (Islington, North) rose—
 Mr. Corbyn : She has not seen me.
 Mr. Jim Murphy  (Eastwood) : I listened with some interest to the comments of the hon. Member for West Chelmsford (Mr. Burns). It takes much more than one speech in opposition to make up for Conservative policies during 18 years in government. All we have heard from the Opposition thus far are hollow words and empty rhetoric. That should come as no surprise. However, I shall also refer in some detail to comments made by Labour Members.
 Mr. Murphy : It would be better to ask my ministerial colleagues directly. As the hon. Gentleman said, we both attended that Scottish Grand Committee meeting, at which it was pointed out that there is a new opportunity, and that the Government are trying to redress the previous imbalance. As I said, although we have inherited the spending limits, we have disowned the strategy. 1049
 Mr. Murphy : I shall not give way, because I am just concluding my speech. I am on my last sentence. I have also read what you think, and, in recent weeks, I have watched you on television. Therefore, I am well aware of your comments.
 Mr. Murphy : The hon. Gentleman—
 Mr. Murphy : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Murphy : I have already said no. I am sure that you will have an opportunity to participate in the debate.
 Mr. Murphy : My hon. Friend says, "No, he will not", but my hon. Friend the Member for Brent, East (Mr. Livingstone) has been participating in it for some weeks.
 Mr. Paice : May I make it clear to the hon. Gentleman that the Conservative party is happy to have a public inquiry? However, we are anxious to ensure that the setting up of an inquiry is not used by the Government as a smokescreen to curb other action that may be necessary immediately. I am sure that the hon. Gentleman will agree.
 Mr. James Paice  (South-East Cambridgeshire) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. James Paice  (South-East Cambridgeshire) : I want to follow the example of the hon. Member for Ross, Skye and Inverness, West (Mr. Kennedy) and concentrate entirely on agriculture, in particular livestock producers in the hills and uplands, where the crisis is most acute. 941 942
 Mr. James Wallace  (Orkney and Shetland) : Does my hon. Friend agree that one of the great concerns for many farmers, especially tenant farmers who own no land, is the way in which the cut in the money for the over-30-months scheme has cut the capital value of their businesses? For many farmers, that capital value represents their pension. With a stroke of a bureaucratic pen, many British farmers' pensions have been cut.
 Mr. Joe Ashton  (Bassetlaw) : Is it not an amazing, breathtaking coincidence that the Government have managed to make a 20-minute statement just before my ten-minute Bill? May I reassure my hon. Friend that my Bill is not about euthanasia, and does not advocate euthanasia? I do not think that there was any need to make the statement today.
 Mr. Joe Ashton  (Bassetlaw) : I beg to move,
 That leave be given to bring in a Bill to enable a person who is suffering distress as a result of his terminal illness or incurable physical condition to obtain assistance from a doctor to end his life; and for connected purposes.
 Mr. Ashton : She was a very brave woman, as my hon. Friend says. She would have been sitting here today if, unfortunately, she had not died two weeks ago. 1026 "It is not euthanasia to give a dying person sedatives and analgesics for the alleviation of pain, even though the drugs may deprive the patient of reason or shorten his life." "would have a generally permissive approach to the double effect of relieving pain and shortening life." 1027
 Mr. John Austin  (Erith and Thamesmead) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I am grateful for the assurance that you gave the House in response to my hon. Friend the Member for St. Helens, South (Mr. Bermingham), but are you aware—
 Mr. Austin : It is a separate matter. You said that the situation was safe, but were you aware that the London fire brigade was denied access to the Lobby after it had been summoned?
 Mr. John Burnett  (Torridge and West Devon) : We welcome the Government's open-minded approach to a difficult question. We realise that this part of the law is fraught with conflicts of interest. What is essential is independent advice for donors of extended powers of attorney, and for anyone considering making a so-called living will. Moreover, any witnesses to such documents must have proper independent medical qualifications. I hope that the Government will bear in mind the essential nature of those points before the matter proceeds further.
 Mr. John Burnett  (Torridge and West Devon) : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. John Greenway  (Ryedale) : A few years ago in the House, I successfully sponsored a change in the criminal procedure affecting those who are mentally disordered and who come before the courts. I welcome the Minister's statement about the need to extend that arrangement to deal with people with mental incapacity. Does he agree that it would be a tragedy if the reporting of his statement led to its being seen purely in terms of a statement about euthanasia?
 Mr. Hayes : Does my hon. Friend concede that the principle at stake is one that does not stigmatise individuals in specific categories, but looks at poverty in terms of income rather than in terms of broad and bland categories? That is the difference between the Conservative approach and the Labour approach: it is not that we do not care about the poor, but we want to identify the right people to whom we should pay benefits.
 Mr. John Hayes  (South Holland and The Deepings) : For benefit of the House, would the hon. Gentleman care to repeat and elaborate on his allegation that a significant number of disabled people claiming disability living allowance are not disabled, but are perfectly fit and able-bodied? Will he take this opportunity either to withdraw that allegation, or to confirm and justify it?
 Mr. Home Robertson : My right hon. Friend may recall that a former Prime Minister once said that the national health service was safe in her hands, but that we ended up with a demented, bureaucratic internal market in which doctor had to compete against doctor and hospital had to compete against hospital, and patients had to be very patient indeed. Will my right hon. Friend confirm that this week's White Paper is an important step towards reinstating the NHS as a national health service? I must choose my words carefully, but may I say that it is very welcome that we are implementing a vital socialist policy so early in our career.
 Mr. McAllion : Does my right hon. Friend agree that Governments, in particular the Governments of poor countries, must remain free to impose restrictions on foreign inward investment, whether that is to protect their populations or their environments? If she does, can she assure the House that the Government will never sign up to any multilateral agreement on investment that allows multinationals or transnational corporations to use the World Trade Organisation to overrule restrictions that have been placed on inward investment by Governments in the interests of their people and their environments?
4.  Mr. McAllion : What is her assessment of the impact of the proposed multilateral agreement on investment on measures to reduce inequalities between rich and poor countries. [18424]
 Mr. McDonnell : Can my hon. Friend produce any leaflet, any reference in the Labour manifesto or any leaflet in his constituency or elsewhere, in which we gave a pre-election commitment to cut lone-parent benefits? Can he produce any reference to that in the manifesto?
 Mr. McDonnell : Can my hon. Friend produce a reference?
 Mr. John McDonnell  (Hayes and Harlington) : In view of my hon. Friend's assurances that the Government will keep the issue monitored and in the light of the concerns that he has expressed, may I suggest that he uses his good offices as chairman of the parliamentary Labour party to meet those on the Government Front Bench during the debate and agree on a free vote?
 Mr. Randall : Only 1 per cent. of the United Kingdom aid budget goes towards sustaining biodiversity. Does the Secretary of State have any plans to increase that percentage, bearing in mind the fact that, at the current rates of habitat destruction, the forests of Africa could disappear by 2050?
 Mr. Swinney : You will appreciate, Mr. Deputy Speaker, that I am a new hon. Member. I do not know whether any prizes are available to new hon. Members,
 1062
 Mr. Swinney : Thank you for your helpful advice, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I will not try that one again.
 Mr. Swinney : We need to be clear about the basis of the issue that we were talking about. It has been well established for many years that, compared with couples, lone parents face differential costs in bringing up a family. The evidence from the family budget unit, the Policy Studies Unit and the Social Security Advisory Committee all points in that direction. "There is a good rationale for designing a benefit structure for one parent families which takes account of the now quite well established fact that the removal of one adult from the household does not reduce all normal costs proportionately and may add costs which are specifically related to one parenthood". "One of the outcomes of this analysis is that the needs of lone parents appear to be at least as great as, or more than, those of couples with children." "insufficient grounds for concluding that a Lone Parent on Income Support is overcompensated financially compared with a couple with children". 1060 "The way to get lone mothers out of poverty and cut spending on benefits for them is not by cutting the amount on which they have to live year by year and plunging them further into poverty."— [ Official Report 1061 "Our approach will not be to cut the social security budget by making the poorest poorer."—[ Official Report "Reducing one-parent benefit will again reduce incentives to work." "The freezing of lone-parent benefits is a triumph of harsh moralism over humanity … and … dogma."—[ Official Report
 Mr. Swinney   rose—
 Mr. John Swinney  (North Tayside) : On a separate point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. On a day on which it has been made clear that the Opposition will support the Government on child benefit for lone parents, would it be
 1032
 Mr. John Swinney  (North Tayside) : The hon. Gentleman said that the Government have inherited the previous Administration's spending targets; we have heard that often enough. Why is it that the Secretary of State for Scotland, at a meeting of the Scottish Grand Committee that the hon. Gentleman and I attended last week, boasted of having greater expenditure to hand—the Chancellor has done the same—whereas the Secretary of State for Social Security is not prepared to move on her proposals? Why does she hold that position when more money is available?
 Mr. Swinney rose—
 Mr. Swinney : Are we to assume from the hon. Gentleman's last remarks that the headlines are more important than the issues? Are we to assume that the  Daily Express
Q2. [18452]  Mr. Townend : Why was the Prime Minister not more honest at the election on another matter? Why did he not tell middle England that savers who took full advantage of TESSAs and PEPs would be penalised? Is that not the height of hypocrisy when the Paymaster General—the man who dreamt up these proposals—is a beneficiary of a multi-million-pound Channel Islands trust? Does this not show that, under new Labour, fat cats flourish while middle England suffers? The Prime Minister said, "Put your trust in me." His Ministers put their trusts offshore.
 Mr. Bradley : As the hon. Gentleman is well aware, we are a listening Government. The proposals are still making their way through the House. They will have to go to the other place, and further representations will be made. Final regulations will eventually be laid before the House for further debate. Until then, there is always an opportunity to make changes. If we accept his new schedule today, however, and add it to the Bill, that opportunity will be lost. I assume from his intervention that he will not press his new schedule.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Social Security (Mr. Keith Bradley) : I shall deal first with amendment No. 2, new clause 2 and amendment No. 6. The amendments seek to provide longer general time limits for the backdating of late claims for benefit—12 months and three months respectively rather than the one month that we propose. Amendment No. 2 and new clause 2 would return us to the position prior to the changes that were introduced in April by the previous Administration. They would not only cause the savings resulting from our proposals to be lost but introduce further costs of about £135 million a year. 1109
 Mr. Bradley : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his comments. I shall come to that specific point a little later in this reasonably brief summing up. I shall first complete the list of exceptions. 1110
 Mr. Bradley : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for enabling me to repeat the point that exceptions for learning difficulties are included in the list. 1111
 Mr. Keith Bradley : The amendments would impose additional duties on the president of the appeal tribunal and the chief social security commissioner. Each year, there are 300,000 appeals and such detailed examination of all of them would not be practical, given that fewer than one in 3,000 may eventually become a so-called test case. Examining each case would also create further unnecessary delays in the appeals process. The appropriate time to consider whether there is a general issue of importance is after a tribunal has decided an appeal and one of the parties has applied for leave to appeal on a point of law.
 Mr. Livingstone : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I have just had a message on my pager which says, "A vote is expected in the next few minutes." May we have an assurance that you will allow the debate to continue? A large number of hon. Members have sat here throughout the debate. I was lucky to be called, but there are many more who wish to speak. May we have an undertaking—
 Mr. Livingstone : Will my hon. Friend give way?
 Mr. Ken Livingstone  (Brent, East) : Will my hon. Friend give way on that point?
 Mr. Livingstone : If my hon. Friend is inviting me to undertake daily trench warfare against the Labour Government, I would be prepared to do it. I was working on the assumption that I would be reluctant to join Opposition parties in any Lobby. We are forced to do that tonight because, despite the fact that we were promised an open consultative Government, all the representations that we have made in private letters to members of the Cabinet, and all our private delegations, have achieved not one jot or tittle of change in the policy. We have been talking to a brick wall. 1059
 Mr. Livingstone : I listened with interest to the chairman of the parliamentary Labour party, my hon. Friend the Member for Ealing, Acton and Shepherd's Bush (Mr. Soley) and I heard nothing to persuade me to change my mind. I shall vote against the proposal. 1058 The Guardian
 Mr. Kevin McNamara  (Hull, North) : I am concerned about the Government keeping the matter under review. Governments keep enormous matters under review from time to time. We are concerned about the families that will be disadvantaged, as my hon. Friend has eloquently told the House. We want an undertaking that they will not be disadvantaged in cash terms.
 Mr. Kevin McNamara  (Hull, North) : I trust that the House will not feel that there is a lack of compassion on any side of the argument about such a dreadful and painful subject. Many of us have had experiences similar to that of my hon. Friend the Member for Bassetlaw (Mr. Ashton), either directly in our own families or on the periphery of decisions to turn off life-sustaining machines. Therefore, no one should be seen as lacking compassion. [Interruption.] 1028
 Mr. McNamara : I shall not speak for long, because I had a good opportunity to express my views earlier. 1135
 Mr. McNamara : No. I will not give way to the hon. Gentleman because, unlike so many of my hon. Friends, he has not been in the Chamber since 3 pm today hoping to make his point.
Q5. [18455]  Mr. Laurence Robertson : Is the Prime Minister aware of the enormous number of representations that I and other hon. Members have received from councils, charities, companies and individuals regarding the removal of advance corporation tax credit? Does he accept that, devastating though his raid on pension funds will be, his Government would have been subject to far less opposition if he had at least been honest about his intentions before the election?
 Mr. Laurence Robertson  (Tewkesbury) : When the Minister discusses employment opportunities in the countryside, will he bear in mind the enormous impact a hunting ban would have on countryside employment?
 Mr. Hoyle : Is my right hon. Friend aware that there has been a downsizing in my constituency of Chorley,
 1009
 Mr. Llew Smith  (Blaenau Gwent) : Does my hon. Friend accept that we have not inherited those policies but have chosen to carry them on, and that, because there is an element of choice, we can say no tonight?
 Mr. Malcolm Bruce  (Gordon) : I wonder why.
 Mr. Chisholm : How I voted on that issue is a matter of record and I do not propose to speak about it now. "initiate a study into the system of land ownership and management in Scotland". 946
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland (Mr. Malcolm Chisholm) : I congratulate the hon. Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine (Sir R. Smith) on securing this debate on the rural economy. We have had an informed and wide-ranging debate that has covered many areas of public policy. The House will be aware that I do not have responsibility for all—indeed, for most—of those areas, but since May I have visited many parts of rural Scotland in connection with my responsibilities for transport, local government housing and European structural funds. 945
 Mr. Chisholm : In a minute.
 Mr. Chisholm : I have only four minutes left, but I shall take an intervention at the end of my remarks about beef. 947
 Mr. Chisholm : I accept that point. The Government are giving it further consideration, although some of the factors, such as high interest rates, have to do with the incipient inflation we inherited from the previous Government.
 Mr. Chisholm : I have only three minutes left, I so I shall take only one intervention, from the hon. Member for Tiverton and Honiton (Mrs. Browning).
 Mr. Fisher : I am concerned that serious broadcasters did not take my hon. Friend's request more to heart, given that public service broadcasters have a responsibility to cover events in the House. He might have noticed that there is another Adjournment debate tomorrow, on the broadcasting companies' responsibilities to cover debates in this Chamber, which might be of some interest to him. 983
 The Minister for Arts (Mr. Mark Fisher) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for North-West Norfolk (Dr. Turner) on securing an Adjournment debate on the important issue of television reception in his constituency, on which he and I have recently corresponded. As he says, the issue is of interest to a wider range of people, because it affects many rural areas in different ways. 981
 Mr. Bell : I believe that Major Stankovic has wide support within the regiment and, indeed, within the Army. A retired member of the regiment would be ideal. In some
 972
 Mr. Martin Bell : As time is running out, will the Minister find it in himself to address two points: the protection of the rights of Major Stankovic, and the provision of a serving or ex-serving military officer to help and advise him?
 Mr. Bell : I am grateful for the intervention by the right hon. Member for South-West Surrey (Mrs. Bottomley). She mentioned Major Stankovic's family, and this is a time of great anxiety for him and of distress for his 75-year-old mother. May I say how grateful I am to see the Minister here, and how much I appreciate what he does? I believe that the armed forces are lucky to have him. That is genuine; I regard him as a friend. 973
 Mr. Martin Bell  (Tatton) : I am grateful for the opportunity to initiate a debate on an important case. I shall keep my remarks as short as possible, to allow others to speak. It is a debate about procedure and about a serving Army major who has been arrested under the Official Secrets Act 1911. It is not a debate about substance, as the major has not been charged. I do not know what any charges will be, or what they can be, because, during the relevant period, he was serving with the United Nations force in Bosnia—a force which, by definition, has neither secrets nor enemies—and, therefore, he could not be accused of passing a secret to an enemy. "We really must consider you our friend since what you have done for us is a huge thing. Such people who are prepared to help others risking their own lives are people who really must be considered friends. Therefore, one more huge thankyou for what you have done—you and that great humanitarian, General Rose." 971
 Mr. Matthew Taylor  (Truro and St. Austell) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Norwich, South (Mr. Clarke) on securing this debate this morning. It is important not least because the House rarely gets to
 953 954 955 956
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The hon. Gentleman will be aware that it is entirely at the Chair's discretion who is called to speak and in what order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I have already dealt with that point of order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Last night's incident involving a small flood above the ceiling of the Aye Lobby has been reported to me. I understand that, although water entered the electric light fitting, causing some smoke, fumes and shorting, there was no risk to hon. Members during the Division. The fitting was isolated and has now been repaired.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I am not aware of that detail. If that is the case, I am sure that the matter will be noted.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I understand that Madam Speaker made some remarks about the amount of noise in the Chamber today. I hope very much that hon. Members will heed those remarks.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : With this, it will be convenient to discuss amendment No. 1, in clause 70, page 46, line 35, leave out from beginning to end of line 1 on page 47.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I have dealt with that point of order, and there is no need to return to it.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Perhaps it would be helpful to the House if the Chair expressed a willingness now to accept a vote on amendment No. 1.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The conversation in the Chamber is growing louder. I know that hon. Members
 1123
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : With this, it will be convenient to discuss amendment No. 4, in schedule 4, page 59, line 29, at end insert— 'Appeals in certain types of case— 8. The Chief Social Security Commissioner shall be under the same duty as respects appeals pending under section 15 of this Act, as is the President under paragraphs 10(1) and (3) of Schedule 1 to this Act.'.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. The House must come to order. There are far too many private conversations going on in the Chamber.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I am in control of the situation in the Chamber. I have given a ruling on the matter that was raised, and it was a good ruling.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I hope that it is not a repeat of what we have already had.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. I will take no further points of order on that matter. I control what happens in the Chamber. I call the hon. Member for New Forest, West (Mr. Swayne) to present his petition.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : That was not a point of order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The right hon. and learned Gentleman said, "Further to that point of order," but it was not a point of order. I therefore hope that he will not continue.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. Please be seated, as I have not yet dealt with the point of order raised by the hon. Member for Guildford (Mr. St. Aubyn)—which was not a matter for the Chair. I am also quite sure that the
 1153
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I shall take them separately.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : I can say only that the Chair has observed the rules of the House. I will leave it at that.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The hon. Gentleman knows that that is not a matter for the Chair.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : With the permission of the House, I shall put together the motions relating to delegated legislation.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. That is not a point of order. I do not possess a pager, so I do not know what the hon. Gentleman is talking about.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : I have seen the hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Lady is not giving way.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The right hon. Lady is not giving way.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The hon. Gentleman knows me better than that.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. The House has been good natured up to now, so let us continue in that manner.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. We must move on.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr Michael J. Martin) : Order. It is time for the next debate.
Q1. [18451]  Mr. Clapham : If he will list his official engagements for Wednesday 10 December.
 Mr. Clapham : I know that my right hon. Friend is aware that coal makes a significant contribution to the British energy economy. Nevertheless, the United Kingdom deep coal mining industry is facing a crisis. Will my right hon. Friend consider short-term measures that may help the industry, such as looking at the negotiations with the French on the interconnector, introducing a restraint on opencast mining and increasing the stocking obligation of the generators? That would allow the British coal industry to survive until the initiatives of my hon. Friend the Minister for Science, Energy and Industry have been introduced.
 Mr. Neil Gerrard  (Walthamstow) : I know that many colleagues want to go home, so I shall be brief, but I want to say something about my position. As a result of the debate, I have taken decisions which will result in my losing my job as a parliamentary private secretary. I want to make it clear why I have done that. It is something that I very much regret having to do. I cannot in all conscience support one of the clauses of the Bill—the clause that cuts single-parent benefits, which my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State said had been the main issue of debate today. I hope that the Government will look at what happened and how this problem arose. 1144 1145
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton : Further to the point of order raised by the Liberal Democrat Member, Mr. Deputy Speaker— [Laughter.]
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : Further to that point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. In support of the hon. Member for St. Helens, South (Mr. Bermingham), I should like to say that this is not the first time that that roof leak has taken place. It has taken place at least once, if not twice before. The authorities of the House should put the matter right. It is intolerable that we should be subjected to this experience.
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : As a Member who is totally opposed to euthanasia in any situation, I am grateful to the Minister for his considered and detailed statement and for saying that the Government are totally opposed to euthanasia in any situation. However, he was less than frank about living wills or advance statements. Does he not accept that there are problems in this area, particularly when life-saving treatments may be developed after a person has made such an advance statement? He needs to look at that area with particular care, and so does the House.
 The Parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Nick Brown) rose in his place and claimed to move
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Mr. Nick Raynsford) : The hon. Member for Christchurch (Mr. Chope) has secured a useful opportunity to discuss our proposals for the financing of local authorities' revenue expenditure in the coming financial year. He has rightly focused on matters of concern to his area of Dorset, which is the subject of the debate. He ranged rather widely, and we got as far as Cambridge; none the less, I shall focus specifically on the Dorset area. 1160 1161
 Mr. Raynsford : I regret that I cannot, because I have been left very little time to reply, and the hon. Gentleman did not ask in advance for permission to intervene in the debate. 1162
 Mr. Raynsford : The hon. Gentleman took rather more than the customary time, leaving me less time than is the normal courtesy to reply to his questions. I was giving him a detailed response on the issues that he raised, including the rationale for changes in the SSA methodology. I intended to come to his other specific points, but if I do not manage to do so, because time runs out, that will be his fault, not mine. 1163
 Mr. Raynsford : I am sorry, but time is short and I must continue. Official Report 401–02 991 992
 Mr. Raynsford : Two issues arise from the hon. Lady's comments. First, we attach considerable importance to local authorities reviewing and updating their development plans regularly. Plans should not be allowed to remain in force for many years, long after they have ceased to be an accurate and up-to-date reflection of need. Regular updating of plans is essential. Secondly, there is no reason why changing patterns of use will not create new economic circumstances not envisaged previously. After all, we are talking about sites that, 20 or 30 years ago, were considered as being exclusively for industrial use. Planning policies at that time envisaged the maximum separation of residential development from such sites. 990
 Mr. Raynsford : I hear what the hon. Lady says, but I refer her to my earlier comments about the importance of local authorities taking a more proactive role in determining appropriate uses for sites in development plans. If local authorities adopt that approach, there will be an appropriate level of response to the future needs of sites. If a site is not designated for housing purposes in a development plan, it is entirely understandable—nder the plan-led system that we operate—that developers who acquire that site in future, anticipating the level of costs associated with decontamination and remediation for non-housing purposes, will say that it is not possible for the site to meet the higher standards required for housing. That is why it is essential that there be the greatest clarity possible in the planning system. Authorities should determine as far as possible in advance what is an appropriate use for a site so that all parties involved are aware of the implications and the associated costs.
 The Minister for London and Construction (Mr. Nick Raynsford) : I congratulate the hon. Member for Richmond Park (Dr. Tonge) on initiating the debate. I understand why she has raised the subject, but I hope that she will equally appreciate that I cannot speak about any particular cases, such as those in her constituency, which are either sub judice or where an appeal might be lodged with the Secretary of State in the future. That is simply the product of the proper rules that guarantee that any such appeal that comes before the Secretary of State must be dealt with on a strictly impartial basis. I am, nevertheless, pleased that the hon. Lady has chosen this subject for debate because it gives me the opportunity to set out clearly the Government's policy. 986 987 988
 Mr. Nick St. Aubyn  (Guildford) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I believe that I have witnessed a serious infringement of hon. Members' rights to bring their constituents' concerns to the attention of the senior member of the Government. Earlier this evening, in the Lobby, my hon. Friend the Member for North Shropshire (Mr. Paterson) tried to approach the Prime Minister and was physically restrained by Labour Members. He was trying to perform his duty as a Member of Parliament. Will you please bring the matter to the attention of Madam Speaker?
 Mr. Evans : I am grateful for that answer. While targeting the poorest countries, will the Secretary of State also take note of the pockets of poverty in other parts of the world? I make a particular plea on behalf of Brazil, where Church groups and other voluntary organisations are working to help with the problem of the street children.
11.  Mr. Evans : What plans she has to assist the poorest countries in the world. [18431]
 Mr. Waterson : I do not want to weary the House by going over the arguments for new schedule 1 yet again, self-evident and excellent though they are. Suffice it to say that the Minister has not explained adequately why he is not prepared to accept it. I am genuinely surprised that he is not. If he can write a letter to the Committee setting out the exceptions in such exquisite detail, there is no reason why that should not be part of the Bill. I shall move new schedule 1 formally, and I ask my hon. Friends to join me in the Lobby.
 Mr. Waterson : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman for dealing with my point in such detail. Leaving aside small technical matters, does he now, as of today, envisage any significant additions to or subtractions from the list of exceptions, as shown in our new schedule and in his letter to the Committee?
 Mr. Nigel Waterson  (Eastbourne) : Clause 72 is not only draconian in its effect, but is perhaps the only truly original part of the Bill. It was not proposed by the previous Government, but is entirely home grown. It might be for the convenience of the House to say that we intend to divide on new schedule 1. 1104 1105 "had not decided on the range and type of specific exceptions". "it was only very recently that final decisions could be taken on the range of exceptions". 1106 "the Minister's statements in Committee do little to reassure us. We remain extremely concerned that these measures will severely penalise many vulnerable older people who do not claim benefits as soon as they become entitled to them." "The effect of clause 72 will undoubtedly cause additional hardship to many of the most vulnerable older people." 1107 "these were interpreted by many as new concessions". "the Government's reasons for imposing further limits on the back-dating of benefits have little to do with a rational appraisal of what is most fair and logical, and everything to do with making further benefit savings." "it is only too evident that back-dating provisions are an essential `back-stop' to the present fragmented benefit structure." "If any amendment imposed such a requirement on us now, the problems of administration—which is already complex, bureaucratic and inefficient—would be exacerbated, as our current systems cannot always work in the integrated fashion to which we aspire."—[ Official Report, Standing Committee B 1108
 Mr. Ashdown : The Prime Minister has talked about a choice of priorities, and about limited resources. Very well then: if he were to close the loophole used by the very rich to avoid taxes through offshore trust funds, that would generate a sum equivalent to twice what is needed to restore the cut for lone parents. If there is a choice of priorities, why does he not do that first?
 Mr. Ashdown : The Prime Minister has a choice; he has just ignored it. We agree with the Government about the need to break dependency. We applaud them for providing child care for single parents who want to work. But why does that have to be paid for by single parents who have to stay at home? Does the Prime Minister not realise that people are simply bewildered about why a Labour Government should choose to ask the poor to pay for the poor while the rich can continue to duck their taxes?
 Mr. Patrick Nicholls  (Teignbridge) : The hon. Gentleman is making a most persuasive case. He must be embarrassed even to be associated in any shape or form with such a measure. Will he have the courage of his convictions and urge the right hon. Member for Yeovil (Mr. Ashdown) to come off the Cabinet Sub-Committee and make a real gesture against the measure?
 Mr. Paul Burstow  (Sutton and Cheam) : Will the Minister take into account during the consultation period a situation in my constituency in which a family's application for British citizenship was successful, except for one member of the family? Under current rules, that family member was deemed not to be able to understand the British constitution, and was therefore not able to qualify as a British citizen. That is a monstrous situation, and it should be corrected through legislation which the Green Paper will make possible. Will he examine the matter?
 Mr. Goggins : It may be a good question and I am attempting to answer it. I was aware that the proposal to cut benefit was built into Tory spending plans. Therefore, when I was campaigning, I knew that that cut was a possible consequence of the campaign. If I win an election on a platform that says that Labour will stay within spending limits, I have to face the question: if we restore this benefit cut what other benefits am I prepared to cut to make up the difference?
 Mr. Goggins : Having studied these issues and followed them carefully over many years, but particularly in the run-up to the election, I was aware at that time that cuts were built into—
 Mr. Paul Goggins  (Wythenshawe and Sale, East) : As many hon. Members have said, this is not an easy issue. As a new Member, I am aware that this is the time for clear judgment and to be as honest and as truthful as we can be. I have noticed that truth and honesty seem to have disappeared in the media recently as they have dived down into their usual cynical attitudes. The Guardian 1079
 Mr. Goggins : I am sorry, but my hon. Friends cannot have it both ways. The simple fact is that there is a £400 million commitment here and, if that cut is restored, another cut elsewhere in the budget will have to be found. It is a painful fact for me and for many of my hon. Friends, but it is none the less a fact. 1080 "As in many other areas of our social policy, we have got to face facts and achieve the maximum we can within the resources available."—[ Official Report
 Mr. Paul Tyler  (North Cornwall) : Did my hon. Friend note that no fewer than 1,000 south-western farmers
 937
 Mr. Peter Bottomley : What about your tie?
 Mr. Peter Bottomley : Should we not re-examine the question of roundabouts? When the local authority in Cambridge discovered that most accidents to cyclists took place at roundabouts, they removed them, which led to a significant reduction in the number of casualties.
 Mr. Peter Bottomley  (Worthing, West) : Hon. Members are listening with interest to the hon. Gentleman, whose comments we support. Given the role of district and borough councils and the highway authorities, which are often county councils, one of the best things would be to encourage those organisations to work out what would help their staff to travel to work by bicycle. They should make all their staff, not just the bicycling officers, sensitive to what could be done easily, fast and cheaply to encourage bicycle use. That would set an example that could be followed by other employers.
 Mr. Peter Bottomley : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that if the people who can influence others, such as teachers, school governors going to their meetings, and parents, started cycling instead of pointing the finger and telling other people to cycle while they themselves go around in their 1.5 tonne steel waistcoat with the radio blaring, it would be far more likely to help others to put that into practice? Could we start by encouraging Westminster city council, with or without the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions, to put an advance stop line for bicyclists at the bottom of Whitehall, and make a bicycle lane as well, and perhaps close the gates of the House of Commons car park for one day a year?
 Mr. Peter L. Pike  (Burnley) : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. Is it not the advice and view of the Speaker of the House of Commons that, when a Division is called, Tellers should be provided? On numerous occasions, has not Madam Speaker frowned on the type of practice that we have seen in the past half hour?
 Mr. Snape : I will not give way again. I have heard enough nonsense from the Liberal Democrat party. In that way, Liberal Democrats can assure everyone that they are on their side, whatever the issue.
 Mr. Snape : Many of those people had previously claimed incapacity benefit and were encouraged to switch to disability living allowance. Hon. Members who had any dealings with such people know full well that they were encouraged to do so, and we know why that was— it was so that the outgoing Prime Minister could boast about the falling unemployment figures. That is the simple fact and if the hon. Gentleman thinks that it is a dramatic revelation, he is even sillier than I thought he was when he was first elected. 1069
 Mr. Snape : The hon. Gentleman may get cheap plaudits from his hon. Friends. They are used to giving
 1068
 Mr. Snape : Twenty-five years ago, when I was first elected as parliamentary candidate for West Bromwich, East, the area of the black country that I have had the honour to represent since then was regarded as a fairly affluent part of the United Kingdom. Unemployment was 3 or 4 per cent. and British manufacturing industry regarded the black country as its heartland. Before I come to the central point that we are debating, I want to say to some of my hon. Friends that none of them should underestimate the damage that 18 years of Toryism have done to the fundamental nature of British society and to pride and especially working-class pride in areas such as mine. 1067 Daily Express Daily Mail
 Mr. Peter Snape  (West Bromwich, East) : It is safe to praise them now that they are all dead.
 Mr. Snape : Is the hon. Gentleman aware that in such a serious debate the last thing that Labour Members wish to hear is praise for the Labour party as it used to be from someone who has spent all his political life attacking it?
 Mr. Snape : Will the Prime Minister help the House in tracing the £190 billion of public money revealed recently by the Liberal Democrats as being available for expenditure on public services? Has he heard the rumour that the money has been buried in a magic forest by the leader of the Liberal Democrats, where it is being guarded by his economic advisers—Tinky Winky and the rest of the Teletubbies?
Q3. [18453]  Mr. Willis : I returned this morning from Ireland, having met about 40 women's groups in Belfast yesterday, all of which asked me to convey a message to the Prime Minister about lone-parent benefits. They have few child care facilities and live in areas of high unemployment, yet he wants to take a benefit away from them and harm the poorest people when he should be tackling the rich. Will he accept what the Chancellor is reported as saying in  The Guardian today
 Mr. Piara S. Khabra  (Ealing, Southall) : You, Madam Speaker, know that, a few years ago, I introduced the Voluntary Euthanasia Bill. There was much opposition to it not only outside but inside the House. The House is a conservative body, and it either does not accept changes in the law or takes a long time to make such changes. That has been the House's history. Similarly, people are not yet prepared to accept that individuals require freedom. Does my hon. Friend accept that—although we talk about many types of freedom in the House, and our new Government are prepared to give more freedom to the individual—voluntary euthanasia is the only freedom
 1023
 Mr. Quentin Davies  (Grantham and Stamford) : On a point of order, Mr, Deputy Speaker. Is it not a long-standing parliamentary convention that when a Minister is defending a particularly unpopular Government policy and is embattled on a major matter, the Prime Minister—and, if there are financial aspects, the Chancellor of the Exchequer—come to support that Minister on the Front Bench? Is it not a sad departure from that convention that the Secretary of State for Social Security has been left so friendless on the Front Bench tonight?
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan  (Cardiff, West) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Robert Walter  (North Dorset) : Will the Minister give way?
 Mr. Burns : Hon. Friend.
 Mr. Burns : No, because I am about to conclude my remarks. 1048
 Mr. Burns : I am awfully sorry, but the hon. Gentleman seems to be under a misunderstanding. I shall explain towards the end of my speech why he has misunderstood.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Burns : I shall give way out of a spirit of generosity.
 Mr. Burns : The hon. Gentleman repeats the argument that was made throughout the country by the right hon. Lady before the election that a cut in lone-parent benefit would continue or increase the poverty of children and lone parents. If that is true, why has the right hon. Lady reversed her argument? The Independent 1044 "We are accused of breaking promises we never made, often by opponents who introduced the very measures they now criticise us for not reversing." "Do not let anyone fall for the nonsense that Labour priorities are Tory ones or that we have done just the same as them." "No…we believe we can avoid that situation within the existing budgets." Morning Star [Interruption.] "People voted Labour because they believed that there were alternatives. Lone parents took heart from our stance when these matters were debated during last November's budget". "Labour members spoke passionately against these cuts, aided by a very useful briefing issued by our shadow social security team". "Since One Parent Benefit is not taxed, it helps to bridge the gap between welfare and work. Its abolition will make working lone mothers worse off and will discourage work amongst this group. Lone Parent Premium recognises that lone parents face additional costs in bringing up their children. They do not have a partner's time or income to help with children."
 Mr. Burns : I believe that problems in the benefit system should be dealt with by means of income-related benefits rather than a blanket benefit that is provided regardless of the financial position of the group concerned. "A more efficient means for raising the living standards of parents and children on welfare is a substantial increase in the lone parents' premium". "The Secretary of State"— "says that he is cutting benefits to lone mothers because they are at an advantage compared with married couples. The truth is that they are at a disadvantage. Perhaps he does not realise that when people move from being in a couple to being a lone mother, they become worse, not better, off." 1043 "it is not fair to the families of women who bring up children on their own. They will be worse off." "make hundreds of thousands of the poorest children worse off."— [ Official Report
 Mr. Burns : No, I will not. 1046 Yorkshire Post "It was all too easy for Labour in Opposition to ridicule Tory attempts to curb benefits for single mothers…However, if the Labour leadership did not realise the vacuity of this argument then, it does now." "It would, of course, be asking too much of the Social Security Secretary to present her own policies with any kind of coherence, but her insistence that there is a pent-up demand for work among single parents is not borne out by statistics. Although most single parents do admit to a desire to work, the vast majority say that they do not want to work immediately. This is reflected in the American experience, where the provision of child care has not resulted in a large number of lone parents taking jobs. Also, there appears to be no firm foundation for offering more help to single mothers than to poor married couples." "Early information on the New Deal for Lone Parents has been very encouraging". 1047
 Mr. Burns : No, I will not.
 Mr. Burns : I appreciate the hon. Lady's comments. I was not seeking, in the nicest possible sense, to congratulate her. I simply respect the consistency, honesty and bravery of the hon. Lady and her hon. Friends. Tribune "When the Tories first proposed lone parent benefit cuts last year, Labour described them as 'particularly spiteful' and argued that the way to get lone mothers out of poverty and cut spending on benefits to them is not by cutting the amount on which they have to live year by year and further plunging them into poverty."
 Mr. Simon Burns  (West Chelmsford) : This is a debate that the Government would clearly prefer not to have. I know that the Government Whips have been extremely busy in the past few days; I only hope that it is not because of their activities that the hon. Member for Brent, East (Mr. Livingstone) has had to come into the Chamber on crutches this afternoon. The Government would prefer not to have the debate because it shows up what they really are: guilty of the utmost hypocrisy. That is not a word that I use lightly, but it is the only word that can be used to describe the Labour party's action, and the Government's opposition to the new clause and amendment No. 1. 1042
 Mr. Burns : I am afraid that the right hon. Lady is wrong: there is no but. The next sentence reads:
 "That argument was absolutely right then and is absolutely right now." Tribune "a family whose children go shoeless while we pay for a trip to the Bahamas for a rich uncle … impoverishing children is no way toward a fairer Britain".
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : In support of my hon. Friend the Member for Northavon (Mr. Webb), may I tell the Minister that in my inner-city constituency, hardly a week goes by without people coming to my surgery already at risk or having suffered loss of benefit because they have not been able
 1103
 Mr. Simon Hughes : I will detain the House for two minutes. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Hughes : As I said, I represent the same borough as the right hon. Lady. It is one of the two local authorities in England with the highest number of lone-parent families—four out of 10 families in our borough are single-parent families. I just do not believe, and nor will they, that in a borough which is also among the 20 boroughs with the highest unemployment rates in Britain, those parents will have a chance to go back to work in the future. To take from them what they have, against the promise of something that they may never have, is not a fair deal for them. 1146
 Mr. Timms : I very much welcome my hon. Friend's reply. He will know that the report for the United Nations Children Fund, for which Mrs. Machel was responsible, highlighted the issue of households headed by children. He will also know that it is estimated that there could be 80,000 such households in Rwanda following the conflict there, that there are many more in Uganda as a result of the conflict in the north of that country and as a result of AIDS, and that there are more such households elsewhere. Does he agree that the issue needs to be recognised in a policy? Will he tell the House what steps the Department is taking to address the issue of households headed by children?
7.  Mr. Timms : What steps she is taking to encourage implementation of the Machel recommendations on children in war zones. [18427]
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : As my hon. Friend is flanked by both Scottish and English Health Ministers, may I ask whether the Government will revisit the possibility of tabling amendments to the Human Tissue Act 1961 to allow a hospital to take the organs of those in whom clinical death has been established by at least two surgeons—neither of whom will be the beneficiary as a renal transplant surgeon—to increase the number of available tissues? That was discussed in detail in a debate that I initiated on Friday 3 March 1979, and has also been discussed in ten-minute Bills. I think that the proposal is well known to Health Ministers, and it would seem to provide an opportunity for legislation.
 Mr. Dalyell : To pursue the point raised by the hon. Member for Aldershot (Mr. Howarth), I would never dream of asking my hon. Friend the Minister to interfere in an investigation; the issue that I raised was the behaviour of the military police, as described in the public prints, which appeared not to be acceptable to a possibly distinguished and brave man.
 Mr. Tam Dalyell  (Linlithgow) : From the public prints, are not we entitled to ask whether the role of the military police will be seriously looked at, as that certainly is within the purview of the Minister's Department?
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I can assure the hon. Gentleman that although I have always attacked Labour policies I have great respect for people who, in all sincerity, say what they believe and fight for it. As he well knows, I have also had a few problems with my own party. I am not trying to score points against Labour—or the Conservatives. I hope that hon. Members will appreciate that if Labour Members vote for something that they promised the people they would not do, and thereby impose hardship on individuals, the Labour party may suffer a little but the integrity of politics, Parliament and democracy will suffer far more. I would say the same to any Government. If they promise before an election not to do something and then do it two or three months later when there has been no fundamental change in the economy, they will simply lose respect for our democracy. 1057
 Sir Teddy Taylor : I hope that they are not all dead. If they were, I would be very sad indeed.
 Sir Teddy Taylor  (Rochford and Southend, East) : The hon. Member for Ealing, Acton and Shepherd's Bush (Mr. Soley) speaks with great authority and meets more important people than I am used to meeting. Having heard the hon. Member for Eastwood (Mr. Murphy), I wonder whether it is wise for anyone to listen to me; the hon. Gentleman will obviously go very far, very quickly, whereas I have been here for 33 years and have got nowhere. 1056 [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
5.  Mr. Boswell : What assistance she is offering for the adoption of intermediate technology by developing countries. [18425]
 Mr. Boswell : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that intermediate technology is not second best if it is the appropriate technology to meet the need? British companies and non-governmental organisations are particularly strong in that area. As the White Paper was rather feeble on this subject, will he make amends by giving it an enhanced emphasis?
 Mr. Tom Brake  (Carshalton and Wallington) : At lunchtime today I spoke at the Sutton carers forum, which represents 20,000 carers in that London borough. Hon. Members will probably not be surprised to learn that carers are alarmed by the Government's proposals relating to invalid care allowance and its backdating by only one month. "The care of your loved one is more than enough to worry about without the added problem of dealing with bureaucracy. The change to a carer's financial position is one that only becomes apparent once life has settled down after the initial shock."
 Mr. Tony Benn  (Chesterfield) : I do not know whether there will be a vote on Third Reading, but if there is I shall vote against the Bill. I should like to tell the House why. 1138
 The Prime Minister (Mr. Tony Blair) : This morning, I met with ministerial colleagues and others and will have further meetings later today.
 The Prime Minister : We are looking at many of the things that my hon. Friend has discussed and put on the agenda today. I understand that the three main
 1003
 The Prime Minister : I believe that, in the choice of priorities that we have available to us, helping lone parents off benefit and into work is the best thing that we can do for them. That is why we have a package worth £200 million specifically for lone parents.
 The Prime Minister : I am sorry that the right hon. Gentleman says that the figure is £5 million. It is not £5 million or anything like it. Over a period of time it amounts to hundreds of millions of pounds. It is important to emphasise that lone parents currently on benefit will lose no cash whatever. Of course the right hon. Gentleman is right to point out that the effect is to equalise arrangements for married couples on the same income. If the Government had unlimited resources, no doubt such a change would not be necessary, but we believe that it is better to spend the available resources on helping lone parents off benefit and into work.
 The Prime Minister : I am sorry, but the right hon. Gentleman is wrong. I have in front of me the comments that we made before the election. We said that
 "We will stick within the existing budget" "we can offer better and different ways of getting single parents back into work."
 The Prime Minister : First, as I said in answer to an earlier question, the tax promises of the Labour party were clear before the election and we have kept every single one of them—[HON. MEMBERS: "No."] Yes we have. Secondly, in relation to advance corporation tax, the Confederation of British Industry welcomed the changes we proposed, which is merely an indication of how far away today's Tory party is from business. Thirdly, after the initial transition period, there is a £2 billion corporation tax cut for business as a result of the changes—yes, cut for business—and it is this Government, a Labour Government, who have introduced the lowest corporation tax rate and the lowest tax rate for small businesses this country has ever seen.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is absolutely right— [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : The point on tax that the right hon. Member for Yeovil (Mr. Ashdown) made earlier is nonsense: the money is not available to substitute in the way that he said. I hope that the hon. Gentleman said to people in Northern Ireland that £140 million was there specifically to help people, including lone parents, off benefit and into work. 1008
 The Prime Minister : We hope very much that we can reach agreement in Kyoto. If we can, it will be an extremely important step forward. If the percentage reductions currently under discussion are agreed, it will be less than we and other European countries might have wished, but it will be a huge step forward from where we were even a few weeks ago.
 The Prime Minister : Secondly, in relation to individual savings accounts—as I pointed out to the
 1007
 The Prime Minister : First, the hon. Gentleman is wrong in what he said about the Paymaster General.  [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : I am glad to hear it. I await with interest the application of the right hon. Member for Richmond, Yorks (Mr. Hague). My hon. Friend is right in that many of those who used to support the Conservative party can see what a hopeless shower the party is, in opposition as well as in government, and are coming over to the Labour party.
 The Prime Minister : My hon. Friend is absolutely right, despite the scorn and derision of Opposition Members. Much of the crime in our country today is created exactly as a result of high levels of deprivation, with families that are sometimes third-generation unemployed. That is precisely why we are putting £3.5 billion into the welfare-to-work programme, which will allow those youngsters to come off the dole and have some chance of finding work and opportunities for the future. That is a better and more intelligent use of resources, allowing them to stand on their own two feet and be independent, and giving them the chance, often for the first time in a generation, to work and earn a decent standard of living. That is the way to help people on benefit.
 The Prime Minister : Of course I recall that, as I recall all the violence and injury caused by the Provisional IRA over a very long period, but if we cannot get parties talking in the process we will never get a lasting settlement to the problems of Northern Ireland. Every party to the talks process has to sign up to the principles of democracy and non-violence. In my view, it is essential that if they do so they are treated in the same way as other parties, which means meeting me and other people in the course of the process.
 The Prime Minister : Bit radical, that. Madam Speaker— [Interruption.] 1010
 The Prime Minister : First, on the banning of beef on the bone, as the hon. Gentleman knows, advice was tendered a week ago by the Spongiform Encephalopathy Advisory Committee—the scientific body that advises us. The chief medical officer then gave his advice and we followed that advice to the letter. Had we not followed that advice, we would have been subject to criticism.
 The Prime Minister : I certainly think that Tinky Winky would make a better economic spokesman for the Liberal Democrats.
 The Prime Minister : First— [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : That is simply not right. The right hon. Gentleman says that he fully supports our welfare-to-work programme, and the arrangements for single parents under that programme, but his party refused to support the windfall tax that brings it about. As I explained to one of his hon. Friends last week, the Liberal Democrats will sit there and ask for more money for everything. [HON. MEMBERS: "No."] But they do; not just for schools and hospitals, but for jobs, transport and the environment. There are limited resources.
 The Prime Minister : What the right hon. Gentleman says is simply incorrect. In the Budget measures were announced that will raise some £1½ billion through closing various tax loopholes. The Liberal Democrats will always say that there are easy, painless ways of getting money.
 1006
 The Prime Minister : First, as I pointed out before, for existing lone parents there is no cash loss of benefit. The change effectively means that those who come on and become lone parents will get the same as couples on the same income. That is not exactly as my hon. Friend has represented it.
 The Prime Minister : I am sorry, but that is simply not correct. My right hon. Friend made it clear before the election, as I did— [Interruption.]
 The Prime Minister : The right hon. Gentleman has still not told us whether he supports our welfare-to-work package. As for the difference in priorities between the Conservative party and Labour, there is the £3.5 billion welfare-to-work programme; that is not a Tory policy. There is the £1.2 billion school building programme; that is not a Tory policy. There is the £900 million release of capital receipts; that is not a Tory policy. There is the £50 extra help with heating bills for pensioners; that is not a Tory policy. There is the section 11 funding cut reversed by this Government; that is not a Tory policy. There is also the housing benefit change reversed by this Government; that is not a Tory policy.
 The Prime Minister : We made it clear before the election that we would stick within the existing budget. We said that it was important to give lone parents a chance to get off benefit and into work. That is why we have not only the £200 million programme for lone parents as part of the new deal, but the £300 million programme for after-school clubs and centres. That will mean that all lone parents will have after-school care for their children. Independent research suggests that lone parents who get work will receive some £50 a week more. We have made a simple choice within priorities. Now perhaps the right hon. Gentleman will say whether he will support us in our programme to help lone parents off benefit and into work, where they will be better off.
 The Prime Minister : I am sorry, but once again the right hon. Gentleman is reading out only one part of the sentence. I said before the election:
 "We will stick within the existing budget…but we can offer better and different ways of getting single parents back into work."
 Mr. Hague : Tonight we shall vote for a principle that is right, while the Labour party will be dragged through the Lobby to vote for a measure which before the election it called shameful, malign and completely wrong. Is that
 1005
 Mr. Hague : The Prime Minister is quite right to pursue that policy. I asked why he was not straight about its implications before the election. Does he recall saying on Radio 4 when asked about it:
 "No, we believe we can avoid that within the existing budgets"?
 Mr. Hague : We will support the Government when they are right and we will oppose them when they are
 1004 "No, of course not"? "a shameful attack on lone parents"?
 Mr. Hague : Why, then, did the Prime Minister not have the courage to say that before the election? Does he recall the Secretary of State for Scotland saying that the proposal had nothing to do with moral principles or an effective welfare system but was designed to win popularity at the Tory party conference? Will the Secretary of State for Scotland be joining us in the Lobby tonight? Why was the Labour party not straight with people before the election?
 Mr. Hague : Let me ask the Prime Minister the same question again, as he did not answer it. Does he support the principle that married couples should not be discriminated against, or does he just want to save the £5 million at stake next year from the measure?
 Mr. Hague : The Opposition will support the Government tonight, as we believe that married couples should not be discriminated against by the benefit system. Clearly, the Minister who has resigned in the past half hour does not agree with that. Does the Prime Minister believe in that principle?
 Mrs. Mahon : The Secretary of State has been good enough to give way many times and she has answered a couple of questions, but she has not answered mine. If a lone parent chooses not to take part in the new deal because they feel that they need to stay at home with their family, will they be allowed that choice or will the new deal become compulsory?
 Mrs. Alice Mahon  (Halifax) : May I first through you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, appeal to the Opposition not to pay me a compliment tonight? I can get into quite enough trouble with the Whips without any help from anyone else. 1071 "The way to get lone mothers out of poverty and cut spending on benefits for them is not by cutting the amount on which they have to live year by year and plunging them further into poverty."— [ Official Report "Whilst I fully appreciate the current moves to assist those parents who wish to return to work, there are also those of us who feel unable to do this because we feel that if the only adult presence in the home is forced into work, many children will be deprived of their only source of stability and security. This can only cause more problems than it will solve. 1072 A parent who has to leave home before the children do each morning cannot also ensure that they will leave for school at the required time" "A parent who does not get in at night until after children have gone out to meet friends cannot ensure that they have done homework, know where their children are … Children do not need curfews—they need a parent with the time and the energy to do his or her job of parenting properly. Lone parents and their children are already one of the most deprived groups in society, having to function in an economy which is often inflated by two parents working. Moreover, a lone parent is already trying to do a job; the work of two people. Many people, like myself, did not bear children 'out of wedlock' but simply escaped from abusive situations, or indeed, were widowed. As a result, many of us are already suffering from stress, are over-stretched, and struggling. A doctor once informed me that the new generation of anti-depressant drugs … are very expensive … £1 per tablet". 1073
 Mrs. Browning : Does the Minister recognise the difference between the situation facing beef farmers today and that of a year ago? The new situation has arisen because of high interest rates and the strength of the pound. On mixed farms, when beef was down, farmers could continue to survive through milk cheques and payments relating to other sectors, but now all sectors are down. That is why the current situation is such a crisis.
 Mrs. Browning : Will the Minister give way?
 Mrs. Browning : The rural White Paper was not a static document and there was an obligation on the Government to report progress annually. I hope that this Government will continue that.
 Mrs. Angela Browning  (Tiverton and Honiton) : The hon. Gentleman mentions £1 billion. We were told by Ministers at agriculture Question Time last week that the figure was £1.5 billion. I hope that he understands that that money was negotiated by the previous Government, and was in addition to the agriculture budget. That was done to help the beef industry in a crisis. It is incumbent on the Minister to go back and negotiate more money from his Chancellor in another crisis. I hope that the hon. Gentleman will encourage him to do so.
 Mrs. Winterton : My hon. Friend is right. One of the problems with beef is that, while the hind quarter has sold exceptionally well since the beginning of the BSE crisis, there have been difficulties in shifting the cheaper cuts. 933
 Mrs. Ann Winterton  (Congleton) : I am grateful for the opportunity to speak briefly in this important debate. I congratulate the hon. Member for—is it Aberdeen and Kincardine?
 Mrs. Winterton : I apologise. I congratulate him on introducing this debate on the rural areas of our country, which are so important.
 Mrs. Winterton : No. I disagree with the hon. Gentleman, as the Minister was faced with three options and took the most severe one. In doing so, we have all let common sense fly out of the window. Naturally, we all regret the people who have died from the new variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, but those numbers must be balanced against the fact that the chance of contracting the disease is one in 600 million and falling because of the policies that have been introduced over the years to minimise the risk. 934 Farming News "emphasise the damage the badger moratorium is causing". "has lost 20 cows through TB. He was aiming to expand his herd to 120 cows and took on a herdsman in the summer, but after 20 reactors were found, his expansion plans are back on hold."
 Mrs. Winterton : What constitutes medical treatment?
 Mrs. Ann Winterton  (Congleton) : The Minister has maintained that the Government are opposed to euthanasia, yet they have not abandoned those sections of the Law Commission's draft Bill that would enshrine deliberate killing by omission. I refer to the withholding of hydration and nutrition. Is not that euthanasia by the back door?
 Mrs. Anne Campbell  (Cambridge) : Thanks to the policies of the previous Government, we now have very severe traffic congestion in many of our cities. I am fortunate in living in Cambridge, which has tried to cater for cyclists. Does the hon. Gentleman agree, however, that in many cities cycling is quite hazardous and should not be undertaken lightly or with little preparation?
 Mrs. Jackie Ballard  (Taunton) : The speech of the hon. Member for Leicester, West (Ms Hewitt) made me feel, not for the first time in this Chamber, that this was a little like Alice in Wonderland. In one breath she talked about the shambles of the benefits system inherited from the previous Government and said that it needed urgently reviewing and then in another breath she said that the Labour Government had to keep to that inheritance and implement a cut proposed by a Government whose shambles they so despised. No wonder people out there cannot understand half the things that go on in this place. 1066
 Laura Moffatt  (Crawley) : I thank my hon. Friend for his statement, which I very much welcome. As a nurse of some 25 years' standing, I believe that the medical profession will be very pleased with some of the Green Paper's proposals. We often get caught up in discussions about quality of life and assisting people to die, but we often forget—among all the legal talk—the issue of the quality of death. 1024
 Mrs. Maria Fyfe  (Glasgow, Maryhill) : I hope that in reading the left-wing press the hon. Gentleman will learn
 1045
 Mrs. Fyfe : Will my right hon. Friend give way on that point?
 Mrs. Fyfe : I thank my right hon. Friend for her generosity. I am sure that we all agree that most lone parents do want to work if the situation allows them to do so. My right hon. Friend's comments assume, however, that every employer is a nice, kind, generous one who will understand a mother's family problems and will not sack her unreasonably. For the first two years of any employment, people cannot take a case to an industrial tribunal. I know that some of my party colleagues are somewhat distanced from the trade unions these days, but they should realise that not all employers are good ones.
 Mrs. Fyfe : I listened carefully to my right hon. Friend. Will she explain to me why it is her policy that a lone parent in work who loses her job should be treated as a new lone parent and should have a lesser benefit? What is the logic of that?
 Mrs. Fyfe : Will my right hon. Friend give way?
 Mrs. Fyfe : I do not want to let tonight go by without congratulating my hon. Friend the Member for Preston (Audrey Wise). She spoke for real Labour, and party members and supporters throughout the country will be grateful for that and derive hope from it. 1143
 Valerie Davey  (Bristol, West) : This welcome debate takes place at an auspicious time in the context of the Kyoto conference. I am delighted that my hon. Friend the Member for Norwich, South (Mr. Clarke) and the hon. Member for Truro and St. Austell (Mr. Taylor) have mentioned Sustrans, a charitable company that was formed by an imaginative, creative and forward-looking group of people in Bristol in 1979, and that considered in particular how we could have a sustainable integrated transport system, with a focus on cycling. 957 958
 Mrs. Virginia Bottomley  (South-West Surrey) : Major Stankovic is a constituent of mine living in Farnham. I acknowledge the efforts of the hon. Member for Tatton (Mr. Bell) in finding an opportunity to raise his case in the House. Those who have already heard some of the background to the case will be deeply concerned. Clearly, Major Stankovic is an officer who has seen dangerous duty and shown courage in some of the most difficult circumstances.
 Ann Clwyd  (Cynon Valley) : What would my right hon. Friend say to people in my constituency, where there are 1,500 lone parents and 200 jobs advertised at the jobcentre? Where are the jobs to come from?
 Ann Clwyd : Will my right hon. Friend give way?
 Ann Clwyd : I am grateful to my right hon. Friend for giving way. Will she confirm that if a lone parent loses
 1091
 Audrey Wise : Does not the disregard mean that to qualify for a £100 disregard a parent must be able to spend £100 on child care? Is it not true that as most of those parents receive maximum family credit, the extra disregard will not make a ha'p'orth of a difference?
 Audrey Wise : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. 1038 1039 Hansard 1040
 Audrey Wise : Of course we should provide such opportunities. Is that an alternative to providing decent benefit? Actually, we do not have decent benefit. People keep talking about this as though we are asking for an increase. We have not asked for an extra penny. All we have said is, "Please, no Tory cuts." That is a modest demand. 1041
 Audrey Wise  (Preston) : May I make it clear at the outset that, procedurally, my advice to my hon. Friends who share my views is that it would be sensible this evening to vote for the deletion of clause 70, and that can be accomplished by voting for amendment No. 1? That is the clear way to express what we want to express. It has the procedural disadvantage that that vote will be separated from the debate. Nevertheless, it is by far the best way for those who think like me to proceed. I gather from the silence from the Chair that it will be possible to do that, and that we will not find, when we reach amendment No. 1, that the Chair says that there will be no vote as there has already been one.
 Clare Short : I am grateful to my hon. Friend. She is absolutely right: getting proper services to young people is crucial if they are to be able to control their future, to prevent disease and to have the number of children that they want. We are focusing on that priority, but we believe that access to reproductive health services should be part of basic health care systems for all. That is the way in which to achieve a universal service and to reach everyone; and that is our priority.
 The Secretary of State for International Development (Clare Short) : The White Paper on international development sets out the Government's commitment to contributing to international development targets. Among them is the goal of ensuring access to basic health care, including reproductive health services for all by 2015. We believe that all people have a right to be able to control their fertility and to raise healthy, educated children.
 Clare Short : That has nothing to do with debt relief, but it is true that Uganda will be one of the first countries
 994
 Clare Short : My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer leads on debt policy but, as was set out in the recent development White Paper, my Department has a key interest in the rapid and flexible implementation of debt reduction measures that aim to secure debt sustainability for some of the world's poorest countries. We must try to mobilise international support for more rapid progress if we are to reach international poverty eradication targets.
 Clare Short : I am grateful to the hon. Gentleman and I agree with him. The poorest countries must have the top priority for resource transfers and investment to enable them to work their way out of poverty, but many middle-income countries have serious problems. As our White Paper says, those areas do not need big resource transfers, but need support for changes that will protect the neediest people. We are committed to that work, including work with street children in Latin America.  [Interruption]
 Clare Short : We shall focus our energies and resources on the elimination of poverty and mobilising the political will necessary to meet the international poverty eradication targets by 2015. To that end, we shall work in partnership with other donors, Governments of developing countries and others—including the private sector—who are committed to eradicating poverty.
 Clare Short : I do not know whether the hon. Gentleman's figure is correct, but I doubt it. There is a strong and growing environmental strand to our work. We are doing a lot of work on conserving forests in Cameroon, and learning how to conserve the other remaining forests of Africa. Forestry and sustaining biodiversity are major priorities of our work. Some of that work is done through the global environment facility, which is an international treaty that we helped to fund. Work is being done on replenishment, but I share the hon. Gentleman's concerns.
 Clare Short : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for that question. I would be more than happy to investigate the points he raises. I hope that he will let me have whatever details he has. The lesson of sustainable forest management is that if the local poor people can manage the future of the forest, they conserve it. It is when short-term commercial interests come in that we get the destruction of forestry.
 Clare Short : Our technical co-operation programme with Brazil is our largest in Latin America and focuses heavily on the environment. Our major activity is forestry, in particular addressing sustainable management issues in the Amazon rain forest. We are also active in the G7 pilot programme to conserve the Brazilian rain forest which seeks to reduce the rate of deforestation in a manner consistent with the sustainable development of the area's natural and human resources. More widely, we are working to help to ensure that economic development and trade in forestry products is managed sustainably and is combined with protection of sensitive habitats.
 Clare Short : Obtaining agreement on core labour standards and environmental protection so that globalisation does not lead to a levelling down is an enormously important priority for all the people of the world, wherever they live, otherwise we could have what has been called the rush to the bottom. As my hon. Friend knows, there is no prospect of immediate progress on the adoption by the World Trade Organisation of the human rights clause that many people advocate, but we are seeking to make progress through the International Labour Organisation and by introducing incentives in the European Union's general system of preferences in the form of greater privileges to countries that guarantee core labour standards. I agree with my hon. Friend's analysis, but we must mobilise more international support for that objective.
 Clare Short : I think that my hon. Friend's concerns are a little misplaced. Overwhelmingly, the desire of poor countries is to attract more inward investment to bring about the development that will enable them to have the full economic growth that will benefit the poor. The multilateral agreement on investment is currently intended to apply only to OECD countries and says only that Governments who sign up to it voluntarily are not allowed to treat domestic investment and inward investment differently. In that agreement, which the Government hope to sign, we are trying to ensure protection for core labour standards and environmental standards, for example. We are trying to ensure that, if it becomes a model for the future, the future interests of developing countries are protected. My hon. Friend's fears are slightly misguided. We need more investment in those countries, not less.
 Clare Short : The multilateral agreement on investment is designed to introduce rules for investment flows, primarily between Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries to ensure that foreign investors are treated in the same way as domestic investors. The MAI is not designed for poorer
 996
 Clare Short : That topic has been raised in the House before, when I am sure the hon. Gentleman was present.
 997
 Clare Short : I am not sure whether multinational companies are more to blame than Governments for dragging their feet. Companies can promote advertising campaigns, but Governments are responsible for protecting the future interests of the world's people. That is where the primary responsibility lies. I share my hon. Friend's concern and assure him that we are seeking to have the OECD guidelines on multinationals' corporate behaviour associated with the multilateral agreement on investment.
 Clare Short : I am sure that the House should know where the Government are going. My right hon. Friend the Prime Minister spoke about the matter at the last Prime Minister's Question Time and, I believe, the one before that, so there are no secrets; clear statements have been made.
 Clare Short : I am keen to mobilise new investment through the Commonwealth Development Corporation in the neediest countries in the world as soon as possible, but there are many steps to be gone through, not least to deal with the need for new legislation.
 Clare Short : The situation in Zimbabwe is indeed very worrying. We have made our attitude to the current land proposals very clear. I have personally written to the Land Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We have said that it is true that land is distributed very unfairly in Zimbabwe and that we would be willing to back a properly organised system of land redistribution that gives some land to the poor and enables them to improve their livelihoods and reduces poverty in Zimbabwe, but we will not fund or support in any way a scheme that endangers food production and Zimbabwe's economic health. I hope that Zimbabwe's Government will pull back and go for a properly organised redistribution of benefits to people in Zimbabwe.
 Clare Short : There is an enormous difference between our attitude to Indonesia and our attitude to Mozambique. Mozambique is one of the poorest countries in the world and has overcome a terrible civil war. The Mozambique Government are now co-operating with the side they fought in that war, when dreadful atrocities took place. That is a fantastic achievement for the people of Mozambique and for both Government and Opposition there. We believe that, against terrible odds, the Government in Mozambique are trying very hard to bring about development and to eradicate poverty. We want to help them in every way we can.
 Ms Dari Taylor : Many of our youngsters are facing a serious crisis. One in 10 children who are absent from school are supposedly on GCSE courses but feel confident neither about being on those courses nor about their success. Many of them who are in youth courts—some 42 per cent.—are excluded from schools. The previous Administration excluded those youngsters and put them in this position.  [Interruption.] [Interruption.]
 Ms Gisela Stuart  (Birmingham, Edgbaston) : May I congratulate the Minister on his statement, which is welcome? I congratulate the Government on taking the Law Commission's work forward, but, to prevent any confusion outside the House, will he make it absolutely clear that the proposals have no connection with either euthanasia or so-called doctor-assisted suicide?
 Ms Jackson : I regret that my ability to use my bicycle to go to the shops has been somewhat precluded. Given the pressure of work, my ability to go to the shops is almost nil. 968 969
 Ms Jackson : As my hon. Friend points out, that miraculous 1p that the Liberal Democrats were going to
 967
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions (Ms Glenda Jackson) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Norwich, South (Mr. Clarke) on affording the House an
 966
 The Secretary of State for Social Security (Ms Harriet Harman) : But—
 Ms Harman : My hon. Friend has welcomed the extra help through the child care disregard, but says that it does not go far enough—[HON. MEMBERS: "No!"] She says that of itself the disregard—although it is an extra contribution to child care costs—is not enough. I agree with her. It is only the first step. The Chancellor has announced that there will be more help with child care costs through the working families tax credit. 1089
 Ms Harman : The hon. Gentleman—[HON. MEMBERS: "Hon. Friend."] My hon. Friend rightly reminds the House that the Policy Studies Institute research takes account of the income that lone mothers get in work without taking account of their child care costs. I have pointed out that that research also does not take account of the extra help with child care costs that the Government are giving and will continue to give.
 Ms Harman : I have given way about nine times. I am confident that I am about to answer the question that my hon. Friend has not asked.
 Ms Harman : Lone parents want their children to know that work is better than benefit dependency. They want to
 1090
 Ms Harman : Even in areas where jobs are available and where there is a trend for married mothers to go into work, lone mothers get left behind and trapped on benefits. We are trying to ensure equality of opportunity for lone parents to be able to work. Our starting point and our priority for investment is to back them with opportunities to work, whether in part-time or full-time jobs.
 Ms Harman : I agree with my hon. Friend that sex education is important, but European countries which support lone parents with an impressive, high-quality
 1087
 Ms Harman : As I shall explain in a moment, help with child care costs and extra child care provision will come on stream at the same time as the benefit changes for lone parents who are in work.
 Ms Harman : I will deal with the issue of choices in spending later in my speech, but I should like now to deal with the specific measures that hon. Members will vote on today. 1088
 Ms Harman : My hon. Friend raises the important issue of whether our proposals will be a disincentive to lone mothers to take work. I ask her to bear with me, because I shall answer that question. If I do not answer it satisfactorily, I will give way to her again.
 Ms Harman : I shall address that point. The clause deals with the benefits for lone parents who are in work, not the benefits for those not in work.
 Ms Harman : My hon. Friend will know that in that book I also argued that it is important to extend choice so
 1086
 Ms Harman : The hon. Lady will know—
 Ms Harman : We have had a wide-ranging debate covering many issues relating to lone parents, and I will take this opportunity to set out the background to our policy and priorities. 1085
 Ms Harman : We have had a wide-ranging debate—
 Ms Harman : If a lone parent loses her job and goes back to income support, she will get the same rate of benefit for her child as a married couple on the same income.
 Ms Harman : I will press on with my comments because this has been a long debate. I may give way later.
 Ms Harman : Lone mothers are well aware, as is everyone else, that the first job one gets does not necessarily prove to be permanent or a job for life. I believe that lone mothers want to work because they are better off and because they want to set an example to their children. They have said clearly that many of them cannot work because they need help and support to find it. They need practical help with finding a job and with finding accessible, affordable child care. The Government will deliver that through the new deal for lone parents and the national child care strategy.
 Ms Harman : That study was researched before we introduced our proposals. We will implement them. That research does not take account of the extra help we shall give lone mothers with the extra costs of child care.
 Ms Harman : I remind the House that existing lone parents will continue to receive the higher rate of child benefit. We have built in additional protection for lone parents currently on income support. They will continue to be entitled to claim the lone-parent rate of child benefit when they move into work.
 Ms Harman : On the contrary, I certainly had seen my hon. Friend. 1092
 Ms Harman : I will not give way to the hon. Member for North Tayside (Mr. Swinney) because I am about to conclude my comments.  [Interruption.]
 Ms Harman : There is no intention that the new deal should drive lone mothers with young children out to work. We are doing what we said that we would do in our manifesto, which is to offer opportunities for lone mothers who previously did not have them.
 Ms Harman : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read the Third time. 1132
 Mrs. Helen Brinton  (Peterborough) : Does the hon. Gentleman agree that lone parents in work are, on average, £50 a week better off?
 Helen Jones : Will my right hon. Friend join me in welcoming the recent historic decision in Ottawa, where 110 countries joined together to ban land mines? Will he undertake to do everything possible to persuade those countries that have not yet signed the agreement that it is the real way forward to remove that scourge from our planet?
 Jacqui Smith : I thank my right hon. Friend for the commitment that she has outlined. Does she agree that one of the most important steps that the Department for International Development can take is to work with the poorest countries to improve sex and health education and information for young people so that they can make informed choices about their families? What can the Department do to facilitate that?
1.  Jacqui Smith : What initiatives she has taken to promote greater reproductive and sexual health in developing countries. [18421]
 Lorna Fitzsimons : Will my right hon. Friend emphasise the importance of the Kyoto summit and the leading work of the Labour Government in getting the politicians to acknowledge the importance of an agreement for tomorrow's generation, our children, as opposed to the vested interests that some of them seem to be putting first? Will he ensure that all the signatories carry through the agreement to which they sign up?
 Lorna Fitzsimons  (Rochdale) : This is an understandably emotional issue. My constituency of Rochdale has one of the highest levels of teenage pregnancy in Europe, so the issue has evoked much emotion not just within the constituency party but among my constituents. 1076 The Guardian 1077
 Ms Hewitt : The manifesto on which my hon. Friend and I were both elected set out our priorities and said that we would stick to the departmental budget totals that we inherited, and that is precisely what the Government are doing.
 Ms Hewitt : I agree with my hon. Friend's underlying point—that this debate is fundamentally about children growing up in this country with their life chances blighted. The worst aspect of the Britain that we inherited on 1 May is that, in the 18 years of Conservative Administration, the numbers of children in Britain growing up in poverty more than doubled. 1064
 Ms Hewitt : My hon. Friend anticipates a point that I intended to make in a couple of minutes, so I shall make it now. The benefits system by itself cannot close the gap between children in the poorest families, whether lone-parent or two-parent, and those in the majority of families. The Government are creating a strategy that uses every possible weapon to transform children's life chances.
 Ms Hewitt : As we have heard, the Government are reviewing the entire benefits system, constructing from the shambles that we inherited a system that will do what is needed in the 21st century. I am simply saying that I hope that they will consider, as part of that review, a radical reform of child benefit to enable significant new resources to go to all children in families with low and average incomes, be they lone-parent or two-parent families. 1065
 Ms Patricia Hewitt  (Leicester, West) : Will my hon. Friend share with some of his colleagues his reasons for voting with the Government on precisely this issue, on an amendment tabled by the Liberal Democrat party, on 22 July? At that stage, when the decision was being made, why did he not share his concern either with his colleagues or with Ministers, who were making what by every account was a difficult decision?
 Ms Hewitt : Seven months ago—like every one of my right hon. and hon. Friends—I was elected on the basis of the new Labour manifesto. In that manifesto, we promised to give priority to health and education, and that is what the Government are doing. We promised to provide extra help to the poorest elderly people, and that is what we are doing. We promised to reform the shambles of the social security system to enable people to move from welfare to work, and that is what we are doing. 1063 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Webb : The hon. Gentleman will recognise that only a tiny fraction of the windfall tax goes to lone parents and that most of the money for lone parents is coming from the lottery. By no stretch of the imagination is that a hard choice.
 Mr. Webb : If the hon. Lady will bear with me, I shall demonstrate why a lone parent who is currently unwaged cannot expect to be, on average, £50 a week better off.
 Mr. Webb : I am afraid that it is absurd of the hon. Gentleman to suggest that I am in any sense associated with the measure, given that I am one of the
 1036
 Mr. Webb : The right hon. Gentleman has given a good example of the type of short-term, seasonal or contract work that, if taken by lone parents currently on benefits, will result in disincentives, should the Bill go through as it is. 1037
 Mr. Steve Webb  (Northavon) : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time.
 Mr. Webb : The new clause has been tabled in my name and that of some of my hon. Friends and also in the name of Labour Members and nationalist Members, whose support we welcome. With it, we shall discuss amendment No. 1, which is also supported across the House. "I've got a little list 1034
 Mr. Webb : The hon. Gentleman is quite right: we are all aware of hon. Members on both sides of the House
 1035
 Mr. Webb : After more than four hours of debate, I have no desire to detain the House from dividing. We have heard the Secretary of State's response and my colleagues and I feel that it did not take up the key
 1093
 Mr. Webb : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time.
 Mr. Webb : New clause 2 relates to the backdating of benefit claims where an individual does not make a claim on time. Until April 1997, it was possible to backdate a claim for up to 12 months if one had good cause for not making a claim on time. From April 1997, the Conservatives introduced a cut. They removed the idea of good cause and restricted backdating to a maximum of three months. That took £120 million from some of the poorest people in the country, including £50 million from pensioners and £50 from the sick and disabled. [Interruption.]
 Mr. Webb : I am sure that the House will want to move promptly to the vote on amendment No. 1, so I shall be as brief as possible. New clause 2— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Webb : Clause 72 further restricts people's rights when they claim their benefits late. It goes even further than the Conservatives were prepared to go. It takes an extra £60 million from the poorest households in the country, penalises them for ignorance of the system, takes £14 million off pensioners and takes £18 million from disabled people. The losers include 100,000 people on income support. This is not merely discretionary money that does not matter. Basic living standards will suffer. 1100 "Backdating housing benefit can help them keep up to date with their rent, cope in their own homes and not end up back on the streets." "We want to ensure that the system is not run on the basis of getting things wrong and then backdating to sort them out."—[ Official Report
 Rev. Ian Paisley : Will the Prime Minister explain to the people of Northern Ireland how he can argue that he must meet Gerry Adams tomorrow, in the same way as he meets the leaders of democratic parties in Northern Ireland? Is it not a fact that. those other leaders, who represent constituencies in the House, do not come to Downing street with three members of an outlawed Army Council that controls Semtex for bombs and weapons for murder? Is he not aware that those very members were in post when Downing street was blown up in an attempt to kill the previous Cabinet of this country?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Sir Alan Haselhurst) : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : The hon. Gentleman must resume his seat when I am on my feet. I wish to correct him by reminding him that he is addressing the Chair, even in a heated debate.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. It would not have been a very long debate.
 Sir Robert Smith : My point was that the responsibility of government to an individual in a state exists as a continuity, regardless of the fact that there may have been a change in the party of Administration. The present Government have recognised that the previous one was at fault, but the liability lies with the Government to redress some of the burdens put on the farming community, albeit by the actions of a different party; it was still the Government in terms of the relationship with farmers.
 Sir Robert Smith : The Conservatives also introduced rules under which receipts from sales of council houses had to go towards repayment of debt rather than investment in the quality of the local housing stock.
 Sir Robert Smith : West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine.
 Sir Robert Smith  (West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine) : I welcome the opportunity to discuss the rural economy and to raise some rural issues that are specific to my constituency. The rural economy plays a very big part in my constituency. However, as the past week's developments have focused attention on one specific aspect of the rural economy, I shall keep my remarks brief, so that other hon. Members can speak on that topic. 928 929
5.  Mr. Gareth R. Thomas : If he will make a statement on his plans to support the National Year of Reading. [18750]
 Mr. Thomas : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for his reply, and I warmly welcome the National Year of Reading; not least because it will provide an additional impetus for the Government's crusade to raise standards of literacy. As well as encouraging children who can read to develop their skills further, should we not focus attention on those who cannot yet read at all? What plans are there to focus on that specific group as part of the National Year of Reading?
14.  Mr. Tony D. Wright : What representations he has received from employers in the  (a) (b) (c)
 Mr. Wright : I thank the Minister for his response, but does he agree that, in a constituency such as mine—Great Yarmouth—where work in the tourism industry is seasonal and poorly paid, employers taking part in the new deal must recognise that the most important part of the new deal is the training element for young unemployed people in the constituency and throughout the country?
 Dr. Tony Wright (Cannock Chase) : I congratulate my right hon. Friend on—on any test—a remarkable and historic statement. We promised a freedom of information Act in five manifestos, we tried through private Members' routes to enact one, and, despite the report of Sir Richard Scott and, a Select Committee report in which a Conservative majority recommended action, the previous Government failed to do anything.
 Several hon. Members   rose—
 Mr. Lembit öpik  (Montgomeryshire) : I accept that the Government are hesitant about changing this part of the Bill at such a late stage, but does the Minister accept that he now has a good opportunity to make a change which, although it may appear to be a housekeeping change, would significantly strengthen the security forces' opportunities to bring terrorists to book in the courts?
 Dr. Alan Whitehead  (Southampton, Test) : I add my congratulations to the Minister on his statement, which struck a blow for all who believe in transparent government. What consultations does he intend to hold with local government, to ensure that the present machinery under the Local Government (Access to Information) Act 1985 is transferred smoothly into the provisions of whatever Bill is passed?
 Dr. Brian Iddon  (Bolton, South-East) : My right hon. Friend has made a bold statement, which I am sure the people of the nation will warmly welcome. There is nothing worse than fighting bureaucracies. However, will he ensure that people who are seeking legitimate information will not be harassed in any way by, for example, being asked awkward questions about why they want the information, and that they will get information without prejudice?
 Dr. Clark : I thank my hon. Friend for the question. Clearly, it is not the business of Government to determine why an individual citizen wants a piece of information that is held by the Government. There is no bar, no proposed requirement, no stipulated reason why a person should need the information. It is purely a case of an application, per se.
 Dr. Clark : I am afraid that I do not have responsibility for the European Commission.
 Dr. Clark : In the annexe to the White Paper, we set out the times in which departments in various countries have to respond to queries. The period is usually between 20 and 30 days, and we have specifically included that subject in the consultation. My hon. Friend tempts me when he asks me to talk about the sins of the previous Government. For my sins, I was a Front-Bench spokesman for 10 years, on agriculture and on defence. I certainly believe that, if we had had the sort of legislation that we propose, we would have been able to discover much information about BSE, which might have saved a lot of money. We might also have saved much hurt and harm after Chernobyl, which was the subject of a considerable cover-up. In latter years, as defence spokesman, I tried to explore what was behind Gulf war syndrome and, if I could have had access to the information that I would have been able to get under our legislation, much harm and hurt could have been saved and we might have got to the truth more quickly.
 Dr. Clark : It is impossible to ascertain the precise cost, for the simple reason that we do not know what the demand will be. However, based on the code, it is clear that the cost will not be prohibitive. It is a cost well worth paying to open up government and sweep away the secrecy.
 Dr. Clark : The administration of the police is covered in the White Paper. For reasons that we all understand, we distinguish between the operational arm of the police and the administrative arm, but the latter should be covered by the legislation. It is my impression that the information that my hon. Friend requests will be covered, but I shall look into it and write to her.
 Dr. Clark : I came to the House the day before yesterday and apologised for that leak. I repeat that I knew nothing about it and no one was more annoyed about it than I was. We have set in train measures to look into the leak, and we shall have to await the outcome.
 Dr. Clark : As I understand it, a private Member's Bill that deals with certain aspects is shortly to come before the House.
 Dr. Clark : I shall certainly have discussions with the hon. Member for Aldridge-Brownhills (Mr. Shepherd), to find out whether those points can be covered.
 Dr. Clark : I thank my hon. Friend for his kind words. He has taken a particular interest in this area since he has been in Parliament. For all exempted areas, with the exception of policy advice to Ministers, the substantial harm test will be the required test. For policy advice to Ministers, the test will be one of simple harm. My hon. Friend referred to the convention that papers are not made
 1189
 Dr. Clark : The hon. Gentleman has a long and worthy history of trying to bring about freedom of information legislation. I pay tribute to the work that he has done over the years.
 Dr. Clark : I thank the right hon. Gentleman for his kind words, and I appreciate his general welcome of the White Paper. I shall try to conduct the consultations in an open way, as he wants.
 Dr. Clark : I take it as a high accolade to receive compliments from my hon. Friend. 1188
 The Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster (Dr. David Clark) : I am today publishing a White Paper on freedom of information. Its full title is "Your Right to Know—the Government's proposals for a Freedom of Information Act". 1184 1185
 Dr. Clark : I thank the hon. Gentleman for his welcome to the White Paper. We appreciate his sentiments. I listened to his offer of consultation, and I agree that we would welcome consensus on the issue. There will obviously be many opportunities for the widest consultation regarding both the White Paper and the draft Bill. I shall certainly consider ways in which we may take forward discussions in that respect. 1186
 Dr. Clark : I thank my hon. Friend for her welcome for the statement. I share her view that openness is good government. On occasion, one must face up to unpalatable facts. The Government have a good record on the disclosure of information, such as the recommendations of the Spongiform Encephalopathy Advisory Committee on BSE. We have been prepared to discuss with the British people the recommendations of our scientific advisers, and we have followed their advice.
 Dr. Clark : We take on board the point that Governments need space in which to conduct their deliberations and come to their decisions. In deciding on and framing the White Paper, we specifically make the point that it is important to maintain the collective responsibility of government; that it is vital that we retain the political impartiality of public servants; and that we appreciate the importance of free and frank internal discussions in coming to conclusions as a Government. It is because of that that we have a slightly different exemption on policy advice.
 Dr. Clark : There will be a period within which we would expect Government or other bodies to reply to an application. We have suggested times applied in other countries in the annexe to the White Paper, but that is open to consultation. On the latter point, we considered whether we should follow the ombudsman route and direct inquiries through Members of Parliament, but we felt that that was unnecessary and that it was right and proper that the individual should be able to apply for the information on his or her own behalf, directly to the Department and then directly to the commissioner.
 Dr. Clark : Leak inquiries are nothing to do with the White Paper. [HON. MEMBERS: "Oh!"] Let me just— [Interruption.]
 Dr. Clark : In view of the key role that the information commissioner will hold, it is important that we get the right man or woman. The commissioner will be the principal officer, acting under the principal purpose of the Act, which will be to encourage more open and accountable government. It will be his or her job not only to adjudicate on whether information should be disclosed or withheld after an appeal, but to act as a facilitator, to find out whether there are ways in which citizens can find the information if they lose their appeal. Therefore, it is a key role. It is vital to understand that we have gone a long way in this process by insisting, in groundbreaking terms, that the commissioner will have mandatory powers to order withdrawal or disclosure of information.
 Dr. Clark : On the hon. Gentleman's first point, that is a dilemma, but I think that every country excludes—the word is not exempt; it is exclude—the security services from freedom of information legislation. That might not be entirely true, but certainly most countries do. We took the view that if there was only an exemption, it could be challenged. We felt that the security of our nation took precedence in this respect. The House has an Intelligence and Security Committee. There are moves to try to open up the intelligence services, and we shall try to continue with that process.
 Dr. Clark : We have made it clear that we shall include private sector industries that operate on a statutory basis, as well as the privatised utilities and the nationalised industries.
 Dr. Clark : If that involved advice to Ministers, clearly it would be protected from the legislation.
 Dr. Clark : I might just disagree with my right hon. Friend, in that the business is not exactly unfinished; until today, it was unstarted business. We have made a start today, and we intend to push it through. We shall push away the cobwebs of secrecy, and have a modern democratic society where the people of Britain will know the secrets that their Governments hold.
 Dr. Clark : It is a bit rich for Conservative Members to talk about waiting for years for information. While we are waiting for the legislation to be introduced, we are operating under the code of practice introduced by the previous Government.
 Dr. Clark : My hon. Friend is absolutely right to draw attention to the word "substantial". I believe that its use is unique in freedom of information legislation. It means that it will be more difficult to withhold information. The Government have made it quite clear that that is the key component of the White Paper.
 Dr. Clark : I thank the hon. Gentleman. We have published a consultation paper on quangos, and he and I have had an exchange on the subject. On his specific question, I suspect that the body to which he referred would not be covered by the freedom of information legislation, but I shall try to ascertain the precise position.
 Dr. Clark : I am afraid that I have to disappoint my hon. Friend. We have made it clear that we believe that
 1193
 Dr. Clark : As a former president of the northern Ramblers Association, I have a certain sympathy with my hon. Friend's point. Clearly, information held by Government Departments relating to matters such as access to land and moneys being paid by MAFF should be available under the legislation.
 Dr. George Turner : Does my right hon. Friend recognise, however, that Labour councillors face the difficult task—particularly given the changes in SSA and to social services—of having to make cuts in the provision of social services to people in order to deliver improvements in education? As a former education chairman of Norfolk county council, I know that such improvements are important and necessary. Those councillors will need to have a sympathetic hearing from Ministers during the consultation exercise on what in some cases will be dramatic changes in budgeting as a result of changes in the formula. Will my right hon. Friend use his good offices to ensure that representations from those who face such a difficult task are sympathetically heard?
 Mr. Jim Marshall : How many Muslim schools have indicated a desire to enter the voluntary-aided sector? What criteria would they have to meet before such admission?
 Dr. Howells : My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State has received a number of representations in recent months either supporting or opposing the university of Exeter's plans to establish a campus in Cornwall.
 Dr. Howells : My right hon. Friend certainly gave that support. I can recall going a year ago to what one might call inland Cornwall and being shocked by the deprivation that I saw down there: it is one of the poorest parts of these islands. We recognise that higher education and its expansion, and further education and its expansion, can have a dynamic effect on economies in that state. We should like to see every effort made to try to raise those funds; we are barred by statute from telling any institution what it can or cannot do with its funding. We have certainly made inquiries of the Higher Education Funding Council to find out how it regards the project. We wish success to every attempt that is made to raise the sort of money required to expand higher education in Cornwall.
 Dr. Howells : It is a pleasure to answer the hon. Lady, and I will tell her why. Labour Members have known for years that people have been working on rice money, starvation money, which is why we are introducing the national minimum wage. It is why we shall ensure that young people in Cornwall will benefit from the new deal and from training; the new deal will be a tremendous investment. We believe that our proposals for the funding of higher education will increase the pitiably low percentage of young people from lower income families who currently enter higher education.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Dr. Kim Howells) : New students entering higher education in the 1998–99 academic year will be eligible for increased loans in that year to offset the reduction in the level of maintenance grants. In 1999–2000, we propose to abolish maintenance grants. Those students will be eligible for an income-related loan for their maintenance on the same basis as 1999–2000 entrants.
 Dr. Howells : No, I do not agree. The reforms that we are putting in place see primary school teachers as an
 1172
 Dr. Howells : As my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State informed the Committee, as part of their comprehensive spending review, the Government will study that gap closely. They believe that the radical measures taken to secure sufficient funding and ensure a good and healthy future for higher education will also enable us to lift the cap on the number of students in higher education and will be sufficient to meet the long-term needs of that sector.
 Dr. Howells : No, they do not. The figures are slightly down on this time last year—
 Dr. Howells : The hon. Gentleman can sneer, but it is true. What is more, there is evidence that 6 per cent. more students entered this year than the year before, because of the changes that are taking place in education. We think that the take-up by students this year accounts for that small drop in intake.
 Dr. Howells : It has been widely welcomed, and it shows that the Government, unlike the previous Government, recognise the huge potential among disabled people who have felt that they could not go into higher education because of the means test. That has properly been welcomed throughout the country, and will continue to be so.
 Dr. Howells : The right hon. Gentleman knows full well that those figures are extremely volatile at the best of times and that, after Monday, more than 25 per cent. of applications will not yet have been received, so the figures will account for only 75 per cent. They will show important trends, but I put it to him that if there is a downward turn, it will be very temporary, because people understand, as the Government do, that getting a degree is the best advantage that people can get if they want a good job. We shall ensure that they get that degree.
 Dr. Howells : Under our new funding arrangements, universities and colleges will collect private contributions to tuition fees from full-time undergraduate students, building on the arrangements that they already have in place for collecting fees from part-time, postgraduate and overseas students. The higher education funding plans for 1998–99 assumed that institutions in England would collect £130 million from private contributions to fees. That figure allowed for costs of about 5 per cent. for collection, and for any default.
 Dr. Howells : We have already informed universities that the money that they collect will be used in universities to drive up standards, to help with the running of universities. We hope that that will continue. We are interested in lifelong learning. We want universities to be part of a seamless education structure that will allow people to enter university from many directions different from those from which they now enter. That is an important component of all our new schemes.
 Dr. Howells : I can give my hon. Friend that guarantee. He opposes tuition fees, but presumably he does not support the present arrangement, or the ones that led to it, whereby a young person from a family in one of the two lowest socio-economic groups has a two in 10 chance of a university education while someone from a professional or managerial family has a seven or eight in 10 chance. That cannot be right, and that is why we are making the changes.
 Dr. Howells : The hon. Gentleman is known as "two brains", so he will understand that we are members of the European Union and that, as such, we have to abide by European Union law and that that task already has to be carried out. It will be carried out by an agency equipped to do the job. I do not know what mystery there is about that. We will certainly be able do it. The Government will presumably abide by it because it is the letter of the law.
 Dr. Lynda Clark  (Edinburgh, Pentlands) : I congratulate the Minister on the White Paper and I look forward to the open consultation process, which I hope will form a model for other legislation. I am concerned that information will become of no use to people if they do not receive it quickly. Will there be mandatory time limits in the Bill? Will there be any role for Members of Parliament? Is it intended that constituents should come to us before going to the commissioner?
 Dr. Clark : I have already had meetings with local government leaders, and I have been most encouraged by their enthusiasm to be brought within the legislation. They rather enjoyed being able to say that they were more open than us in any case. That is very positive. I have also had
 1196
 Dr. Clark : I thank my hon. Friend for his kind words, and I can reassure him. I hope that the White Paper is being put on the internet at this very moment. That has certainly been my approach, and we may well consider how to put the consultation papers on the internet. I believe that the information technology at our disposal will allow us to put many more Government papers on the internet, and to do it extremely quickly.
 Dr. Clark : My hon. Friend makes a fair point, which I came across in dealing with the aftermath of Chernobyl. One had to go to the United States and Sweden to get the information that appertained to our country. We have made it clear that the Army will be covered in its routine activities by the Act, although obviously operations are a different matter. The case to which my hon. Friend referred should be covered by the legislation that we propose.
 Mr. Norman A. Godman  (Greenock and Inverclyde) : Can I return the hon. and learned Gentleman to the question of persons being interviewed by police officers? Does he agree that there should be no unseemly delay in the access to legal advice for those persons?
 Mr. Godman : The hon. Gentleman mentioned the Government of the Irish Republic. The other day in the Dail, the Minister for Justice, when questioned by two deputies—I think one was John Gormley—said, as a direct response to this Bill, that his Department would review the Irish legislation on internment.
 Mr. Godman : I shall be brief. I want to return to some of the observations made by the right hon. Member for Bridgwater (Mr. King) and a comment made by the hon. Member for Bracknell (Mr. MacKay). 1247 Official Report "if he will take steps to initiate the repeal of the portions of the Offences Against the State Acts, 1939 to 1984, which allow for the introduction of detention without trial in this jurisdiction in view of the intention of the British Government to remove the power to detain persons without trial from the statute book in relation to Northern Ireland." "The Government have already welcomed the intention of the British Government to repeal section 36 of the Northern Ireland (Emergency Provisions) Act 1996, which will remove the provision for detention (internment) in Northern Ireland." "The Government are equally committed to keeping legislation covering offences against the State under constant review and to amending it in the light of changing circumstances as necessary." "Accordingly, it is my intention to bring proposals to Government shortly with a view to initiating a wide-ranging review"— "of legislation in the areas of offences against the State, including, in particular, the issue of internment." 1248
 Madam Speaker : Order. I suspect that the hon. Gentleman's point does not relate to this one, which I will deal with first. What Members say in the House is a matter for them. Providing the language that they use is good parliamentary language, I cannot intervene. Sometimes Members ought to be a little more circumspect in what they say after private meetings, however.
 Madam Speaker : Indeed.
 Madam Speaker : I just hope that letters informing Members that they are to be mentioned will be put on the Board in good time, not at the last moment.
 Madam Speaker : That was barely a point of order, but the hon. Gentleman has got his point on the record. I regret the fact that a Minister has not been able to see him. When I was a Back Bencher I would never have approached a Prime Minister—I was always rather intimidated by Prime Ministers. I should like to help the hon. Gentleman, so if he will let me see the exchange of correspondence with the relevant Minister I shall try to be helpful. It is the Minister responsible, not the Prime Minister, who should be available.
 Madam Speaker : Thank you. We now move on to the business statement.
 Madam Speaker : Order. I really do feel that that question does not concern the White Paper. The Minister has gone as far as he can, and came to the House a few days ago very genuinely to tell us what had happened. With great respect to the hon. Member for Ribble Valley (Mr. Evans), his question has nothing to do with the White Paper that the Minister is presenting today.
 Miss Melanie Johnson : Is my hon. Friend aware that the decision to end the means-testing of grants for disabled students in full-time education has been widely welcomed?
 Mr. Ingram : The hon. Member for Upper Bann made some strong and salient points about the new clause and amendment No. 5. I thank him for paying tribute to those who helped frame new clause 3. Given the debate in Committee, it is important that we get the matter right. The earlier proposal did not quite achieve the objective to which I was prepared to subscribe. The hon. Member for Basingstoke (Mr. Hunter) can speak for himself on new clause 3, but since he has not tabled any other amendment I assume that he supports it.
The hon. Member for Upper Bann did not go into much detail, so it is worth setting it out for the record. New clause 3 and the consequential amendments Nos. 7 and 8 would have the effect that any order made by the Secretary of State bringing into operation or amending a
 1223 1224
 Mr. Ingram : The hon. Member for North-East Cambridgeshire (Mr. Moss) says that it was political pressure.
 Mr. Ingram : I am sorry—I misheard the hon. Gentleman. If the accusation is being made—from
 1225
 Mr. Ingram : That is not in dispute. The reasons behind his change of mind are based on the facts and circumstances that he has to take into account, but how the Chief Constable reached his decision is a matter for him. The Government believe that there is merit in proceeding as we intend and the Government have to be held to account for that, not the Chief Constable. I suggest that the hon. and learned Member for North Down and others who are concerned should discuss the matter with the Chief Constable. He is amenable to talking to hon. Members and to giving full consideration to any points of view that they express.
 Mr. Ingram : Such matters must be weighed in the balance, and that is what my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary is doing. I do not think that housekeeping is the right way in which to deal with such important issues, especially in the context of national security and the relative importance of the crimes whose perpetrators we seek to bring to book. That is why my right hon.
 1219
 Mr. Ingram : I am not ashamed of myself, and an apology is not necessary. If hon. Members are interested in the history of the Bill, they should add up the amount of time Conservative Members spoke in the debate, and then judge the quality of their contributions against the time taken. If amendments had been tabled, we could have had much more substantial debates. I am not criticising the hon. Member for Upper Bann (Mr. Trimble), but, as he said that we now have an opportunity to deal with amendments, it is important to point out that no amendments were tabled in Committee. The official Opposition did not table any amendments: they have tabled an amendment this evening. I was directing my comments at them, and if anyone should feel ashamed, it is the hon. Member for Bracknell (Mr. MacKay), who failed to carry out his responsibilities and provide proper and adequate opposition. Perhaps we are now getting that opposition.
 The Minister of State, Northern Ireland Office (Mr. Adam Ingram) : The hon. Gentleman has made some valid and strong points, to which I shall respond. However, in his opening remarks he said that we were dealing with amendments now rather than in Committee, and he referred obliquely to the way in which the Committee procedure had been handled. I want to say for the record that no amendments were tabled in Committee. If they had been tabled, we could have dealt with them in an appropriate way and at an appropriate time. I also remind the House that something like 12 hours were dedicated to the Bill in Committee. That is also worth putting on record.
 Mr. Ingram : I entirely reject the hon. and learned Gentleman's opening remarks. If we engaged in a discussion about the underlying philosophy and purpose of the Bill, and whether or not it is a confidence-building measure, we would spend considerable time—time that was available to us on Second Reading, which was cut short an hour and a half before it was due to end. I have no intention of going into the details, but I entirely reject the suggestion that the Bill was designed to appease terrorists. Nothing could be further from the truth.
 Mr. Ingram : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I want to deal with the helpful comments of the hon. Member for Upper Bann. If new clause 1 were enacted, it would allow evidence from intercepted material acquired under an Interception of Communications Act 1985 warrant to be adduced in court if it related to a scheduled offence within the terms of section 1 of the Northern Ireland (Emergency Provisions) Act 1996. "The hon. Gentleman asked about Lord Lloyd's proposals in respect of section 9 of the Interception of Communications Act 1985. That is a complicated issue. Lord Lloyd sought to distinguish between interception evidence that arose in respect of a national security investigation—which he said should be adducible in evidence—and other interception evidence, from a customs, police or security service intercept, in respect of the investigation of a serious crime, which he said should not be adducible in court. That is one of the most complex of Lord Lloyd's recommendations. Many take the view that it is very difficult to draw the distinction in practice. There is much to be said on both sides of the argument about whether intercept evidence should be adducible in court".—[ Official Report
 Mr. Ingram : I shall deal with some of the points raised in this very serious and genuine debate. It is worth mentioning that the internment issue was considered at length on Second Reading and that nearly four hours was contributed to it in Committee. Nevertheless, it is an important issue. "Opposition Members believe that internment is undeniably an infringement of civil liberties. It would be folly to pretend otherwise. It would be equally foolish to deny that when internment was introduced in the 1970s, it was a disaster. It was entirely counterproductive, and it left the IRA stronger. The Committee should not spend much time discussing these issues. It should acknowledge that internment is an infringement of civil liberties and that it failed drastically in the past."—[ Official Report, Standing Committee A, 1250 "perhaps the most sinister by-product was the tendency actually to strengthen terrorist networks through increased hostility and criminal skills among those detained."
 Mr. Ingram : I will not give way. The hon. Gentleman spoke for 20 minutes tonight and he set out his arguments in detail in Committee. I am trying to explain why we have taken this decision.
 Mr. Ingram : The hon. Gentleman is very persistent.
 Mr. Ingram : Both a loyalist ceasefire and a ceasefire on the part of the Provisional IRA are in place. We are moving the process forward. No one believes for one moment that it will be easy. There are many difficulties ahead, but we all have a contribution to make in taking forward the process. Abraham Lincoln was mentioned earlier in the debate. He said, "I may walk slowly, but I never walk back." That is a very apposite quote in the context of Northern Ireland. If we go only forward and not back to the old positions, major progress can be made.
 Mr. Ingram : That is helpful, but the right hon. Member for Bridgwater implied that that was a possibility, and I am responding to the points that he made. If it is not a breakdown of the bipartisan approach, that is good.
 Mr. Ingram : May I point out to the hon. Gentleman that the Labour party in opposition carried out the review, and we are now implementing it in government?
 Mr. Ingram : To avoid unnecessary debate, does the hon. Gentleman consider that the Government should not talk at all to Sinn Fein? Should anyone talk to Sinn Fein to move the peace process forward?
 Mr. Ingram : Hopefully, we can debate this quickly. As I understand it from listening to the hon. Member for Upper Bann (Mr. Trimble), the amendment would ensure that, to remain in force, the temporary provisions of the 1996 Act will be required to be continued by order approved by resolution of each House of Parliament before 15 June next year. I was not clear whether that was the hon. Gentleman's intention.
 Mr. Ingram : The debates do not necessarily take place in June. Usually it is earlier, in May, and they can take place earlier than that. Under the procedures of the House, the provisions have to be renewed by that date. We are giving the issue full consideration. What more would be gained by having another debate in a month or so? Anyway, we do not know when the Bill will be referred back to us from another place.
 Mr. Ingram : The fact that the hon. Gentleman is assenting indicates an understanding of the effect of the amendment. The Government included the subsection that the hon. Gentleman seeks to remove so that if the Bill is enacted before June 1998, we can dispense with the need for the annual renewal debates, so he is right in his assessment of what we are seeking to do. However, renewal debates will take place in 1999 and 2000, if necessary, to continue the temporary provisions in force until their expiry on 24 August 2000. 1232
 Mr. Ingram : The amendments refer to offences involving intimidation, petrol bombs, firearms and explosives, and the hon. Gentleman objects to such offences being made capable of being certified out of the schedule of terrorist offences. The amendments would not only preserve the status quo in relation to certain offences that the Government seek to make certifiable out, but would remove certifiable-out status from all scheduled offences under the headings of the Protection of the Person and Property Act (Northern Ireland) 1969 and the Firearms (Northern Ireland) Order 1981. The amendments do not make it clear whether that was the hon. Gentleman's intention, and he did not give us a full explanation, but that is the thrust of the amendments.
 Mr. Ingram : I was coming to that. If the hon. Gentleman holds on for a bit, I shall set out my reasoning on the matter. "any person who makes, or has in his possession, any apparatus, instrument, article or thing which (a) contains any inflammable liquid or substance; or (b) is constructed or adapted for use in conjunction with any such liquid or substance so as to cause injury or loss of life to any person or damage to any property; under such circumstances as to give rise to a reasonable suspicion that he is not making it or does not have it in his possession for a lawful object shall, unless he can show that he made it or had it in his possession for a lawful object, be guilty of an offence under this section." "a person who has in his possession any firearm or ammunition with intent by means thereof to endanger life or cause serious injury to property or to enable any other person by means thereof to endanger life or cause serious injury to property, shall be guilty of an offence whether any injury to person or property has been caused or not." 1234 "any person who unlawfully and maliciously causes by any explosive substance an explosion of a nature likely to endanger life or to cause serious injury to property shall, whether any injury to person or property has been actually caused or not, be guilty of felony".
 Mr. Howarth : The research that my hon. Friend mentions is indeed significant, and demonstrates that this country has lagged seriously behind in the provision of child care. The previous Administration did not think that they had a responsibility to develop a national child care strategy. We shall do so. 1169
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. Alan Howarth) : The precise breakdown of places will depend on the volume and quality of bids received by the new opportunities fund.
 Mr. Howarth : My hon. Friend is right to be worried about the interests of his constituents who may be taking part in the new deal, but I believe that the opportunities that can be provided in the tourism sector will be very important and valuable; it is one of the leading growth sectors in employment.
 1181
 Mr. Alan Howarth : On 24 November, my right hon. Friend the Minister for Employment, Welfare to Work and Disability Rights took part in a major conference for the tourism and leisure industry on the new deal, chaired by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport. He tells me that he was delighted by the range of support and the enthusiasm for the new deal among employers in these important sectors. The Employment Service will now talk to 40 leading companies which participated in this event to discuss their involvement in more detail.
1.  Mr. Alan Simpson : If all young people will have a choice of all options in the new deal programme; what entitlement there is for progress from one option to another; and what is the maximum period that the unemployed will be able to be part of the programme. [18746]
 Mr. Simpson : I am grateful for the Minister's answer. Is he aware that one in four young unemployed people in the east midlands are in Nottingham? Many of them have been around the magic roundabout of short-term fraudulent schemes that the previous Government offered them and are deeply cynical about the concept of training. Does he accept that, for some, securing a regular attendance record over six months would be a major achievement; that we ought to be considering repairing the damage done to those whose cynicism about previous employment initiatives may have been well placed; and that we should allow longer-term continuity to bring them sensibly, and with skills, back into an employable work force?
 Mr. Alasdair Morgan : Bearing in mind the high unemployment in rural areas and the lack of public transport in many such areas, what special arrangements will the Minister put in place to enable the scheme to work in rural areas?
 Mr. George : I thank the Minister for that reply. Does he recognise that there is popular demand for a
 1177
10.  Mr. Andrew George : What recent representations he has received on the provision of higher education facilities in Cornwall. [18756]
 Mr. Andrew George (St. Ives) : Will the right hon. Lady ensure that the shipping Minister comes to the House before the recess to make a statement on the growing concern for maritime safety? There have been a number of incidents in the fishing industry, and more lives are being lost. I refer particularly to the recent loss of the Margaretha Maria, from Newland in Cornwall, when four fishermen died. Their children will face this Christmas without their fathers—and we still do not even know where the vessel is.
 Mr. Andrew MacKay  (Bracknell) : Will the hon. Gentleman tell us whether a Standing Committee on a non-urgent Bill has ever sat on the first day of its proceedings from 4.30 in the afternoon to 5 o'clock the following morning? Is not that an abuse of our procedures, and also why there was not time for amendments to be dealt with later in the Committee stage, as is usual? Is not that the point that the hon. Member for Upper Bann (Mr. Trimble) was making, and is not the Minister ashamed of himself? Would he be good enough to apologise to the House?
 Mr. MacKay : I do not want to detain the House unduly, but I asked the Minister a specific question. Can he recall the first sitting of a Standing Committee not starting until—
 Mr. MacKay : I suspect that that intervention was not in order, but if you will allow me, Mr. Deputy Speaker, I shall respond briefly. I have said on the record on several occasions that I am entirely in favour of the political talks under way at Stormont. It is right and proper that after a ceasefire has been in place for a certain time, Sinn Fein-IRA should be in those talks. We have also said that it is decidedly premature for a British Prime Minister to invite Sinn Fein-IRA leaders to Downing street. I am grateful to the Minister for allowing me to confirm that yet again.
 Mr. MacKay : I have never said to the Minister that this matter is one of the numerous examples of the Labour party saying one thing in opposition to the electorate and another thing when it came to power. I willingly accept that the Minister does not have the same problem of misleading the British public as his colleagues in the Department of Social Security had to face in the House last night. If the hon. Gentleman wishes me to commend him, which was obviously why he made that intervention, I am happy to commend him on his consistency, even though I gently suggest to him that he is mistaken.
 Mr. MacKay : The hon. Gentleman sits on the Government Benches, so he is well aware that a review 1237
 Mr. MacKay : I concur whole-heartedly with my hon. Friend.
 Mr. MacKay : I beg to move amendment No. 6, in page 2, leave out lines 9 and 10.
 Mr. MacKay : Will the Minister tell us whether he voted for all the emergency provisions Acts that we introduced? The answer is no. The Labour Opposition used to vote against them or abstain. Given that he acknowledges that we feel deeply about this issue, it is unreasonable of him to say that by voting against the Government—which we shall do—we are no longer taking a bipartisan approach. That is unreasonable and unfair, and I hope that he withdraws those remarks.
 Mr. Andrew Robathan  (Blaby) : The hon. Gentleman has raised a point which I had not considered. If the amendment is not accepted, the clause could be a gift to terrorists. All hon. Members are very well aware that Sinn Fein and the IRA are very good at manipulating any loophole—however small—in the law. The amendment should be commended by us all.
 Mr. Andrew Robathan (Blaby) : I welcome the fact that the right hon. Lady has said that there may be a statement on BSE next week, but can she find time for a full-blown debate on agriculture, as previously requested? There was a short debate on the rural economy yesterday, but no sooner had the Minister spoken than he resigned.  [Interruption.]
 Mr. Andrew Rowe  (Faversham and Mid-Kent) : The Leader of the House will recall that, during the general election campaign, one of Labour's claims was that the election was partly a question of trust. Given the widespread disappointment in the country that the word "trust" has been interpreted as meaning either blind trusts in favour of some Ministers or offshore trusts in favour of others, may we have a debate next week to establish exactly what "trust" now means to new Labour?
7.  Mr. Rowe : What plans he has to develop peer education schemes in schools. [18752]
 Mr. Rowe : Does the Minister recognise that there is considerable excitement about the introduction of the millennium volunteers scheme? Many of us who have been campaigning for such a scheme for many years are anxious that it should not be frittered away or lose its potential. Does she agree that, within the possibilities open to millennium volunteers, the expansion of peer education would be an extremely fruitful course?
 Mr. Smith : The hon. Gentleman is right to draw attention to the particular needs of rural areas. Those are being addressed by partnerships in each area, which match opportunities that will be made available locally to the needs of local participants, in conjunction with local business. We have negotiated at a national level substantial discounts through transport operators such as National Express and Stagecoach. The Rural Development Commission is working with local authorities to see how the new deal can extend transport availability in rural areas.
 Mr. Smith : That is another aspect which sets the new deal apart from schemes that went before. Quality training is a part of every option of the new deal because it is essential, not merely to rebuild the motivation and self-esteem of so many of the young unemployed, but to provide the means to help them get jobs and stay in jobs. I wish to place on record our thanks for the work of the Northern Ireland task force in developing the new deal there.
 Mr. Smith : The hon. Gentleman is wrong. We have new deal programmes not only for those in receipt of jobseeker' s allowance but for people who are disabled or have suffered long-term sickness—all from the extra £195 million, which the Chancellor made available from the windfall levy in the Budget.
 Mr. Andrew Smith : The involvement of small businesses is critical to the success of the new deal. 1178
 Mr. Smith : That is a good idea and it is precisely that sort of local marketing—to which I referred—that will be taking place in the new year. We are seeing a growing recognition that the division and corrosion of our communities that are caused by youth unemployment will be solved only through partnership efforts that bring everyone together—local communities, local authorities and local businesses. The level of commitment that we are now seeing shows that they recognise the benefits to business both of getting young people in touch with the world of work and of their being able to enjoy its opportunities and face the responsibilities that go with it. The new deal is good news for businesses as it helps their recruitment effort at a time of growing skill shortages by equipping people and training them to get a job and stay in it.
 Mr. Smith : The truth of the matter is that now is exactly the right time to introduce a programme such as the new deal, because of the level of unfilled vacancies across the country—320,000 at the last count. That is whole point of the new deal: it can equip young people
 1179
 Mr. Smith : Yes, indeed. My right hon. Friend is entirely right. I met the head of the Basic Skills Agency this morning precisely to ensure that the monitoring and quality assurance of training under all the new deal options ensures that the training given is of the highest standard. I congratulate my right hon. Friend on the work that he, too, is doing to encourage small firms to sign up to the new deal and recruit the young unemployed; indeed, such work is an important opportunity and the responsibility of all right hon. and hon. Members. I referred earlier to the importance of partnership in getting the young unemployed back to work; we all have a task to perform in our own communities to help to get businesses on board and open up the opportunities that the young unemployed need.
 Mr. Smith : Yes; the new deal will bring new hope and opportunity to my hon. Friend's constituents, as it will to others. The crucial importance of the gateway in the new deal programme is that it provides for young people a period of counselling, advice, assessment and the chance to try out subsequent options before choosing what they will go on to do. They will have a personal adviser who will help them not simply during the gateway period but
 1166
 The Minister for Employment, Welfare to Work and Disability Rights (Mr. Andrew Smith) : All young people will have a choice of options in the new deal, although there will not in every case be a choice of every option. For example, those who are already well qualified may not be eligible for the full-time education and training option. Most participants will stay on one option, but where it clearly meets a young person's needs, people will be able to move to a second option. Although most people are likely to spend less than a year in the programme, the maximum period will be 16 months, and longer if we take account of the follow-through support for those who need it at the end of the option.
 Mr. Andrew Stunell  (Hazel Grove) : I thank the Leader of the House for what she said about a statement on Kyoto, and urge her to go further and to impress on Ministers the need for a debate in Government time on climate change. That issue concerns members of all parties— [Interruption.]
 Mr. Bill O'Brien : There is no doubt that Labour local education authorities will see that the money goes to education. There are still several large metropolitan authorities where there is a discrepancy in the amount allocated per student for education, particularly in the SIGOMA group—the Special Interest Group of Metropolitan Authorities. Will my right hon. Friend quickly examine that situation with a view to levelling up the imbalance that exists because of the way the formula applies to some education authorities?
 Mr. Clifford Forsythe  (South Antrim) : We on the Ulster Unionist party Bench give a warm welcome to the Minister's announcement today, and I think that all hon. Members representing Northern Ireland will do the same. We have particularly suffered from quangos, and we look forward to being able to ask questions about those bodies. Will the Anglo-Irish Secretariat be included in the bodies about which we can ask questions?
 Mr. Dafis : May I press the Minister a little further? As Church of England and Roman Catholic schools are integrated in the public sector, should not similar provision be made for Muslim schools and for other schools with alternative curricula, such as the Rudolf Steiner schools? Would the Minister be willing to meet representatives of the Third Sector Schools Alliance to explore this possibility, and to explain what the obstacles to their entry to the public sector are? Is it not wrong that schools should be obliged to stay in the private or voluntary sector when they would like to be integrated with the public sector?
 Mr. Dale Campbell-Savours  (Workington) : I can tell my right hon. Friend that when I used to ask the same sort of question of Tory Ministers, all my answers were always blocked. It is clear that the regime will change, and this is a triumph of common sense over the secret state, which has been a burden on the British people for far too long. It will transform the relationship between the individual and the state.
 Mr. David Watts (St. Helens, North) : Is my right hon. Friend is aware of the damning report produced by the National Audit Office on the performance of Ofwat and, if she is, given the high cost of water in the United Kingdom and the poor performance of water companies, will she make time available in the House to discuss that important issue?
 Mr. Blunkett : I was not sure whether the right hon. Gentleman was in favour or against those councils raising the money to protect education and essential services. They will certainly make a choice at local level to apply resources to the Government's and the people's priority, which is to ensure that resources are given to schools to support their aim to raise standards. That is our policy.
 Mr. Blunkett : My letter to the leaders of councils said that after 18 years of Conservative Government there would be difficulties in matching all the priorities and demands at local level. My hon. Friend the Minister for Local Government and Housing, who is present in the Chamber, is not only sympathetic but has managed with my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Health—whose cold I appear to have caught—to gain the provision of ring-fenced community care funding for the coming year, for an extra 12 months. That will help greatly to deal with the problem, which I accept exists, of matching demand and ensuring that we protect social services and the most vulnerable while at the same time matching the top priority of investing in standards in education.
 Mr. Blunkett : I and my right hon. and hon. Friends in the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions accept that further work is required on ensuring that resources reach those parts of the country and those authorities that are in greatest need. That is why the Deputy Prime Minister announced changes a couple of weeks ago that will start the process of achieving greater equity and fairness across the country, including provision for nursery children on the basis of those funded rather than on the notional numbers in the authority—and, of course, on the actual rather than the notional capital debt that had accrued before 1990. There is still room for improvement, but we are taking those essential steps to ensure that authorities can apply fairly the resources made available to ensure that we have equal standards across Britain.
 Mr. Blunkett : I am always in favour of Conservative authorities following Government policy, and passing on the 5.9 per cent. increase in standard spending assessment allocated to Gloucestershire. I hope that Gloucestershire county council, with the support of all three main political parties, will apply itself to the provision of nursery education, which it has neglected over the years.
 Mr. Blunkett : I have written to the leaders of all local authorities with responsibility for education to emphasise that the £1,017 million additional funding for next year should be applied directly for the benefit of children in our schools so that the average 5.7 per cent. increase can be applied directly to raising standards.
 The Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Mr. David Blunkett) : In our White Paper, we spelled out a series of measures that would raise standards and achieve our literacy and numeracy targets, including the development of the standards fund, which we have now published, and the 200 literacy co-ordinators across the country. Last week, we published the School Standards and Framework Bill, which laid out our plans for education action zones, through which we can target additional help, pilot best practice and draw together the whole community to ensure that every child in every school gets a decent education, wherever they live.
 Mr. Blunkett : I agree entirely. We have a bigger gap between success and failure than any other country in the developed world. Spreading best practice, developing quality leadership and headship in schools and ensuring that teachers have the professional development and in-service training necessary to do their jobs are all part of the agenda for transforming education in this country.
 Mr. Blunkett : In the spirit of Christmas magnanimity, I congratulate the hon. Lady on her return to the House. I am delighted that she has raised that question, because it offers us support in sorting out the mess that results when children are excluded from their local schools because of the selective process implemented in Bromley, with school knocking out school. Getting admissions policy right, together with lifting standards in all schools for all children, will be a key part in the process of making sense of the nonsense that we inherited.
 Mr. Blunkett : I shall, within a matter of weeks, publish the detailed criteria for local communities, schools and education authorities to respond positively and in an innovatory fashion to the request to them to consider how they can use the zones to improve education in urban and rural areas. We shall of course spell out the detailed terms of reference. I hope that people will think imaginatively about how to tackle the long-standing under-achievement that has regrettably blighted the lives of some children in some parts of our country.
 Mr. Blunkett : We are reducing by a third the productivity improvements—or cuts, as they were
 1168
4.  Mr. Hinchliffe : What steps he is taking to improve provision for pupils with special needs. [18749]
 Mr. Hinchliffe : I welcome the initiatives set out in the Green Paper, and other steps that the Government have taken, but may I draw my hon. Friend's attention to the specific difficulties facing children in care who attend mainstream education but also have special educational needs, and whose attendance record is often poor?
 Mr. David Ruffley (Bury St. Edmunds) : Does the Minister believe that the Minister without Portfolio, the hon. Member for Hartlepool (Mr. Mandelson), had something to do with the disgraceful leak of the contents of the White Paper earlier this week to the BBC? Will he confirm that those conducting the leak inquiry will seek personal interviews with the Minister without Portfolio?
 Mr. Trimble : I thank the hon. Gentleman. His phrase is quite right; the provisions in clause 5 are a gift to terrorists. The amendment would limit the damage. I acknowledge the arguments in favour of audio recording. We felt on balance in previous years, however, that even though there was an advantage to audio recording the disadvantage that I have mentioned outweighed the advantage. The amendment would prevent the disadvantages that would flow from audio recording.
 Mr. Trimble : Amendments Nos. 7 and 8 are consequential on new clause 3, but amendment No. 5 deals with a separate issue that is quite important. 1222
 Mr. Trimble : I shall try to be brief. I am afraid that I think the Minister made rather a meal of his response, especially in what he said at the beginning about the Committee. He knows that the Ulster Unionists were going to table amendments, and he knows that, in Committee, my hon. Friend the Member for Fermanagh and South Tyrone (Mr. Maginnis) clearly stated that he
 1220
 Mr. Trimble : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time.
 Mr. David Trimble  (Upper Bann) : I beg to move, That the clause be read a Second time. 1216 "The first and most obvious argument is that evidence of intercepted material is admissible to prove guilt in each of the countries which I have visited, and in every other country of which I have knowledge. The United Kingdom stands alone in excluding such material. Thus in the United States the use of intercept material in evidence is regarded as essential. In many instances, including high-profile cases involving the New York Mafia, convictions otherwise unobtainable have been secured by the use of intercept material. I put to officers of the FBI the suggestion that they were having second thoughts about the use of intercept material. I could find no support for this suggestion. In France I was told that intercept material has proved very valuable in terrorist cases. Thus, some 80 per cent. of the evidence against those suspected of involvement in the 1995 bombings is derived from intercept. Similarly, in Australia interception is regarded as an 'extremely valuable aid to criminal prosecution' …664 prosecutions for offences ranging from murder to serious fraud were based on intercepted material, nearly 500 of those prosecutions being for drug offences. Convictions were obtained in 87 per cent. of the cases. Often, when presented with the evidence of an intercept, the defendant pleads guilty." "The United Kingdom stands alone in excluding such material." 1217
 Mr. Trimble : I shall try to respond to the debate briefly. Amendment No. 5 has been touched on, and we can exaggerate the abnormality of the situation with which we are dealing. In tabling the amendment, I recognised, as has the Minister, that we are attempting to balance advantages and disadvantages with regard to a course of action. There are some advantages in the course that the Government are taking, but there are also disadvantages. The amendment tries to steer between them to achieve the best balance. 1230
 Mr. Trimble : Yes, indeed. Obviously, recordings can also protect the police.
 Mr. Trimble : The "Spotlight" programme.
 Mr. Trimble : The amendments concern the certifying out of scheduled offences. The effect of the legislation is to enable certain offences to be certified out. The point of the amendments is to allow us to ask the Minister to give us the detailed reasons why it is now proposed to certify out offences—making or possessing a petrol bomb; throwing or using a petrol bomb; possessing a firearm
 1233
 Mr. Trimble : These were probing amendments to try to elicit an explanation. The Minister gave us a theoretical explanation, not a practical one. I endorse the points of the hon. and learned Member for North Down (Mr. McCartney). I wanted to know from the Minister whether, in the circumstances in Northern Ireland, there were any instances of such offences that could genuinely be described as non-terrorist. My limited knowledge suggests that all such cases are paramilitary or paramilitary related. That is the practical reality as I understand it in Northern Ireland. Of course, one can construct theoretical situations such as the example that the Minister gave about lighter fuel. I wanted a practical explanation, and I am sorry that I did not get one.
 Mr. Trimble : Is the Minister seriously suggesting that there are cases involving explosions and firearms in which there is no terrorist involvement?
 Mr. Trimble : Having listened to the Minister, my astonishment at the Government's position is, if anything, greater than it was before. This is 1997. After tonight, this House will not debate the issue again until June 1999. We are to be deprived of the debate that would have taken place in June 1998, which is nearly six months away.
 Mr. Trimble : That answer is wholly inadequate. The renewal debates take place against the background of a report by someone who looks into the operation of the legislation during the year. During the passage of this Bill, we have not considered the detailed operation of the legislation against the background of such an expert report. It is a different sort of debate.
 Mr. Trimble : I beg to move amendment No. 2, in page 2, leave out lines 1 and 2.
 Mr. Trimble indicated assent.
 Mr. Trimble : I beg to move amendment No. 1, in page 1, leave out lines 7 and 8.
 Mr. Willetts : The Minister has just made it clear that tuition fees are a tax on higher education to pay for further education, as people had feared. How does he expect to run reliable means tests on students who come from outside Britain, and how much it will cost to do so?
 Mr. David Winnick  (Walsall, North) : On 14 July, I raised on a point of order a matter that the press was reporting at the time. It was being said that the BBC was intending to end the Tuesday-to-Saturday item on Radio 4, "Yesterday in Parliament". On that occasion, my protest was supported by hon. Members on both sides of the House. Madam Speaker informed the House that she would write to the director-general of the BBC, which she did. I have seen the reply that was sent to her. I have also seen the second letter that she wrote, telling the chairman of the BBC that she was not satisfied—and that Members of Parliament were not satisfied—with the reason given for ending "Yesterday in Parliament". 1256 "The BBC shall broadcast an impartial account day by day of the proceedings of Parliament." 1257 The Times 1258
 Mr. Winnick : Is it not interesting that when the BBC says that it is observing the agreement it always cites "Today in Parliament" in justification? However
 1262
 Mr. Dennis Skinner (Bolsover) : Is my right hon. Friend aware that, despite all the criticism that he has received over the past few months about delay, many Labour Members now realise that his statement has been worth waiting for? The headline should be "Labour recaptures the high ground".
 Mr. Dennis Skinner (Bolsover) : And all because the lady loves Milk Tray.
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : If I had to rely on the hon. Gentleman, I would be dead.
 Mr. Derek Foster  (Bishop Auckland) : Does my right hon. Friend share my view that this is the most important piece of unfinished business since the disgraceful way in which the Conservative party dealt with the Scott report? I congratulate him on the scythe that he has taken to the deep undergrowth of the culture of secrecy in government. He is today lighting a fire that will ultimately cleanse the democratic process and begin to restore the trust between Government and people.
 Mr. Derek Foster : My right hon. Friend is to be congratulated on the extent to which the big global players have signed up to support the new deal, but he will be aware that in most of our constituencies—certainly in some rural areas or in inner-city areas—it will be crucial to get large numbers of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Minister has given us some good news today, but my impression is that a great deal of work still needs to be done before we can be confident that sufficient numbers will be achieved. Will he ensure that the quality of training in that option is as high as it must be to deliver what young people need and deserve?
 Mr. Derek Wyatt  (Sittingbourne and Sheppey) : As a former publisher and director of William Heinemann, which published "Spycatcher", it is music to my ears to hear the legislation outlined today. I have a practical question: given that the Minister's Department has one webcaster, but that there are no others in the civil service, how are we to get information from the civil service? What plans are there to train people and improve internet access, which is a matter of concern at the moment?
 Mr. Desmond Swayne  (New Forest, West) : Last night, when the heavies had finished duffing up my hon. Friend the Member for North Shropshire (Mr. Paterson) in the Division Lobby, the Prime Minister made a tough decision not to join his beleaguered colleagues on the Front Bench but instead to go to yet another glitzy soirée at Downing street. Can the right hon. Lady afford us time
 1207
 Mr. Dominic Grieve  (Beaconsfield) : Does my hon. Friend agree that pragmatism in the approach to the problem is the key? Does he agree that what causes anxiety to Conservative Members is the fact that whereas the Government have embarked on a pragmatic policy, even to the point of being willing to speak to Sinn Fein today—even if we have anxieties about that, we can still respect that decision— they are not adopting a pragmatic policy on internment? They seemed to make up their mind about it some time ago, and are not applying their mind to the current realities in Northern Ireland.
 Mr. Don Foster : I welcome the Minister's response and the emphasis that he rightly places on raising literacy standards across the board. Therefore, is it not frankly 1171
 Mr. Edward Garnier  (Harborough) : Had the policy just announced been in force in October, would the minutes of the meeting held by the Prime Minister with representatives of formula one at No. 10 Downing street—on 18 October, I believe—have been disclosed as a matter of course?
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : Good.
 Mr. Eric Forth  (Bromley and Chislehurst) : May we please have an urgent debate on the rights of Members of Parliament, especially when on the premises of the Palace of Westminster? Specifically, could that debate centre on the rights of all Members when voting together in the same Lobby—especially when the Conservatives are supporting the Government for supporting the Conservatives, as happened last night—and on whether, in such cases, all Members will be completely free to approach Ministers, particularly the Prime Minister, without being molested?
 Mr. Gerald Bermingham (St. Helens, South) : Will my right hon. Friend consider, perhaps in Government time and in the not-too-distant future, a short debate on a matter of which I have had personal experience: the success of treatment carried out in the national health service? We do not seem to have any intelligence unit to record that treatment, its results and the successes of the service; nor do we seem to have any means of recording best practice so that best practice initiated in one area can be disseminated to other areas. That may be a useful adjunct for us to debate.
 Mr. Steinberg : My hon. Friend probably knows that I oppose the introduction of tuition fees. I am wise enough to know that my opposition alone will not stop them coming in, but can he give a guarantee that if they are to be levied they will go solely to higher and further education? If they go into the Exchequer generally, they will be no more than a tax on education.
 Mr. Sutcliffe : Should not many local education authorities be congratulated on their work in developing mentoring schemes among students in schools, because of the pressures that many children face? Are not they best placed to demonstrate best practice?
 Mr. Gordon Marsden : I welcome the Minister's statement on the National Year of Reading, and I urge him to give particular attention to co-ordinating adult literacy responses with those of children. That is particularly important in areas such as mine where not only the children but the parents in council estates need to be brought up to literacy standards. When we had a consultation exercise on the White Paper recently, that was one of the strongest points that came across. Will he take that into account?
 Mr. Gordon Prentice  (Pendle) : I add my congratulations to my right hon. Friend on his groundbreaking statement. I have a specific question about public money going to private individuals for some alleged public benefit. Will individuals who receive public money to allow access to land under the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food agricultural schemes for environmentally sensitive areas, and landowners who receive conditional exemption from inheritance tax for allowing people on to land, but are not required to publicise that access, be covered by the White Paper?
 Mr. Hugh Bayley  (City of York) : May I thank my right hon. Friend for giving the House notice that European Standing Committee A will be considering the draft chocolate directive? She will be aware that the European Commission proposed a good compromise which did not discriminate against British chocolate or continental chocolate, but that the European Parliament proposed some quite extraordinary amendments backing up the commercial interests of some European chocolate manufacturers—those of France, Belgium and Germany—against those of others, including ourselves, the Irish, the Portuguese and those in Scandinavia.
 Mr. Ian Bruce  (South Dorset) : We in the House all know that we are entitled to ask questions, and that the questions must have answers. However, it is the quality of the answers that we are worried about. We were all sympathetic to the right hon. Gentleman until he answered my hon. Friend the Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Ruffley) and clearly did not intend to reveal the information that he said was available. 1192
 Mr. Ian Bruce : I am sure that the Minister is well aware that many of the schemes that have been tried in the past, both here and overseas, have had the problem of substitution—where employers who were going to take someone on anyway take on someone on a subsidy. As it is to be a six-month scheme starting in April, will the Minister take care to ensure that the tourism industry does not simply decide to use the Government's money—the Treasury's money, the people's money—to subsidise people who would normally be taken on for a six-month period, giving them little in the way of training and thus doing away with all the jobs that would normally be taken by students who try to work during the summer so as to be able to afford to go to university?
 Mr. Jeremy Corbyn  (Islington, North) : Will there be a statement next week on the outcome of the Kyoto summit on world climate change? Will my right hon. Friend arrange for there to be a full debate early in the
 1200
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : In keeping with the principles of the White Paper and the importance of the proper release of Government information, will the Minister now tell us whether, in future leak inquiries, Ministers as appropriate will be interviewed—yes or no?
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : In view of the right hon. Lady's failure properly to answer my right hon. Friend the shadow Leader of the House, will she undertake to find time next week for the Paymaster General to make a statement about his intervention in the coal industry, which is likely to result in miners who are thrown out of work losing up to £10,000 each of their redundancy money?
 Mr. Bercow : Does the Minister agree that in formulating a literacy strategy an emphasis on traditional methods is important and welcome, and that there should therefore be no role whatever for the three left-wing academics who observe in a pamphlet that
 "within the psycho-semiotic framework, the shared reading lesson is viewed as an ideological construct where events are played out" "Children must learn to position themselves in three interlocking contexts"?
 Mr. Burnett : Sir Ron Dearing's recommendation that students should contribute towards their tuition fees has one important caveat: that the cash raised should be hypothecated to the higher education budget. Does the Minister agree?
8.  Mr. Burnett : How the collection of tuition fees is to be managed and by whom; and what estimate he has made of the cost.[18753]
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : Will the right to know extend to the real Government of Britain—the Commission of the European Union—as it is the master now and the Labour Government are the puppets?
 Mr. John Wilkinson  (Ruislip-Northwood) : As it is not only Yorkies that are threatened by the dictates of the European Union but the livelihoods of many of my constituents who work in duty-free shops at Heathrow and on airliners for British carriers, and many Members' constituents who work at airports, or for airlines or shipping companies throughout the country, will the right hon. Lady ensure that the appropriate Minister comes to the House to explain the Government's policy which, until now, has been one of total acquiescence in the job-destroying policy of the European Union?
 Mr. Maginnis : I thank my hon. Friend. They were named in that documentary, shown on "Newsnight", as leading members of the IRA's Army Council. They were invited into Downing street to placate the threat that they still pose, which is still recognised, from the IRA to society throughout the United Kingdom. 1244 1245
 Mr. Maginnis : The hon. Gentleman brings me succinctly back to the point I wanted to make. However we try to placate these people, their appetite is insatiable—nothing short of a united Ireland will placate them. The right hon. Member for Bridgwater said that if there were a settlement there would be splinter groups with which we should have to deal. It is much more serious than that. There is not an ounce of sincerity in Provisional Sinn Fein: the Armalite has not been put away. So when the bribes—the Danegeld—that have to be paid to keep these unreconstructed terrorists at the table of democracy run out, they will resort again immediately to violence. Then we shall have to decide how to deal with the godfathers.
 Mr. Ken Maginnis  (Fermanagh and South Tyrone) : It is appropriate to allude briefly to the situation that pertained today, when three unreconstructed terrorists—Adams, McGuinness and Ferris—were invited into the heart of democracy by the leading politician in the United Kingdom, our Prime Minister. Whether we oppose or support the Labour party, he is our Prime Minister, and representatives of our Government are sitting on the Treasury Bench. Today, they invited those people who were specifically named in a recent "Newsnight" programme as active members of the—
 Mr. Maginnis : I have some sympathy with that, but when do we stop testing? When do we decide that the product is fit for human consumption? Nothing has emanated from IRA-Sinn Fein to suggest that they can be seriously incorporated in the democratic process. Today was a humiliating today for British democracy. Surely people still remember Warrington, Enniskillen and Regent's park—the list is endless. 1246
 Mr. Maginnis : I am grateful to the Minister. I have one question for him. He has been part of the process that has made concession after concession to the IRA in the
 1251
 Mr. Maginnis   rose—
 Mr. Maginnis   rose—
 Mr. Laurence Robertson  (Tewkesbury) : Following the question asked by the hon. Member for Moray (Mrs. Ewing), may I urge that we have a full debate on the agriculture industry and on the beef situation in particular? I would not expect the right hon. Lady to be aware of this, but last night 400 farmers descended on a meat distribution depot in my constituency; they stopped lorries going this way and that, and are planning further disruptions. I am sure that no one wants to see such action, but, on the other hand, many people are very sympathetic to the farmers' case, especially as we have a beef export ban and further bans on meat, but no guarantee whatever of the quality and safety of meat coming from abroad.
 Mr. Robertson : I thank the right hon. Gentleman for that reply. I remind him that there is a difference between schools and education. As he has written to all local authorities, why did the Labour group on Gloucestershire county council vote just two weeks ago not to pass all the money on to schools? It was only because of the Conservative group that the motion to do so was carried.
9.  Mr. Laurence Robertson : What steps he is taking to ensure that the extra money allocated by the Government to local authorities is actually allocated to schools' budgets. [18754]
 Mr. Öpik : Are we to understand that the hon. Gentleman is trying to ensure that audio recordings do not become an additional weapon in the terrorists' armoury and that audio—and, more important, video—recording is used to protect the interests of prisoners as well as accuracy?
 Mr. Öpik : These are strange days: Sinn Fein at No. 10, talks between foes, hopes for a settlement from all sides, and above all, a Province in anticipation. How far we have come. The change is this: the suppression of violence is no longer the primary motive. The primary motive is now the promotion of a peaceful and lasting settlement. To that end, internment has never been effective and it never will be. "I think that everyone, including Conservative Members, would accept that in the 1970s the introduction of this measure was clumsy—ham-fisted, even—and ineffective … It probably had the opposite effect from that which was intended."—[ Official Report, Standing Committee A 1249
 Mr. Öpik : It seems to us that the Government's intention is to introduce, as we would all wish, an element of normalisation in the legal system in Northern Ireland. Certifying out is an attempt to make that process a bit more expeditious.
 Mr. Llew Smith  (Blaenau Gwent) : The Minister stated that our right to know would extend to public bodies and companies. Will he confirm that British Nuclear Fuels plc is one of the public bodies that will be covered by the
 1195
 Mr. Moss : So he has changed his mind.
 Mr. Malcolm Moss  (North-East Cambridgeshire) : Political direction.
 Mr. Fisher : I think that implicit in Madam Speaker's remarks about the difference between "Yesterday in Parliament" and "Today in Parliament" is her interpretation of the words, "the obligation to report". A report is a retrospective activity, and "Yesterday in Parliament" fulfils that spirit of retrospective reporting in the charter.
 The Minister for Arts (Mr. Mark Fisher) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Walsall, North (Mr. Winnick) on securing this debate. I am well aware of the considerable concern among hon. Members about the broadcast coverage of parliamentary proceedings, and I welcome this opportunity for some of those concerns to be aired. "shall transmit an impartial account day by day, prepared by professional reporters, of the proceedings in both Houses of Parliament". 1259 "you will note that there is serious concern amongst Members at the report that this programme is to be discontinued. I share this concern. 'Yesterday in Parliament' performs an invaluable function in bringing Parliament closer to the people. That is a proper function for a public service broadcasting organisation to perform and I hope that you can give me an assurance to pass on to the House that `Yesterday in Parliament' will not be affected by the programme changes that I understand are under consideration." "This causes me very great concern. 'The Week in Westminster' is a long established programme with a fine reputation for providing both an insight into the workings of Parliament and an opportunity for backbenchers to be heard. It attracts a regular attendance of over 500,000. If it were to be relegated to Thursday evening, not only would the audience be more than halved, but the whole character of the programme would change since it could no longer provide an overview by a leading political journalist of the week's activities." "all year round coverage of the work of MPs in 'The Week in Westminster' and 'in Committee', which are currently broadcast only when Parliament is sitting. This move is intended better to reflect the constituency work of Members as well as their duties at Westminster". "It is difficult to see that the transfer of 'The Week in Westminster' and its replacement by 'The Food Programme' could be regarded as anything but a down-grading of Parliamentary Coverage." 1260 "the BBC's important obligation to report Parliament comprehensively"— "with its need to remain sympathetic to listeners needs". "the Radio 4 audience drops by 350,000 when 'Yesterday in Parliament' begins and there is evidence of many listeners re-tuning to other stations at this point". "spurious. The drop appears to be part of a trend that for obvious reasons manifests itself during the early morning and is just as apparent when Parliament is in recess as when 'Yesterday in Parliament' is broadcast". "all radio networks lose some of their listeners as part of a national trend between 8·30 and 9, but…Radio 4 loses its audience share faster…in the 15 minutes from 8·30–8·45 audience share falls by 1·3 per cent. and falls by a further 0·9 per cent. by 8·45–9·00." "is likely to be significantly lower than on Saturday morning". "the whole character of the programme would change"— The House magazine "rose sharply at 6 am to 8 am to a peak of around 4·3 per cent. of the UK population over 15 (around 2 million) and then drops sharply to about 1·5 per cent. (about 730,000) where it stays for most of the morning. So the audience is dropping just as sharply during the "Today" programme at 8·10 and 8·30, and the "Start The Week" type programmes at 9·05 as it is during "Yesterday in Parliament". What is more on Monday morning, when there is usually a book reading in the same slot, the decline in audience is exactly the same. So let's kill the myth that it is somehow politics that makes people turn away or retune". "the typical listener found the Parliamentary reports far too demanding at that time in the morning". "little to allay my reservations about the changes you have in mind". 1261 "an important part of the consultative process." "all our liberties depend on the maintenance of Parliamentary democracy",
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. and learned Gentleman keeps using the words, "you" and "your". The Chair is not responsible for the matter.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : With this, it will be convenient to discuss the following amendments: No. 3, in page 2, leave out line 3.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. We have not yet got to amendment No. 5. We are only debating it with new clause 3 at this stage, so the hon. Gentleman does not need to withdraw it.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : With this, it will be convenient to discuss the following amendments: No. 5, in clause 5, page 2, line 38, at end insert—
 (2A) Subject to subsection (2B) a recording or a copy of a recording made under subsection (1)(b) shall not be made available to any person. (2B) A judge conducting the trial of a scheduled offence may require the production to him alone of copies of all or any of the interviews made under this section with the accused in connection with the subject matter of the trial.'. 'In section 60(5), "or 54".'.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : Order. Perhaps I can help the hon. Member. We are discussing a
 1218
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael J. Martin) : With permission, I shall put together the motions relating to delegated legislation.
15.  Mr. Nicholas Winterton : If he will make a statement on the Government's policy on voluntary-aided and denominational schools.[18761]
 Mr. Winterton : Does the Minister accept that voluntary schools and denominational schools have for many decades served as the leaven in the dough to raise educational standards and the standards of pastoral care provided by our education service, and that the resources provided by the Churches in this country to supplement the public purse have been beneficial to every child in every school in the country? Will he assure me that denominational schools are safe in the Labour Government's hands?
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : My hon. Friend and I are good friends, because I am a Conservative and Unionist, and I support the Unionist cause in Northern Ireland. Does my hon. Friend share my view that if Mr. Adams, Mr. McGuinness and Mr. Ferris do not get their way, they will return to violence? Would he therefore agree that internment should remain part of our primary legislation?
 Mr. Hawkins : When the Minister is looking at the different problems, will she recognise that a lot of head teachers—some of whom I was talking to recently—who have a proud record of helping special needs and statemented children are concerned about the policy that the Government are encouraging of inclusion in every single school? I was at one school last week where
 1170
 Mr. Nick Hawkins  (Surrey Heath) : May we have an early debate on the role in the House, and in the general performance of his duties, of the Minister without Portfolio? We are increasingly seeing that his influence on his colleagues—such as his undermining of the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster—is making it clear that he is the modern Rasputin of politics.
 Mr. Nigel Evans (Ribble Valley) : I shall try to be in order this time, Madam Speaker.
 Mr. Nigel Evans  (Ribble Valley) : I do not think that my hon. Friend the Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Ruffley) got a response to his question, so I will give it another go. Can the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster state whether the Minister without Portfolio will be questioned about any involvement that he may have had with the leak? When will he be questioned? If the right hon. Gentleman will not answer those questions, this debate will be about not our right to know, but our right not to know.
 Mr. Norman Baker  (Lewes) : I welcome the statement. Is the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster aware that many people, both inside and outside the House, have waited years for such a proposal? Is not it a breath of fresh air, compared with the suffocating secrecy under the previous Government?
 Mr. Owen Paterson  (North Shropshire) : During the general election campaign, not one Labour candidate in Shropshire told the electors of Shropshire that, in the event of a Labour Government coming to power, they would impose a local government settlement such as the one that was announced last week. It has brought £9.7 million in cuts and a 17 per cent. increase in council tax. The county is in a state of shock. May we please have a debate next week on that huge betrayal?
 Mr. Paterson : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. I wish to clear my name. I have been in the House for only six months, but I am accustomed to going up to senior members of my party, including my right hon. Friend the Member for Richmond, Yorks (Mr. Hague), in the Lobbies, asking them questions and getting friendly answers. Last night was my first opportunity to ask the Prime Minister a question on equal terms in the Lobby—I understand that we are all equal Members of the House. 1210
 Mr. Owen Paterson  (North Shropshire)   rose—
 Mr. Paul Burstow  (Sutton and Cheam) : When can we have a debate on the performance of the privatised rail industry and especially the train operating companies, not least Connex South Central, which services my constituency and has recently witnessed a 138 per cent. increase in complaints about its cancellation of services, overcrowded trains and generally inadequate investment in rolling stock? When can we have a debate so that we may discover the Government's plans for our rail industry and how they intend to make a difference to it?
 Mr. Paul Flynn  (Newport, West) : When may we have a debate on procedures in the House? Following the statement by the shadow Leader of the House, I went to the Table Office and tabled a question asking what representations had been received by the Government on the possible link between the minimum wage and job numbers. That question was accepted without demur by the Table Office, but they expressed some bewilderment at the statement made a short while ago in the Chamber. Of course, questions that are hypothetical are not allowed
 1203
 Mr. Paul Flynn  (Newport, West) : Does my right hon. Friend recall that, following an incident in my constituency in which a lorry carrying munitions caught fire, the previous Government refused to answer questions, on the ground of confidentiality, but that when the identical questions were tabled in the Congress of the United States, the information was given that the lorry was carrying cluster bombs and projectile missiles and was a considerable risk to my constituents?
 Mr. Keetch : The Liberal Democrats welcome the new deal, although, as the Government know, we would fund it differently. What will the Minister say to people who will not qualify for the new deal because they take national insurance credits instead of, for example, jobseeker's allowance, or are on invalidity benefit? Is it not true that, for such young people, the new deal is no deal? What will the Government do about them?
 Mr. Tyler : Can the Leader of the House give us an assurance that the new, draconian standing orders of the parliamentary Labour party will not be allowed to interfere with the proper judgment of Members.
 Mr. Paul Tyler  (North Cornwall) : The right hon. Lady is rightly protective of the rights and privileges of the House and its Members. Does she agree that any threat to those rights and privileges, in particular any attempt to bully Members and any attempt to exert improper influence over Members of the House—I think that that is the definition that the Joint Committee on Privileges is now examining—should be resisted? The hon. Member for Brent, East (Mr. Livingstone) reported to the House that he had to change his view on a specific piece of legislation owing to the pressure exerted on him by the standing orders of the Labour party. Can the Leader of the House give us an explicit assurance that members of the Labour party who voted with the Liberal Democrats last night against a Conservative proposal will not be subjected to undue pressure of that sort, with their livelihoods being threatened if they cease to be Members?
 Mr. Paul Tyler  (North Cornwall) : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker. Is it not conventional, when a Member intends to refer to another Member in such terms, that she should give the latter notice of her intention?
 Mr. Peter Bradley  (The Wrekin) : Does my right hon. Friend acknowledge that this historic statement will be as welcome outside the House as it is to Labour Members, although judging by the grinning and grumbling of the Opposition, it is clear that they have problems with accountable and open government and public service? On the question of expedition, will my right hon. Friend set time limits within which organisations must respond to requests for information? Will he also illustrate, for the
 1190
 Mr. Peter Viggers (Gosport) : What is all this going to cost and who is going to pay?
 Mr. Viggers : Is the Secretary of State aware that this morning I read the brochure "Investing in Young People: A Strategy for the Education and Training of 16 to 18 year-olds" which he sent me? Are not the Government rich in promises but poor in performance? The funding of sixth-form colleges will fall in real terms in each of the next three years because of the productivity and efficiency improvements expected of them.
3.  Mr. Rhodri Morgan : If he will list the number of after-school child care places to be provided in  (a) (b) (c)
 Mr. Morgan : I thank the Minister for that reply. Is not the affordability of good quality child care essential to the success of any welfare-to-work programme? Will he confirm that research by the equal opportunities organisation in Wales, Chwarae Teg, shows that so far child care has reached only the children of parents with professional qualifications? So far—if I may refer briefly to last night's events—it has not yet reached the classic low-paid lone parent.
 Mr. Rhodri Morgan  (Cardiff, West) : I congratulate the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster on the publication of this strong White Paper—the product, perhaps, of a successful marriage of Clark's shoes and Cardinal Wolsey's socks. The new commissioner's power of enforcement is unprecedented in the way in which we
 1194
6.  Mr. Allan : If students whose maintenance grants are to be phased out in 1998–99 will be eligible for the increased student loans that students in 1999 and 2000 are eligible to receive. [18751]
 Mr. Allan : Does the Minister share my fear that those people who are thinking of doing three or four-year undergraduate teacher training courses will be deterred by his proposals for student finance, as they know that the salaries that they will later earn as primary school teachers will be high enough for them to pay back the loan, but do not command the sort of graduate premiums that he uses to justify his proposals?
 Mr. Richard Shepherd  (Aldridge-Brownhills) : Like others, I welcome the statement. If legislation follows, with the breadth and scope that the right hon. Gentleman described, it will emancipate many individuals, as well as the press itself and Her Majesty's loyal Opposition.
 Mr. Richard Shepherd  (Aldridge-Brownhills) : This is the third time in just over six months that the Government are imposing a guillotine motion. Does the right hon. Lady not appreciate that the European Communities (Amendment) Bill gives more powers to the European Parliament, extends the competencies of the European Union, extends qualified majority voting, reinforces citizenship and dwells on economic and monetary union? It is clearly a profound constitutional matter for the House, and to curtail debate by a guillotine, which is the most outrageous expression of Executive power, is wholly inappropriate.
 Mr. Robert Maclennan  (Caithness, Sutherland and Easter Ross) : Is the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster aware that my right hon. and hon. Friends broadly welcome this fulfilment of a commitment made in agreement with my party prior to the election, to introduce a comprehensive, wide-ranging and enforceable freedom
 1187
 Mr. Robert McCartney  (North Down) : Does the Minister accept that the general view in Northern Ireland is that the measures in the Bill are confidence-building measures aimed at those whose compliance the Government seek, namely the terrorists? Would not the confidence of the ordinary decent citizen be built up if the new clause could serve as another weapon in the armoury of those who are attempting to enforce law and order? Would that not build up the confidence of the vast majority of peaceable citizens in both communities?
 Mr. McCartney : In principle and in appropriate circumstances, everyone should have the quickest access to legal advice. Again, however, we must balance whether or not prompt and vigorous—although not unlawful or not objectionable—interrogation methods are necessary to obtain information that might prevent horrendous crimes from occurring. 1229
 Mr. Robert McCartney : In connection with the proposed amendment, may I first point out that although I sought from the Minister some indication of the reasons for the Chief Constable's change of heart about audio evidence, that was not necessarily done for the purpose of supporting the amendment. 1228
 Mr. Robert McCartney : I agree that there are a number of abnormalities, but does the hon. Gentleman agree that the most fundamental abnormality is the existence of terrorist organisations that, over a period, have murdered more than 3,000 human beings, destroyed enormous amounts of property and mutilated the persons of literally thousands of people? That is the fundamental assault on society and everything it stands for which has given rise to the abnormalities of which the hon. Gentleman so eloquently speaks.
 Mr. Robert McCartney : Can the Minister explain why the Chief Constable is now said to be in favour of audio recordings being admitted as evidence—and why he has apparently suggested that that will not prejudice the investigations or hamper the collection of evidence—when that did not appear to be the case on previous occasions when the subject was considered? What has brought about that tremendous metamorphosis in police thinking?  [Interruption.]
 Mr. McCartney : Certainly a strong case can be made that only in exceptional circumstances should persons who are not themselves suspected of committing a crime be arrested and subjected to interrogation for the purpose of implicating others. However, there may be circumstances known to the police—would have to be left to their discretion—re such measures may be justified if they would save lives, prevent a horrendous crime or, in other unspecified ways, protect the community. It is very easy to make specific judgments and to ask for a generalised approval of a principle which, in practice, may cost people their lives and cause massive destruction.
 Mr. McCartney : I am sorry, I accept that entirely.
 Mr. Robert McCartney : While I can fully appreciate your anxiety to normalise as far as possible the trial of various criminal offences in Northern Ireland, you will be aware that there is at least a feeling among many people in Northern Ireland that the proposals are part of a process of confidence building. 1235
 Mr. McCartney : I take that point, but I would rather confine our debate to events in this House, because this House, then as now, is the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland—a position that Mr. Haughey has never at any time occupied, although he had aspirations to do so. 1243
 Mr. McCartney : That is true, up to a point, but, when the agreement was passed, I vividly recall the right hon. Gentleman telling us in the Northern Ireland assembly that, when we all got to grips with it and understood it—as if we were people of limited intelligence— we would fully appreciate how peace, stability and reconciliation would be the fruits of that great agreement. However, I have read today's edition of The Daily Telegraph, 1242
 Mr. Robert McCartney : I can understand to some degree the feelings of the right hon. Member for Bridgwater (Mr. King) about the fact that there was no consultation between the Government and the Opposition on the presentation of the Bill, but surely he, more than anyone else, realises that the Anglo-Irish Agreement, in which he was heavily involved, is the prime example of the way in which people are left feeling aggrieved if they have not been consulted. With the greatest respect, I say to the right hon. Gentleman that it does not lie in his mouth to complain about the absence of consultation.
 Mr. Beggs : We welcome the new deal and the new opportunities that will be afforded to those young people who have hitherto been unemployed. What emphasis will be put on ensuring that young people gain qualifications through the new deal?
 Mr. Seamus Mallon  (Newry and Armagh) : I wish to make three brief points. The first relates to the codes of practice. I seek an assurance from the Minister that the codes of practice that the Secretary of State is required to produce, however they are decided, will be implemented speedily. Silent video recording has been agreed and adjudicated on, but after some considerable time it has still not been implemented. 1226
 Mr. Mallon : I thank the hon. and learned Gentleman for making that point, and I do not dispute with him the obscene abnormality of violence and what it has done to everyone living in the north of Ireland. That is incontestable. What is open to question, however, is the capacity of any abnormal system to end that state of affairs. 1227
 Mr. Mallon : The hon. and learned Gentleman has long experience of practising in the courts in the north of Ireland. I have long experience of the other side of the coin in relation to this legislation. Is it ever right under law to arrest people under emergency legislation— ally at six o'clock in the morning— e them to a holding centre, question them and keep them there, when those who are arresting and questioning them know that there is no suspicion attached to them? Are not the persons arrested losing their freedom and human rights in the search for information, perhaps about someone who the police know is guilty, or about an incident? The figures for the EPA and the PTA down the years clearly show that that has been the case. Surely that is wrong, and we should not allow it to happen again. The amendment would do just that.
 Mr. Mallon : I should like to restate my position, as I did on Second Reading and in Committee. 1238
 Mr. Mallon : It is with some trepidation that I speak on the matter. I listened carefully to the hon. Member for Upper Bann (Mr. Trimble), the hon. and learned Member for North Down (Mr. McCartney), and the Minister, but I am still slightly confused. I am not quite sure whether that reflects on the powers of persuasion of those three gentlemen or on my powers of understanding.
The hon. and learned Member for North Down asked for statistics. I understand that the vast majority of work in the Attorney-General's office, some 85 per cent., involves certifying out. I commend the Minister for moving gradually towards having all cases dealt with through the normal process of law. I do not think that the proposals go far enough. Other instances could have been included. I do not want to confuse myself or the issue any further by attempting to mention them, but I believe that this is an opportunity for at least some movement. I commend the Minister for having taken it.
 Mr. Mallon : With reference to the "cosseted" situation in which I and others spent more than a year trying to persuade people that the principle of consent in relation to any change of status for the north of Ireland is the only viable democratic approach, I want to assure the hon. Gentleman that there is nothing very cosseted about doing a week's work here and then heading off to spend another two days trying to convince people of the validity of that argument. I understand the hon. Gentleman's point; I, too, know how the prodigal son's brother felt—the more so given some of these antics—but surely every opportunity should be taken to put this case and to test these people out.
 Mr. Shaun Woodward  (Witney) : Will the Leader of the House find time early next week for the Minister for Public Health to make a statement on the ban on tobacco advertising in sport, given that she appears not just to have failed to follow, but to have deliberately broken, the 1996 Cabinet guidelines?
 Mr. Byers : Yes, the Government want a community approach to reading. The previous Government established four family literacy schemes—just four. We shall expand that programme and have nearly 500 family literacy schemes, as we recognise that that is a positive way to involve parents in developing their children's reading skills. It is a clear demonstration of the Government's commitment to getting the basics right and getting parents working with their children to ensure that they have the best possible start to their school life.
 Mr. Byers : The hon. Gentleman will have to wait for an announcement by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State in a few days, which will reveal clearly the priorities of the Government. We believe that testing at seven is appropriate, as it is important to judge relative progress and to make sure that individual children can move on and develop their reading, and their literacy skills in general. On the wider issue of priorities, the hon. Gentleman will be pleased when he hears my right hon. Friend's announcement within 10 days.
 Mr. Byers : My hon. Friend is absolutely right. Some 8 million adults are unable to read and write properly, and the National Year of Reading must treat them as a priority. We shall need to find new ways of engaging and motivating those adults. We are particularly pleased that popular television programmes such as "EastEnders" and "Brookside" have agreed to promote the National Year of Reading within their scripts. That is a positive way of engaging adults who otherwise would not be part of the National Year of Reading.
 The Minister for School Standards (Mr. Stephen Byers) : The aim of the National Year of Reading is to demonstrate to children the excitement, pleasure and enjoyment of reading. In addition, it will encourage adults to learn to read. The Government, along with the private sector, will be supporting those objectives in a variety of ways.
 Mr. Byers : I understand the concerns expressed by the hon. Gentleman. There is no dogmatic opposition to schools entering the maintained sector; all schools will be subject to the same criteria. In particular, they will have to meet the demands and requirements of the national curriculum. One of the difficulties experienced by the types of school mentioned by the hon. Gentleman has been their failure to meet the terms and requirements of the national curriculum.
 Mr. Byers : Thanks to the east coast main line, during one of my return visits to my constituency on Tyneside next summer I might stop off at Peterborough to visit
 1180
 Mr. Byers : I endorse the hon. Gentleman's comments about the valuable role that Church schools play. In the consultation exercise following the publication of the White Paper, "Excellence in schools", we were able to reflect on proposals made by the Church education
 1182
 Mr. Byers : A number of applications are before Ministers at the moment, including some from promoters from the Muslim sector. As I am the Minister who has to consider those applications, it would be wrong for me to make a statement this afternoon. I can say, however, that they will be judged on the criteria that we apply to all other applications.
 Mr. Byers : The Government welcome the part that voluntary schools, including voluntary-aided and denominational schools, play in the education service. Our new school framework will safeguard their ethos and will enable them, and all other schools, to raise standards and improve the quality of the education that they offer.
 Mr. Byers : Clearly there is a role for summer literacy schools for the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Bercow). Many of us on the Labour Benches who entered the House in 1992—I accept that he did not—find it very difficult to take lessons from the Conservatives on reading in our schools when the one programme that they ran to support reading in schools, the reading recovery programme, was scrapped by the previous Government in 1995.
 Mr. Byers : The national literacy strategy is an ambitious programme for achieving our target of 80 per cent. of 11-year-olds reaching the expected standard for their age in English by 2002.
 Mr. Dorrell : Ministers are fond of asserting that it is the Government's policy to continue the expansion of higher education that has occurred over the past 18 years. 1173
 Mr. Dorrell : Is it not already clear that there is a yawning chasm between the Secretary of State's rhetoric about a 5.7 per cent. increase in the average standard spending assessment across the country and likely experience of head teachers in terms of the increase in their schools' budgets that they will receive when the councils set their budgets early next year? Is it not
 1176 Evening Standard
 Mr. Dalyell : Does it have Government support?
 Mr. Tam Dalyell (Linlithgow) : On the narrow issue of the misleading of Parliament, and after spending 11 days in
 1191
 Mr. Boswell : Really?
 Mr. Boswell : Does the Minister agree that, contrary to the advice of the Dearing committee, the total abolition of maintenance grants is likely to lead to a real reduction in the numbers offering themselves for higher education. Do not the likely admission figures for next year already show that to be the case?
 Mr. Tom King  (Bridgwater) : I was sorry to see the amendment, which has been signed by the Conservative Front-Bench team on Northern Ireland, because I recognise that it represents a possible dent in the bipartisan approach which is critical to addressing the problems. 1240 1241
 Mr. Tom King : In a way, I have made exactly the same point. My criticism of the Anglo-Irish Agreement was not based on its substance, but on the lack of consultation. There should have been more consultation and it certainly would have been preferable. Holding the views he does, the hon. and learned Gentleman must accept my remarks about the need for consultation in all things.
 Mr. Tom King : The hon. and learned Gentleman might recall that, at the identical moment, Mr. Charles Haughey, who was then either the Taoiseach or the Leader of the Opposition in Ireland, was berating Dr. Garret Fitzgerald for saying that he had copper fastened partition.
 Mr. Colman : I thank my right hon. Friend for his response. An article in yesterday's  Financial Times Financial Times
12.  Mr. Colman : What steps he is taking to involve small and medium enterprises in the new deal for the young unemployed.[18758]
2.  Mr. Coaker : What plans he has to assist schools in areas of deprivation and disadvantage to raise standards. [18747]
 Mr. Coaker : I thank my right hon. Friend for that answer. Does he agree that one of the crucial concerns for the education action zones to address will be the fact that schools serving exactly the same sorts of areas of social deprivation—whether urban or rural—achieve vastly differing results, in examinations, truancy and exclusion levels and many other indicators? We need to ensure that all schools in those areas achieve their very best if the comprehensive ideal is to give all our children the start in life that they deserve.
 Mrs. Browning : While I welcome what the Minister has said about greater provision for higher education in Cornwall, which will be welcome throughout the west country, does he not realise that it his Government's policy that will penalise areas, particularly Cornwall? He will know, I hope, that average wages in Cornwall are 77.7 per cent. of the average in Great Britain. It is young people from families on lower incomes who will have the greatest difficulty now that the Government have rejected the Dearing recommendations and are about to force those young people, not only to pay tuition fees that will be repaid on a loan, but to pay 100 per cent. of their maintenance grant. It is precisely areas such as Cornwall which will notice first that fewer of their younger people are entering higher education.
 Mrs. Taylor : There is no evidence whatever that that is so. My hon. Friend has made her position clear, and took clear steps at a very early stage to ensure that she complied with the guidelines. The permanent secretary and the Cabinet Secretary are satisfied that she did.
 Mrs. Taylor : We have followed the convention of making statements following Council meetings. 1, too, have noticed considerable pressure from Labour and Liberal Democrat Members on the subject of Kyoto, although not one word has been said by Conservative
 1208
 Mrs. Taylor : Many constituencies include farming interests and food interests. All our constituents consume food and need proper reassurance. I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman's hon. Friends found his question so amusing—I thought it was extremely serious, which is why I announced earlier that I hoped for a statement before the House rose. That is not a guarantee, it is a hope; but it is a sign of how seriously Ministers treat the situation.
 Mrs. Taylor : That is indeed a serious issue. I am sure that Members on both sides would like to express their condolences to the families involved in the tragedy. I am not sure whether the hon. Gentleman will have a chance to raise the issue before Christmas, but the open debate next Wednesday morning, which we have before each recess, is particularly useful for raising such topics.
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman ought to know that the orders are always debated when they are laid before the House. That will be done next year. However, if he is asking us to say why we could not anticipate during the general election campaign a settlement that was made only a short time ago, he should know that, in my opinion, it would have been outrageous for us to be audacious enough to suggest that we could precisely guess such details that far in advance.
 Mrs. Taylor : People see a great deal of the real Deputy Prime Minister, and I hope that he will make a statement on Kyoto when he returns.
 Mrs. Taylor : There is no need for any such statement.
 Mrs. Taylor : I have no plans to arrange an invitation to No. 10 for the hon. Gentleman.
 Mrs. Taylor : Many Labour Members have farming interests, including my right hon. Friend the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. He has been very
 1206
 Mrs. Taylor : Ministers keep the House informed as appropriate. We had a debate on the European Union last Thursday.
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Gentleman would do well to read the most recent poll of Tory Members.
 Mrs. Taylor : Obviously, that is a matter for local consideration in the first instance, but I remind the hon. Lady that we have environment questions on Tuesday.
 Mrs. Taylor : I very much welcome and accept my hon. Friend's comments. I do not think that we are likely to get an objective assessment from a conference organised by a newspaper which has the explicit aim of decriminalising cannabis. On the other point that she raised, about the report by head teachers, we are aware that we need good education in schools. The Department for Education and Employment will be issuing some targeted guidance in the near future and Keith Hellawell, the UK anti-drugs co-ordinator, is developing plans to audit and do a full assessment of what works best in ensuring that young people do not fall into the drugs trap.
 Mrs. Taylor : The hon. Member, who is extremely well informed, will know that this is by no means the first occasion that a guillotine has been used on a Bill of that sort; it was used not least by his own Government in previous days. It is an important Bill and we have had 19 hours of discussion so far. We have had the same number of days of discussion as we had in 1986 on what became the Single European Act. Most people would agree that that was a major piece of legislation, yet consideration was completed satisfactorily following that guillotine. I notice that, on Second Reading of that Act, nowhere near as many Members voted as did on the Bill that we are now discussing. Although he has strong views, the hon. Gentleman has to realise that virtually no progress has been made on the Bill and it is for better discussion of all parts of the Bill that we are having a guillotine at this stage.
 Mrs. Taylor : I do not think that there is any need for a debate and, following last night's point of order, I made
 1202
 Mrs. Taylor : My hon. Friend clearly knows better than Conservative Members how to exercise his right to know. As I said earlier, there is no possibility of the Government's trying to restrict the questions that are asked, and the Table Office would certainly not tolerate that.
 Mrs. Taylor : I can well understand why the hon. Gentleman is concerned about the disruptions he mentions. I said earlier that Ministers are aware of and concerned about the situation and that we are hopeful that there can be a statement before the House rises for the Christmas recess.
 Mrs. Taylor : There are also transport questions on Tuesday, so the hon. Gentleman may be able to raise issues then. I cannot promise a full debate of the type that he requests, but I remind him of the three-hour Adjournment debate on Wednesday.
 Mrs. Taylor : I agree with my hon. Friend that the issue is important to every person in the country. The Government are undertaking a review of utility regulation and considering ways to strengthen customer protection. We welcome the Comptroller and Auditor General's report, and we have made careful note of his recommendations.
 Mrs. Taylor : I know that there have been cases recently of violence in emergency units—they can be tense places, and people can become extremely upset. The Minister of State, Department of Health is looking at giving further protection to people, especially women, who require protection in that situation. I do not think that it is possible to have a full debate next week, although it might be possible to raise such issues during the three-hour debate on Wednesday morning.
 Mrs. Taylor : I do not know what is made in the constituency of my hon. Friend the Member for City of York (Mr. Bayley), so my hon. Friend the Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner) had better be careful in what he says. 1204
 Mrs. Taylor : We shall have environment Question Time on Tuesday, but I can well understand why my hon. Friend thinks that we need more time to discuss these issues and to get a full report from my right hon. Friend the Deputy Prime Minister. The agreement is an important one: for the first time, it sets binding targets for developed countries to cut their greenhouse gas emissions, and it is, therefore, something we should all welcome. The House will want to be informed of the details and I am sure that my right hon. Friend will want to take an opportunity to do that as soon as possible.
 Mrs. Taylor : I cannot guarantee any statement on any particular day, but the hon. Lady will know that Ministers are well aware of the concerns of people involved in agriculture and that there was a full statement last week from my right hon. Friend the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. I am hopeful that there may be a statement in the House on BSE issues and the current situation in farming before the recess.
 Mrs. Taylor : That was a good try, but this is an internal matter for the Labour party. As my hon. Friend the Member for Bolsover (Mr. Skinner) said, I do not think that he needs any help from the Liberal Democrats.
 Mrs. Taylor : Many Members will be aware that my hon. Friend has had experience of the health service, which was, I am glad to say, extremely successful. He may be aware that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Health has, as part of the White Paper process,
 1201
 Mrs. Taylor : I regret very much the attitude taken by the right hon. Member for South-West Norfolk (Mrs. Shephard) in her response, particularly as she has repeated allegations about the Paymaster General which are unworthy of the House and have been thoroughly refuted elsewhere.
 Mrs. Taylor : The agreement reached at Kyoto is certainly historic and will help to counter the problems of climate change. The part played in those negotiations by my right hon. Friend the Deputy Prime Minister was extremely important and constructive. I expect that my right hon. Friend will be looking to make a statement in the House in the not-too-distant future. I cannot promise my hon. Friend the Member for Islington, North (Mr. Corbyn) the sort of debate that he wants in the near future, but I will bear his request in mind.
 Mrs. Taylor : I am glad that the right hon. Gentleman welcomes that.
 The President of the Council and Leader of the House of Commons (Mrs. Ann Taylor) : With permission, Madam Speaker, I should like to make a statement on the business for next week. [Lords] Official Report. Wednesday 14 January 1998 European Standing Committee A—Relevant European Community document: 8164/96, Cocoa and Chocolate. Relevant European Legislation Committee report: HC 155-ix (1997–98).]
 Miss Anne McIntosh  (Vale of York) : Will the right hon. Lady will make time for a statement by the Minister for the Regions, Regeneration and Planning on planning procedures? The City of York council is currently undergoing a massive consultation exercise on a proposed park and ride scheme in the Vale of York. The only people who are not being consulted in that exercise are the residents of Rawcliffe, where the scheme is to be situated. I believe that they deserve a statement on that matter from the Minister responsible for planning, and I hope that the Government will make time for that.
 Mrs. Gillian Shephard  (South-West Norfolk) : I thank the right hon. Lady for her statement and for giving the House the business for the first week after the recess. She is an enthusiastic and skilful Chairman of the Modernisation Committee, and I hope that she will explain to the House why, in practice, she is not only not modernising the sitting hours of the House but has chosen to ignore the Jopling rules by arranging controversial and potentially lengthy business on three successive Thursdays. It is true that the Government have somewhat incompetently overloaded their legislative programme—hence the need for yet another guillotine motion next week—but there is no reason why they should ride roughshod over the rules that they came into office
 1198 Financial Times Financial Times 1199
 Mrs. Gwyneth Dunwoody  (Crewe and Nantwich) : I warmly welcome my right hon. Friend's statement. Being prepared to make uncomfortable facts known to the general public is a sign of a self-confident Government. Is he aware that the previous Government, at the end of their tenure, had a deliberate policy of concealment of information? They established various subsidiary agencies, which constantly bleated and used commercial reasons to justify hiding facts that should have been in the public domain. Will my right hon. Friend guarantee that his Bill will be framed in such a way as to enable Parliament to know not only what is good and comfortable, but what is uncomfortable and awkward? That is the sign of a mature and sensible Parliament.
 Helen Jackson  (Sheffield, Hillsborough) : On a point of order, Madam Speaker. The hon. Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough (Mr. Willis) was a member of a Back-Bench cross-party fact-finding visit to Northern Ireland this week, during which we had a number of useful private meetings with parties and organisations. He left the visit early to come back to Prime Minister's questions, because his question to the Prime Minister had been selected.
 Helen Jackson : Further to that point of order, Madam Speaker. I placed letters on the Board not just to the Member concerned but to the political party that nominated him and to the leader of that party.
 Mrs. Lait : Is the Secretary of State aware that, because of the excellence of the education provided by Bromley council, many parents from surrounding Labour-run boroughs send their children to schools in Bromley? Would he care to give us a time scale suggesting how soon he expects the improvements that he promises in education to take place in the surrounding Labour boroughs, so that the parents of children in Bromley can choose the school that they wish their children to attend?
 Mrs. Margaret Ewing (Moray) : Can the Leader of the House arrange to have a statement made early next week in connection with the agriculture industry? Is she aware that farmers and consumers alike are confused by the evidence being produced by the various scientific organisations? We are particularly concerned about whether the Government will make any compensation available to our agricultural communities as a result of the appreciation of sterling.
 Ms Hodge : I do not know whether my hon. Friend the Minister has had a chance to look at the Select Committee on Education and Employment report that was published yesterday on the funding issues arising out of the Dearing report and the Government's proposals. If he has, does he agree with the Committee's findings that, while we generally accept the thrust of Government policy, there will be a funding gap in the year 1999–2000, before the money starts to flow in? Does he further agree that that gap should not be met by declining standards in higher education, greater student poverty or continuing the cap on student numbers in higher education? Therefore, will he give the House some idea of whether he is considering other measures, such as those suggested in the Select Committee report, as a means of meeting that funding gap?
 Ann Clwyd  (Cynon Valley) : I, too, would like to congratulate my right hon. Friend, who has fought a long, hard and personal battle to produce the White Paper. It is good to have it today. Will the intelligence and security services be covered by the White Paper, particularly as MI5 is increasingly carrying out investigations into matters that cannot be described as national security, such as fraud and computer fraud in Whitehall? Will he assure us that those matters will be covered by the legislation?
 Ms Taylor : I am pleased to welcome the education action zones. We should appreciate knowing when the criteria for the education action zones will be published and what they will be.
11.  Ms Dari Taylor : What plans he has to raise standards in schools in areas of disadvantage. [18757]
 Ms Debra Shipley  (Stourbridge) : In view of the excellent work carried out by nurses and staff in our emergency services and of the growing concern about their safety among the public and professionals, will my right hon. Friend make time next week for a debate on the safety of our emergency units?
 Ms Morris : Indeed. That is why, I was delighted to announce last Friday, Official Report
 Ms Morris : I share my hon. Friend's concern about the under-performance of children in care. Statutorily, the state is their parent, and they have been badly let down. We want to address that issue through our responsibility not only for those with special educational needs but for looked-after children in general. We need far greater co-ordination between health authorities, social services and the education service, which have a joint collective responsibility to ensure that those children are cared for and receive a good standard of education. At the moment, many of them are being too badly let down.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Education and Employment (Ms Estelle Morris) : On 22 October, we published a Green Paper, "Excellence for all children", setting out our proposals for raising the achievement of children with special educational needs. We are beginning to receive responses to the consultation from a wide range of interests.
 Ms Morris : I acknowledge the hon. Gentleman's contribution in this sector over many years and welcome his comments. Many young people have a valuable contribution to make in supporting the learning of younger people. I shall certainly take on board his suggestions.
 Ms Estelle Morris : We set out in "Excellence in schools" our strategy for raising standards in all schools. That includes imaginative approaches, one of which is certainly peer tutoring. It is already the practice in significant numbers of schools, and available research evidence suggests that it is effective.
 Ms Morris : Yes, and I take this opportunity to congratulate my hon. Friend's local authority in Bradford on its work, as well as the authorities in Winchester, Kirklees and Birmingham. There has been much innovation which, as the evidence shows, has raised standards. The key point is that not only the students who are tutored raise their standards: those who do the tutoring benefit as well. Peer tutoring means winning all round.
 Mrs. Brinton : I thank my hon. Friend for his reply. I speak as a former English teacher. Does my hon. Friend agree that summer literacy schools are one of the most effective ways of bringing literacy—reading and writing—to young people, especially those in disadvantaged communities? Is he prepared to comment on the recent evaluation of pilot projects that were held this summer? Is he aware that in my constituency of Peterborough we held two very successful projects at Bretton Woods community school and John Mansfield school? Those projects will be run again in 1998; will my hon. Friend visit them next summer, meet some of the young people and share with them in their achievement?
13.  Mrs. Brinton : If he will make a statement on the literacy strategy. [18759]
 Helen Jones  (Warrington, North) : I am sure that my right hon. Friend is aware of the campaign by  The Independent on Sunday 1205
 Ms Joan Walley  (Stoke-on-Trent, North) : May I simply reiterate the request made by my hon. Friend the Member for Islington, North (Mr. Corbyn)? It is crucial that, as soon as the Deputy Prime Minister gets back and has had a chance to recover from all his negotiations in Kyoto, we have not only a statement, but an opportunity for a full debate. The implications of the agreement are so wide and far reaching that it is crucial that we set out in the House how we are to move the matter forward on the world platform.
 Ms Tess Kingham (Gloucester) : I warmly welcome my right hon. Friend's statement and the fact that it extends to police authorities. I have been frustrated since being elected that I have not been allowed access to Police Complaints Authority reports, and I know that my predecessor was also frustrated by that. Will my right hon. Friend tell the House whether PCA reports, especially about investigations of deaths in custody, will be covered by the legislation?
 Sir Patrick Cormack  (South Staffordshire) : I thank the right hon. Gentleman for his courtesy in supplying me with a copy of the statement earlier today. I also endorse your remarks on Tuesday, Madam Speaker, in thanking the right hon. Gentleman for his full apology for the most unfortunate and deeply deplored leak that occurred on that day. When he responds to my questions, will the Minister inform the House how far his inquiries have progressed?
 Sir Raymond Whitney  (Wycombe) : While I fully endorse the benefits of open decisions that have been openly arrived at, does the right hon. Gentleman agree that, in any organisation, there is always a need for some degree of confidentiality if it is to function effectively—whether it is a family, a parochial church council, a company or the Government? Does he further agree that those who write thunderous editorials about the need for ever more open government are themselves most jealous in keeping their own secrets? Does he agree that his high-minded attachment to the benefits of open government, which I fully accept as sincere, sits somewhat oddly with the record of how we had to drag out of the Government their dealings in the formula one affair?
 Hon. Members : That is rubbish.
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Hon. Members : Object.
 Dr. Whitehead : I cannot say that I was a professor in English grammar. Were I to be a professor of English grammar, I can assure the hon. Gentleman that I would continue in a much more tortuous way than I have.
 Dr. Whitehead : With respect, the clause says that appropriate security devices should be fitted
 "to all room and ward doors".
 Dr. Whitehead : My hon. Friend the Minister has already asked the NHS executive estates agency to issue advice, which I believe it has, on the security and design of psychiatric units. That advice concerns locking bedroom doors and safeguarding personal property, en suite toilet facilities and observation arrangements. The advice that has been issued does precisely what I have
 1321
 Dr. Whitehead : What I appear to be having difficulty in getting Opposition Members to accept is—
 Dr. Whitehead : I recall, Mr. Deputy Speaker, hearing the hon. Member for Teignbridge state that party animus or personal unpleasantness rarely enter such debates. I am sorry that that has occurred only a few minutes after he made that remark. It reflects poorly on how I understood the debate should be conducted and on how the hon. Gentleman said that it should be conducted. 1322 "The patients that I see are not usually so bothered by the loss or lack of income that comes from unemployment as they are by other feelings. Shortage of money is a difficult enemy but at least it is visible and there are some choices to be made in the combat. The real pain comes from the sense of uselessness, of not contributing, of not being able to describe oneself as part of the common endeavour … Unemployment is a strong predisposing factor in attempted suicide, the modern epidemic. Fifty per cent. of men of working age who attempt suicide are unemployed. The number of men in the age range of 20–35 is rising, as is the incidence of alcohol and drug related disorders. Surveys of patients in psychiatric admission units during Health Advisory Service. visits in early 1983 showed that as few as 5 per cent. of patients of working age have a job. Absence of paid employment is therefore a frequent accompaniment of mental illness or psychological distress. It may not be the sole cause, but it certainly makes the situation and treatment much more difficult."
 Dr. Whitehead : This hon. Gentleman has made it clear that he does not agree with the Bill. I believe that I need to make a case for not agreeing with it, which I hope I have done in some detail.
 Dr. Whitehead : The reason why I wish to continue until the end of my speech is that it makes a coherent case. As far as I am aware, the House wishes to listen to coherent cases. If I sit down, halfway through making my case—
 Dr. Whitehead : One does not have to be halfway through a speech to make half a case. I am attempting to make an entire case that is based on a coherent train of logic, during which I shall attempt to introduce various facts relating to it. Those two approaches are not necessarily conterminous in time. 1324 [Interruption.]
 Dr. Whitehead : I have a great deal of sympathy for the hon. Gentleman's comments about the closure of long-stay hospitals, but it is necessary to be absolutely clear about the circumstances in which the majority of people in those hospitals were discharged. They were not acute cases, but, by and large, people who, these days, might not be admitted—most of us would say that they should never have been admitted.
 Dr. Whitehead : Are the examples of good practice that my hon. Friend has given being disseminated on more widely? Are other health authorities taking stock of what is being done in his constituency, and will they be taking some of those ideas up?
 Dr. Alan Whitehead  (Southampton, Test) : Thank you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to take part in this debate. I congratulate the hon. Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis) on bringing the subject to the House for debate. I agree with the hon. Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Winterton) that it is almost forgotten in parliamentary debate and, indeed, in public debate. 1317 "isolated, majestic, imperious, brooded over by the gigantic water-tower and chimney combined, rising unmistakable and daunting out of the countryside—the asylums which our forefathers built with such immense solidity." 1318
 Dr. Whitehead : I thank the hon. Gentleman for his suggestion. However, in order to comment seriously on the issues that we are discussing, it is necessary to lay the groundwork so that people can understand what lies o behind them. The hon. Gentleman mentioned security for women in hospital. That relates to the whole history of people being locked up in psychiatric institutions, as I have described.
 Dr. Whitehead : If hon. Members will stop intervening, I shall explain. However, I will give way to the hon. Gentleman.
 Dr. Whitehead : I am happy to explain my views. I would have come to clause 2 later, but I will explain my views now. Important points have been raised. I share the hon. Gentleman's view that, if people are taken out of the community, either voluntarily or involuntarily—as the hon. Gentleman says, it is voluntarily in most cases—they must have a strong expectation that they are going to an environment that is safe and "therapeutic", as the Bill says— [Interruption.]
 Dr. Whitehead : I regret the aggressive tone of that intervention. The answer to the question is, of course, yes—there's a surprise. It is facile to assume that, because I agree that women should be safe in the hospitals to which they have been committed, either voluntarily or involuntarily, I have nothing further to say on the subject. The care, including treatment and rehabilitation, of people who suffer from mental illness is complex nowadays. "the fitting of appropriate security devices to all room and ward doors in all existing psychiatric units to prevent unauthorised intrusion." 1320 [Interruption.]
 Dr. Whitehead : The hon. Gentleman misunderstands the clause, which refers to
 "the fitting of appropriate security devices to all room and ward doors"—
 Dr. Whitehead : The hon. Gentleman argues admirably that the health authority should have a strategy for provision, but he tells the House that the Bill will not cost any money. Clause 1(a) states that the health authority must
 "prepare a strategy for the provision of in-patient facilities", "the fitting if appropriate security devices to all room and ward doors in all existing psychiatric units".
 Dr. Alan Whitehead  (Southampton, Test) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Dr. Whitehead : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that a major component of the delay in implementing the care in the community provisions after the rundown of old-style mental hospitals resulted from the fact that many
 1274
 Dr. George Turner  (North-West Norfolk) : As a new Member of Parliament, I might have some things to say to the hon. Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis) and to Ministers which are distinctive because of experience outside the House. Lawyers believe that the world needs more law, and parliamentarians believe that the world needs more legislation. The hurdle that the hon. Member for New Forest, East needs to overcome is to convince me that legislation is required. 1286
 Dr. Turner : I said that it was probably with the best of intentions that the example was used to add colour to the debate. I believe that those outside the House will recognise the validity of my remarks in terms of society's attitude to mental illness. 1287
 Dr. Turner : I am not arguing that the Bill has or does not have cash implications. I am asking whether we need to legislate or whether we need to ensure instead that Ministers are doing their job. If the Minister tells me later in the debate that he does not have sympathy with my views and that it is not the responsibility of his Department to ensure that such views are put into practice, possibly I can be persuaded to agree to legislate and to be rebellious for the first time since I joined new Labour. The Minister has yet to speak, of course. 1288
 Dr. Julian Lewis : The hon. Gentleman completely misunderstood the point when he referred to a preference for a broken leg rather than mental illness. The person involved did not go into any institution during the mental illness, and stigma had nothing to do with it. The point is that the horror of the mental illness was far worse than the pain of the broken leg—no more and no less.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : Will the hon. Lady give way to me?
 Dr. Julian Lewis indicated dissent
 Dr. Lewis : You bet.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : Like the hon. Lady, I am a new Member. I have heard about hon. Members talking out a Bill by introducing total irrelevancies. It is interesting to see that happening for the first time today.
 Dr. Lewis : To be interrupted in that way is perhaps another form of psychological torture. 1264 "The Commission recommends as a measure to secure privacy and safety that, wherever practicable, patients' single rooms should be lockable from the inside, but with staff having a master key." "Only a minority of wards have policies dealing specifically with women's safety. Features of the physical environment of particular importance to women, such as lockable bedroom doors, self-contained washing and toilet facilities or a suitable place for visiting children, are too often lacking, although some units have made great efforts to improve." "Safety for women on psychiatric wards is a major issue, especially where staffing levels are low and violence considerable, as in the London area. A patient mix including men with a history of violence and young women with a history of abuse occurs on some wards. It has been reported to the Commission that Approved Social Workers are having to take such risk factors into account when considering applying for an admission." 1265 "Women are particularly vulnerable in Regional Secure Units where there may be very few other female patients, and a lack of female staff. Mother and baby units are sometimes unsuitably placed in a corner of an acute ward. Staff generally are not trained to care for babies and Health Visitors do not visit the wards. The Patients' Charter standard, offering a choice of single sex accommodation, is rarely met. This is a particular need for women from ethnic minorities whose cultural and religious practice forbids contact with men. Although many units have made considerable efforts to provide safe facilities for women and to preserve their privacy and dignity, there remains much room for improvement. The findings of the Commission's National Visit show that just over a third (35 per cent.) of women have access to women-only sleeping areas … a quarter (27 per cent.) have to pass male parts of the ward to reach women-only toilets, baths or showers; a third (32 per cent.) have access only to mixed sex toilets, bath or shower facilities. A small number (3 per cent.) use sleeping areas also used by men. Only a minority of units in the National Visit reported having policies dealing specifically with women's safety, although, when questioned, 58 per cent. of nurses thought there were issues of sexual harassment of women patients by male patients on the ward. One nurse saw 'no problem', but recalled two sexual assaults the previous year! There is a need for staff to be continually alert to women's sexual vulnerability." 1266 "The Bill is designed to ensure that some of the most vulnerable members of our society are given care and treatment in safe and therapeutic environments, where their privacy, dignity and security is protected. … People with mental illness are being neglected and lives lost. Dr Lewis's proposals may well prevent many unnecessary tragedies." "NSF wholeheartedly supports the principles outlined in the Mental Health (Amendment) Bill and encourages all Members to support it." "there is significant evidence amongst our members that this is the provision women want … In order to ensure that a hospital admission will benefit rather than add to the trauma … it is vital that the NHS provide single sex ward accommodation,  particularly "MIND welcomes Clause 2 of Dr. Lewis's Bill which imposes a duty on health authorities to provide single-sex ward areas in existing psychiatric units and to fit appropriate security devices to doors." "long been concerned about the needs and safety of vulnerable patients, particularly women patients, and would welcome a duty being placed on Health Authorities to provide single-sex ward areas and to make other security arrangements for the protection of patients." 1267 "Each Health Authority shall be under a duty to … prepare a strategy for the provision of in-patient" "within separate and therapeutic environments." 1268 "that all future psychiatric units are, so far as is practicable, designed and constructed in a manner which fulfils the requirements" "Members of Parliament suffering from mental illness." "Where a member of the House of Commons is authorised to be detained on the ground (however formulated) that he is suffering from mental illness, it shall be the duty of the … person in charge of the hospital or other place in which the member is authorised to be detained, to notify the Speaker of the House of Commons that the detention has been authorised … Where the Speaker receives a notification under subsection (1) above, the Speaker shall cause the member to whom the notification relates to be visited and examined by two registered medical practitioners … The registered medical practitioners shall be appointed by the … Royal College of Psychiatrists and … shall report to the Speaker whether the member is suffering from mental illness and is authorised to be detained as such." [Interruption.]
 Dr. Julian Lewis  (New Forest, East) : I beg to move, That the Bill be now read a Second time. [Interruption.]
 Dr. Lewis : I thank my hon. Friend; I was hoping to attract a hostage to fortune.
 Dr. Lewis : The hon. Gentleman was unsuccessful, to the great benefit of the whole country. 1269 "The Government has committed itself anew to the historic principle of the NHS: that if you are ill or injured there will be a national health service there to help; and access to it will be based on need and need alone".
 Dr. Lewis : The clause says "appropriate" security devices—appropriate, appropriate, appropriate.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : If the hon. Gentleman went to stay in a five-star hotel, there would be a lock on the bedroom door, which he could open from the inside but which no unauthorised person could open from the outside. That would not add to a sense of oppression or over-security. If the hon. Gentleman thinks that it would, I suggest that he take the lock off the front door of his home. I am sure that he has no intention of doing so.
 Dr. Lewis : I thank the hon. Gentleman for giving way, albeit reluctantly. I do not see how the history of people being locked up in establishments has anything to do with the proposal that people who go into establishments, usually voluntarily, should be able to lock out people who intend to attack them.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Dr. Julian Lewis : I appreciate that clause 1 refers to a relatively narrow issue, as does clause 2, which deals with women who are vulnerable to sexual attack. If, as I expect, the Minister will say something favourable to the principles of clause 2 for one narrow situation, I see nothing wrong with advancing the case of people who are at risk of suicide, whether they are suffering from acute breakdown or schizophrenia, as so eloquently described by my hon. Friend the Member for Tiverton and Honiton (Mrs. Browning). That is no more narrow a case than that of the women at risk. If the Government accept that something should be done for one group, they should accept that something should be done for the other.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : I know of a specific case involving someone who suffered an acute mental breakdown in recent times in the area covered by the acute psychiatric unit in Barnet. The person concerned was told by the general practitioner that, although a bed was available in the acute psychiatric unit at Barnet, she would not advise him to take it up, because he would be surrounded there by seriously disturbed people. It is that very case that first interested me in this issue.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : I thank the hon. Gentleman for his considerable courtesy in giving way yet again. Could the fact that the Minister has now left the Chamber have something to do with his experience in that earlier meeting with the hon. Gentleman?
 Dr. Julian Lewis : My hon. Friend has said—with articulateness and passion which, sadly, I could not muster—exactly what I was trying to explain. He has identified the exact category of person and exactly the circumstance that first led me to take an interest in this matter, which is so far outside my usual areas of expertise.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : Let me set this clearly on the record. I have been categorical in stating what clauses different organisations support. The National Schizophrenia Fellowship and SANE support the whole Bill. MIND supports clauses 2 and 3. The Mental After Care Association is the only organisation that has said that it does not think that primary legislation is necessary. All the other organisations have said that they wish the Bill, wholly or in part, to be passed. That is clear and unambiguous.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : I believe that, in a former life, the hon. Gentleman was a professor. May I take it for granted that he was not a professor of English grammar?
 Dr. Lewis : Is it the hon. Gentleman's intention to favour the House with another half an hour of his ruminations?
 Dr. Julian Lewis : I confirm that the hon. Gentleman has made his case in some detail. Like the hon. Member for Hendon (Mr. Dismore), he has spoken for longer than I did when I introduced the Bill. He has served his purpose, and his Whips will have noticed; his duty has been discharged, if not honourably. Why does he not now draw his remarks to a conclusion so that my hon. Friend the Member for West Suffolk (Mr. Spring) can make his speech and so that the Minister can talk out the Bill in person?
 Dr. Lewis : It is easily amendable—the hon. Gentleman could delete the word "all".
 Dr. Julian Lewis : I thank the hon. Gentleman for showing us that, while he seems on the face of it to be being polite, he is really reverting to the true style that lies beneath the surface of his gentility.
 Dr. Julian Lewis : I thank the Minister for his generosity in giving way, and for the money that he is making available. Will he tell us, however, whether any of that money will be used to address the specific concerns in my Bill: that people cannot get into acute beds; that locks need to be fitted on doors; and that single-sex ward areas should be provided?
 Mr. Dismore : The hon. Gentleman makes an interesting point. I know that my hon. Friend the Minister has read the report and considered its recommendations extremely thoroughly, so, obviously, there is no need for him to hear me read them out again. "insupportable and unacceptable management failures. Decisions were taken in the course of the transfer that were driven by bureaucracy and the market rather than the requirements of patient care. The result was a completely inadequate response to the needs of elderly, frail people." "This new Labour Government is absolutely determined that lessons are learned across health and social services. We have already begun work on new guidance"— 1310
 Mr. Dismore : The hon. Gentleman asks from a sedentary position whether I got a word in edgeways—[HON. MEMBERS: "Did he get a word in edgeways?"] Well, I certainly did a lot of talking at that meeting, because I wanted to get home to the Minister the seriousness with which my constituents view the tragedy that happened in the local community.
 Mr. Dismore : There is more than the one remedy of locking people up in psychiatric institutions. In fact, I was about to make a point on the way in which we are looking at the problem of mentally disordered offenders in my health authority area. 1311
 Mr. Dismore : I thank the hon. Gentleman for that intervention. That is precisely why, in my area, we are reviewing facilities with a view to improving them. Day hospital services are being investigated so as to achieve the most effective way of meeting the needs of people with acute mental health problems who might otherwise need in-patient care, but who do not need the long-term support of day services. These are of a drop-in, therapeutic, community or employment-focused variety. 1308 "The responsibility for ensuring the safe transfer of frail, elderly patients suffering from dementia … remains shared" "did not adequately take into account all the risks associated with transfer." "The planning, implementation and monitoring of the transfer was not carried out to the level of detail necessary to protect individual frail, elderly patients suffering with dementia. The planning of primary care provision was not sufficiently addressed. Insufficient consideration was given to the specific risks involved in this transfer and how these could be reduced or managed. Inadequate time was given for new staff to become familiar with the frail, elderly patients who would be transferring from Napsbury … to Elmstead … and with their individual needs and care plans.
 Mr. Dismore : I am referring to the elderly frail who are suffering from severe dementia, and who require mental health support. I said that. The detailed report, which I am sure the hon. Lady would like to read when she has time, gives examples of the problems. "appointment of the GP to provide primary care service on 1 April 1997"— "gave insufficient time to allow" "Communications across the organisations did not fully address individual responsibilities, programming, monitoring of progress and decision making. 1309 Communications between clinicians was inadequate. The decision to alter at short notice the planned transfer timetable to Elmstead House was insupportable. The knowledge of the general risk of mortality following transfer had not been adequately disseminated to those involved in the resettlement of patients from Napsbury Hospital"; "There was a need for detailed central guidance from the Department of Health on the resettlement of patients from long stay settings."
 Mr. Dismore : That does not answer my point. We must consider mental health services as a whole. The hon. Gentleman makes a valid point that there is a series
 1305 1306
 Mr. Andrew Dismore  (Hendon) : I congratulate the hon. Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis) on securing second place in the ballot. His Bill deals with an interesting subject. I apologise to him and to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for not being able to remain for the whole debate, and I thank you for calling me at this stage. 1303 1304
 Mr. Dismore : I am coming to the provision of psychiatric facilities; it is a couple of pages further on. All will be revealed in time.
 Mr. Dismore : As I no longer work for the firm, I have no intention of giving the telephone number, but if the hon. Gentleman would like the details, I can give them to him afterwards. I am even prepared to give him the telephone number of the law firm of which I remain a partner, although I am not taking cases, so he would not be able to rely on my services.
 Mr. Dismore : I thank the hon. Gentleman for contributing" and for doing so at such length. I am pleased that his mother is one of my constituents. I hope that, by the end of my speech, I might have persuaded her to my way of thinking, and might have her vote at the next election. I shall come in a moment or two to the issue of in-patient treatment in the area, but I now return to what I was saying before I was interrupted. 1307
 Mr. Dismore : That is an important theme in the White Paper, which was also highlighted by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for Health when he presented the White Paper, and in subsequent press coverage. It is important for examples of good practice to be spread throughout the health service. I hope that, as the White Paper's policies develop, the examples that I have given will be disseminated more widely. The training programme in my local health authority involves a partnership approach, and a recognition of special needs in the community. 1312
 Mr. Andrew Dismore  (Hendon) : If that is what is needed, why does not the Bill say so? It states that the purpose is to
 "prepare a strategy for the provision of in-patient facilities".
 Mr. Clive Efford  (Eltham) : The hon. Lady is falling into the trap into which some of her hon. Friends have fallen, of believing that the Bill is the only way to deal with the problem. Does she agree that there is no difference of opinion across the Floor of the House on the need to consider the appropriate provision for people with mental health needs, and the dignity with which they need to be treated in overnight institutions? The point is whether that can be dealt with by a Government commitment. [Interruption.] 1291
 Mr. Efford rose
 Mr. Efford : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Efford : The point is whether the Bill addresses the needs of people with mental health problems, not whether we debate clause 1. I think that there is a commitment on the Government Front Bench to accept and enact the provisions of clauses 2 and 3 without the need for the Bill to go into Committee and for us to talk among ourselves.
 Mr. Atkinson : No. I have given way three times, and that is enough. 1275
 Mr. Atkinson : My hon. Friend is right to emphasise that point, which supports the need for the Bill. I hope that the Minister will endorse that later.
 Mr. Atkinson : My hon. Friend is right. Although I suggest that it is not the principal concern that the Bill seeks to address, there is a "not in my backyard" approach on the part of our constituents, which is detrimental to the needs of patients and must be tackled. It should be tackled much more positively by local authorities and in the way that my hon. Friend suggests.
 Mr. David Atkinson  (Bournemouth, East) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis) on his good fortune in the ballot in his first Parliament and, in particular, on his choice of Bill. I also congratulate him on the eloquent and imaginative way in which he presented it to the House. 1273
 Mr. Atkinson : Although I have applauded what the previous Conservative Government did for the mentally ill and in expanding the provision of mental health services, I have remained critical of the fact that there was no strategy to ensure that the proceeds of the closure of the old mental hospitals were transferred to the provision of care in the community.
 Mr. Atkinson : I shall give way once more, but not again.
 Mr. Atkinson : I believe that Mrs. Short succeeded my hon. Friend as the Chairman of the Committee.
 Mr. Atkinson : Well, the fact that my hon. Friend was a member of that Committee contributed to the warning that services were inadequate—were not keeping pace with changing needs. I pay tribute to him and the members of the Committee.
 Mr. Dennis Skinner  (Bolsover) : It was tried once on Thatcher.
 Mr. John Bercow  (Buckingham) : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Bercow : I am listening to the hon. Lady's speech with rapt attention. Would she, however, address herself to the provisions of the Bill? Specifically, does she support clause 2, which seeks to protect women through single-sex ward areas? If she does not support the clause, will she tell the House why?
 Mr. Bercow : I suggest that the hon. Gentleman has misread the terms of the Bill. If my hon. Friend the Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis) is suggesting the provision of single-sex wards, there would be cost implications. Instead, my hon. Friend is suggesting the provision of single-sex ward areas, which does not carry anything like the same cost implications. Has the hon. Gentleman taken account of that and does he support clause 2—yes or no?
 Mr. Bercow : If, as he claims, what the Bill seeks to do is already happening, why does the hon. Member think that two expert charities in the field, MIND and SANE, support the Bill?
 Mr. Bercow : I am especially pleased to listen to the hon. Gentleman's speech, because my mother is one of his constituents—although, sadly for him, not one of his supporters. In view of the importance of the findings of the Mental Health Act commissioners, following their visit to facilities in psychiatric units in November 1996, would the hon. Gentleman care to remind the House exactly what those findings were? Does he believe that they are valid, and might they cause him to support the Bill?
 Mr. Heppell : Before the hon. Gentleman asks me to comment, I would like to see what MIND said. Something was quoted earlier, but when I read on, I realised that MIND had said a bit more. It is easy to quote selectively from letters. I could pick out the comments of the Mental After Care Association against clause 1 and then say that it was for clause 2. MACA states:
 "We fully support Dr. Lewis' aims in Clause 2 to protect vulnerable patients while they are in hospital, though believe these could be achieved without recourse to primary legislation."
 Mr. Heppell : I do not think that that is necessary, because the independent reference group will do exactly that. It will advise the Government not only on hospital closures but on other issues such as long-term hospital stays, reducing the stigma of mental illness, ensuring that
 1295
 Mr. Heppell : I apologise, Mr. Deputy Speaker.
 Mr. Heppell : I have no great objections to that, although I consider it a bit of a waste of the time of hon. Members. Conservative Members such as the hon. Member for Bournemouth, East have argued that the Bill is not adequate and mentioned what needed to be discussed. To treat in-patient beds as a separate issue is to do a great disservice to our current mental health services, which I hope will be improved.
 Mr. John Heppell  (Nottingham, East) : I share the view of some of my hon. Friends that the Bill is well meaning. I am sure that it is the intention of the hon. Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis) to try to improve provision for people who are mentally ill. However, the Bill's provisions are either unnecessary or, in the worst scenario, could make the situation for mentally ill people even worse. 1293 "strategy for the provision of in-patient facilities".
 Mr. Heppell : I will come to that point shortly. First, let me continue my quotation from the speech of my hon. Friend the Under-Secretary of State for Health, because it is so brilliant. He gave an analogy: he said that we should stop pulling people out of the river, when we should be ensuring that they did not jump into the river in the first place. That is what is wrong with the Bill. It deals only with the end result. My hon. Friends and I do
 1294
 Mr. Heppell : I shall not repeat my hon. Friend's sedentary remark. He makes the point that some colleagues of the hon. Member for New Forest, East have said things that were in some respects out of context.
 Mr. Heppell : I want to make it clear for the record that the remarks of the hon. Member for Teignbridge (Mr. Nicholls) were not aimed at me. 1296
 Mr. Heppell : I shall not respond to that comment. I have quite a few students in my constituency, and I would not want to upset them. "there has been growing pressure on acute psychiatric beds … To help address these pressure it is important for the Government to reform the Mental Health Act to support treatment in the community even when a patient is reluctant to receive it"— "and secondly to ensure that there are sufficient numbers of medical students being trained as well as nurses to ensure that there are sufficient clinical staff available to work in community mental health services." 1297
 Mr. John Heppell  (Nottingham, East) : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Colvin : Is not planning the main problem? The main difficulty with care in the community comes when planning applications are made for a change of use of domestic property. As the previous Government ignored the matter, is it not incumbent on the present Government to issue new planning policy guidance regarding care in the community homes for the mentally ill?
 Mr. Colvin rose
 Mr. Michael Colvin  (Romsey) : I acknowledge the hon. Lady's knowledge of mental health services, in which she has worked. However, before she goes further, I have to say that I am not sure that she has really grasped the full intention of the Bill. Clause 1 does not call for more institutions, beds, and so on; it calls on the authorities concerned to draw up a strategy, which may well include the care in the community for which the hon. Lady is making such an eloquent case.
 Mr. Colvin : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : This debate has been conducted in a good mood so far and has been very constructive. I would be grateful if we could finish it in the same way.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Order. The hon. Gentleman keeps using the word "you". The Chair is not responsible for the matters to which he refers. Will the hon. Gentleman try to use the correct parliamentary language?
 Mr. Deputy Speaker : Before I call the next hon. Member to speak, I must draw the House's attention to the fact that it has been necessary to reissue today's Order Paper, The House will wish to know that the Order Paper as originally printed omitted in error the Public House Names Bill promoted by the hon. Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Winterton). The Order Paper has therefore been reissued and now includes the Bill as item No. 9. Copies of the revised Order Paper are now available in the Vote Office.
 Mr. Deputy Speaker (Mr. Michael Lord) : Order. Will the hon. Member for Southampton, Test (Dr. Whitehead) leave the Chamber please? Electrical devices are not supposed to be brought in unless they are under control.
 Mr. Winterton : But the hon. Gentleman has quoted an inaccurate statistic.
 Mr. Winterton : No; I succeeded her.
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : In respect of my hon. Friend's comment about the pace of removal of hospital facilities for mental illness, does he accept that that reflects entirely the views of the Select Committee on Social Services in the 1984–85 Session? Summary recommendation No. 2 of that Committee's second report states:
 "The pace of removal of hospital facilities for mental illness has far outrun the provision of services in the community to replace them."
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton : Will the hon. Gentleman give way?
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton : Will not the hon. Gentleman go along with the suggestion of the hon. Member for Southwark, North and Bermondsey (Mr. Hughes) that the matter should ideally be sent to a Special Standing Committee for further evidence to be taken before the Bill came back for further consideration? It is an important matter.
 Mr. Winterton : I am grateful for the hon. Lady's comment. Such remarks do not often come across the Chamber. It is very rewarding for me that a Labour Member is prepared to speak in those terms.
 Mr. Winterton : Even the Minister is nodding modestly. 1301 1302
 Mr. Winterton : I am grateful to my hon. Friend for that comment. I am doing my best to support him. Although some may disagree with certain provisions in his limited Bill, there is no reason why it should not go into Committee for further consideration. If the Government do not like clause 1, it would be simple to amend it in Committee. I understand that the Government fully support the other proposals, which could be enshrined in legislation. "We recommend that at least an equivalent proportion of those resources, services and amenities presently devoted to the most severely mentally disabled continue to be so devoted in the future." "The simple facts are that there is little prospect of major change for the better for many mentally disabled people. We must face the fact that some people need asylum." 1300 "We recommend that the Department draw on the experience of the existing hospital hostels with a view to producing practical guidance to authorities on the lessons to be drawn for future provision of asylum care." "We recommend that hospital planning guidance from the DHSS"— "should emphasise the advantage of DGH"— "psychiatric units being planned as physically separate entities, with space around them, with more attention being paid to off-ward facilities; and that it should also draw attention to the drawbacks of the standard design of medical wards." "under-provided areas should give urgent priority to creating adequate day care facilities for those recovering from mental illness." "service providers take the variety of needs into consideration when planning mental illness day care facilities and that encouragement be given to voluntary effort in the provision of informal day care." "We recommend that the DHSS and local agencies encourage schemes for voluntary work by those recovering from mental illness." "Great difficulties are being experienced in procuring emergency psychiatric care, putting a strain on the individuals concerned and their families. That is the present reality of community care as seen by many families. We recommend that catchment area boundaries for admission to mental illness hospitals should not be applied so inflexibly as to inhibit reasonable choice, and that admission policies should be established to reflect an individual's need for treatment or care rather than his prognosis."
 Mr. Winterton : I entirely share the view expressed in so reasonable a manner by the hon. Gentleman. Of course, in the old days, a simple young man from a village outside Macclesfield might have been caught scrumping. Perhaps in those latter Victorian days he was taken to court and sent to the hospital on the hill, the asylum, the psychiatric institution—in Macclesfield, it might have been Parkside hospital. Perhaps a simple young girl got herself into trouble, and people wanted to put her pregnancy out of sight. She might have been sent to a psychiatric hospital—in Macclesfield, that would have been Parkside. "The pace of removal of hospital facilities for mental illness has far outrun the provision of services in the community to replace them." "The Minister must ensure that mental illness or mental handicap provision is not reduced without demonstrably adequate alternative services being provided beforehand both for those discharged from hospital and for those who would otherwise seek admission." 1299 "The loss of psychiatric beds (50,000 since 1980) has led to seriously ill people being denied access to in-patient care when they need it. In our rush to close down institutions, we have replaced them with overcrowded wards where people with very different conditions have been thrown together. Hot-bedding is rife—14 people for every ten beds in inner cities—doctors are faced with impossible decisions to discharge someone who is still desperately ill to admit another at equal risk, making treatment at best ineffective and at worst damaging." "This Bill recognises that in-patient care should be tailored to the individual needs, giving real choice to those currently denied `asylum'. Because of this crisis in in-patient care people with mental illness are being neglected and lives lost."
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton  (Macclesfield) : I am grateful to you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, for calling me in this short but important debate. The Minister knows that I have taken a great interest in this sector of health provision for many years. For 18 years, I was a member of the Social Services Select Committee and its predecessor, the sub-committee of the Expenditure Committee. Latterly, I chaired the Health Select Committee. 1298
 Mr. Nicholas Winterton : Will the hon. Gentleman comment on the views expressed a few years ago by Mrs. Major—not the wife of the previous Prime Minister—of the National Schizophrenia Fellowship? She said:
 "As a magistrate, I am distressed to have to send somebody to prison from time to time because there is no secure accommodation elsewhere."
 Mr. Nicholls : Did he get a word in edgeways?
 Mr. Patrick Nicholls  (Teignbridge) : We have been treated to a tour d'horizon longer than the introductory speech of my hon. Friend the Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis). The kindest thing I can say—I say it as one solicitor to another—is to remind the hon. Member for Hendon (Mr. Dismore) that Dr. Johnson said on a similar occasion that he would not speak ill of any man but he believed the gentleman was an attorney. 1313
 Mr. Nicholls : If the hon. Gentleman is concerned only about the detailed wording, I can give him some assurance. The matter can be dealt with in Committee. The public will want to know whether the hon. Gentleman is or is not in favour of women being protected from indecent assault and rape by proper security devices being placed on doors. Even the hon. Gentleman should be able to get his mind around that prospect in the time available.
 Mr. Nicholls : On a point of order, Mr. Deputy Speaker. I have shown considerable patience, as have my hon. Friends. For the past 20 minutes, the hon. Gentleman, whose name, I confess, I do not know, has been mouthing things and calling hon. Members silly little people. This debate has been in fairly good humour so far. It is about time that he picked up a feeling for the manners of this place.
 Mr. Nicholls : One always knows when the hon. Gentleman is on a losing wicket, because he leaves behind his usual genial persona. As brick walls go, one has never seen better. Outside the House and sometimes inside the House, he is most genial. But it is my experience that when he knows that he has no case, he resorts to gratuitous abuse. Let me remind him of the point that has clearly escaped him so far. He is now in government. 1314 "Mind's Stress on Women campaign which ran between 1992 and 1994 heard from women all over the country that they did not feel safe in services. Some talked of constant fear. Others chose not to use services because of the abuse that they, or women they knew, had experienced." "I and a number of other women I know have had very bad experiences on mixed wards. A friend of mine was raped and I was harassed to death by men and the staff never intervened … The situation in the hospital was so awful I'd never go back there—you can't be ill in peace." "was raped while in a psychiatric hospital. The man had simply walked through the adjoining mixed ward into Carol's unattended dormitory and into her cubicle." "sexual harassment of female patients in psychiatric hospitals is rife. In just over half the wards visited it was discovered that women patients were being harassed by male patients. Problems included" "physical assaults and verbal harassment." "Safety for women on psychiatric wards is a major issue." "just over … (35 per cent.) of women have access to women-only sleeping areas … a quarter (27 per cent.) have to pass male parts of the ward to reach women-only toilets, baths or showers … a third (32 per cent.) have access only to mixed sex toilets, bath or shower facilities. A small number (3 per cent.) use sleeping areas also used by men." 1315 [Interruption.] "agrees with the principle of providing security within psychiatric units but would again encourage active consultation with those using the facility … to ensure a therapeutic environment which might be lessened by over-zealous security measures." 1316
 Mr. Nicholls : The hon. Gentleman's sincerity.
 Mr. Nicholls : The hon. Gentleman puts himself at odds with every mental health organisation, so he needs to know what he is doing. If we are to take him at face value as a genuine and sincere person who is trying to ensure that good legislation gets on the statute book, why does he not tell the Minister that he wants the Bill to go to Standing Committee so that the wording can be considered?
 Mr. Patrick Nicholls  (Teignbridge) : I, too, have been in contact with MIND; I dare say that we have received a similar briefing. Will the hon. Lady place on record the fact that, although MIND has reservations about clause 1, it is in favour of clauses 2 and 3? MIND hopes that the Bill will go into Committee, so that its concerns can be addressed.
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Paul Boateng) : If Government business managers were to find time for such a debate, could the hon. Gentleman guarantee that more than one Liberal Democrat Member would attend?
 Mr. Boateng : What is the point of having a strategy?
 Mr. Boateng : We certainly intend that the money should be applied in such a way as to do just that. 1331
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Paul Boateng) : The hon. Member for Southwark, North and Bermondsey (Mr. Hughes) is a stout and knowledgeable defender of Guy's hospital. He brings to the debate considerable experience and knowledge, and real commitment. He will understand that Ministers are currently considering the outcome of Sir Leslie Turnberg's deliberations on this and other matters. 1338 1339 1340
 The Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health (Mr. Paul Boateng) : The House owes the hon. Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis) a debt of gratitude for bringing this subject before the House. He did so with great feeling and intellectual force. Almost without exception, the other contributions were of the highest quality. Hon. Members brought to the debate experience of their constituencies, and of the concerns and problems of their constituents and friends. Their previous experience of the matter qualified them to speak. "The stage has now been reached where the rhetoric of community care has to be matched by action, and where the public are understandably anxious about the consequences." 1329 "Asylum can be provided in a physical and psychological sense in the middle of a normal residential community: traditionally indeed, in the midst of a busy church." 1330
 Mr. Boateng indicated assent
 Mr. Boateng : There is a touch of nauseating hypocrisy about the hon. Gentleman's approach. If the Bill is such as to commend itself with such obvious force and vehemence to Her Majesty's Opposition, why did they not introduce a similar measure when they were in government?
 Mr. Spring : This is a fascinating insight into the history of mental institutions and the development of drugs. However, I suggest that the hon. Gentleman now focuses on the serious issues of current importance in the Bill, affecting the security of women patients especially, and that he addresses clause 2. If he does not, he will demean the whole process of our serious consideration of mental health in this country.
 Mr. Spring : Is the hon. Gentleman planning in his discourse to give us the telephone number of the excellent firm of solicitors to which he is attached?
 Mr. Spring : On the question of mental health facilities, is there a psychiatric ward at Edgware hospital? I should be very interested to know the answer to that question.
 Mr. Spring : Happily, there are fewer students as a result of Labour's policies.
 Mr. Spring : I entirely accept that health authorities are required to have a mental health strategy, but strategies have to be updated. They must accord with what actually goes on in psychiatric wards. The point about the Bill is that it strengthens the strategy and puts flesh on its bones, so that the concerns about single-sex wards and the safety and security of those in them—concerns that have clearly arisen in the past few years—can be addressed.
 Mr. Richard Spring  (West Suffolk) : I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis). Rarely has anybody introduced a debate about something
 1325 1326 "In the past month for a period of two weeks ending just over a week ago it was virtually impossible to admit either male or female adults of working age … to an acute psychiatric bed within reasonable reach of West Suffolk. Male and female admission beds on Ward G8 of West Suffolk Hospital were filled immediately they became available but it was necessary for ward staff to check on a daily basis where the next available bed was, in the event that admission was unavoidable. Over the weekend of 23rd/24th November we confirmed that there was no available bed in the counties of Suffolk, Norfolk, Cambridgeshire or Essex. Female beds were located in Boston, South Lincolnshire and in Leicester … The situation reached its most extreme on 1st December when the nearest female bed we could locate was in Hereford, a full day's journey by emergency ambulance had we needed to take advantage of it." 1327
 Mr. Spring : I am sure that my hon. Friend recognises that, tragically, people who are suddenly overcome by some mental difficulty or tragic shock are not in a position to make judgments about the seriousness of their condition. Very often, the overwhelming and sudden impact of what has hit them causes their whole world to implode. That is precisely why there must be a strategy to cope with such people and provide the appropriate treatment in appropriate surroundings.
 Mr. Spring : By highlighting mental health issues and the need for health authorities to devise a proper mental health strategy, the Bill will help to avoid the position that arises in some parts of the country, whereby individuals land up in the criminal justice system, where they should not be.
 Mr. Richard Spring  (West Suffolk) : Will the hon. Lady give way?
 Mr. Robert Syms  (Poole) : I have listened carefully to the hon. Gentleman. He argues that we should give the Government a little more time. Does he acknowledge that the Bill should be given more time so that the issues can be explored in more detail in Standing Committee?
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : I am grateful for the opportunity to raise the subject of Guy's hospital and the London health review, within a few days of the expected announcement of the results of the review. "Shadow Health Minister Chris Smith has already pledged … that he will stop the Guy's closure programme on Day One of a new Labour government … Remember—if the Tories get back into government, then Guy's will close." 1334 Evening Standard "Labour must listen to the people on London hospital closures and health care." 1335 Evening Standard, "admitted that he should have had more statistics in his possession before he made the recommendations that led to … the run-down of Guy's Hospital". 1336 1337
 Mr. Simon Hughes : The hon. Gentleman and the hon. Member for Hendon (Mr. Dismore) have spoken for more than an hour in total. Is it the hon. Gentleman who wants the Bill to be talked out, or the Government?
 Mr. Hughes : No, not for a second.
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : I welcome this debate. It is a paradox of this place that, two weeks ago, we had a packed Chamber on a Friday for a debate on whether to abolish fox hunting, which affects at most 60,000 people—that was the figure quoted by those opposed to the Bill. Today's Bill affects far more than 60,000 people—those who work in the service or who are affected currently or prospectively by mental illness—and we have a relatively small attendance.
 Mr. Hughes : There is a debate to be had about that, which is why I want the Bill to go into Committee. The hon. Lady and I agree on the need to provide single-sex
 1285 [Interruption.]
 Mr. Hughes : The Minister, who is a solicitor—as are the hon. Gentleman on the Conservative Front Bench, the hon. Member for Teignbridge (Mr. Nicholls), and the hon. Member for Warrington, North—should know that the Bill does not require a great expenditure of money. That is the great joy of it. The Bill effectively requires the spending of no money.  [Interruption.] "One basic question posed when discussing the success or otherwise of the policy of care in the community is: are there enough in-patient beds left for those who need them? Two quite separate groups of patients needing access to beds can be identified: those who still need 24 hour care or supervision on a long-term basis; and those who are able to cope living in the community most of the time but who may periodically need 'acute' or 'respite' hospital care for a short period, for example if they are aware that they are in danger of suffering a relapse in their condition." "It is worth highlighting that the distinctions between 'care in the community' and 'in-patient' care are not absolute: long-term 24-hour nursing care may be provided 'in the community' in non-institutional surroundings and different commentators may refer to these as community services or as in-patient services respectively." 1282
 Mr. Hughes : I anticipate the hon. Lady's point. Let me deal with it. According to the Bill, those must be hospital services. We may want to consider that in Committee.
 Mr. Hughes : I do not know whether I could guarantee that, but I expect I could. I hope that the Minister will concentrate on the substance of today's debate rather than on attendance. I shall not lecture him about the seriousness of his actions, and I would respect it if he did not lecture others. 1281
 Mr. Hughes : I shall not give way just yet.
 Mr. Hughes : No, I will not give way. I am not trying to exclude the hon. Gentleman, who is a senior Member of the House, but I do not want it said that some of us spoke for so long that the Bill could not receive a Second Reading today.
 Mr. Hughes : No, the hon. Gentleman asks a proper question. I was dealing with the cost implications of the strategy under clause 1—there is none. 1284
 Mr. Hughes : I specifically referred to in-patient facilities. The Bill would ensure that health authorities have a duty not only to provide care in the community, but to draw up a strategy for in-patient services.
 Mr. Hughes : There are two answers to that question, and the hon. Lady is still getting it wrong. One is that the Bill does not require the spending of money.
 Mr. Hughes : I agree with the hon. Lady. For two decades, we thought that care in the community was almost always the answer for people with mental illness. The reality is that there is a range of needs, just as there are for people with physical illness.
 Mr. Simon Hughes  (Southwark, North and Bermondsey) : I am listening carefully to the hon. Lady, but I think that she is confusing two separate issues. More crisis provision in the community is not incompatible with more in-patient psychiatric beds. By definition, they are in-patient and they are beds, and I hope that they would be in the community. She must not pretend that they are different, when they could properly be the same.
 Mr. Tony McNulty  (Harrow, East) indicated dissent
 Mr. Tony McNulty  (Harrow, East) : Because of the time, I will be brief.
 Mr. McNulty : Many thanks. To use the words of a stimulating intellectual sedentary intervention from the hon. Member for Teignbridge, "You started it."
 Mr. McNulty : No, I have only a minute. 1328 [Interruption.]
 Mr. McNulty : That is not what your silly little friend just said.
 Mrs. Browning : If the hon. Gentleman is foreseeing what the Minister will say, we would certainly welcome such support for clauses 2 and 3. But I reiterate— [Interruption.] 1292
 Mrs. Browning : I will, as long as the hon. Gentleman keeps his intervention short and does not make a speech.
 Mrs. Browning : I should be grateful if the hon. Gentleman would clarify something. Is he saying that he believes that the elderly frail are also mentally ill?
 Mrs. Browning : The hon. Gentleman shakes his head. He is new to the House. He should read  Hansard
 Mrs. Browning : I am answering the hon. Gentleman's first intervention before he makes his second.
 Mrs. Browning : Indeed. I agree. It is very hard to try to second-guess what is in the mind of somebody who is undergoing a severe mental breakdown. It is correct that medical professionals and people who are close to the person concerned—if there are such people—judge what is appropriate.
 Mrs. Browning : I am not under any illusion about the Bill; I am one of its sponsors. I see that it does not even fill two sides of an A4 sheet, so in nobody's estimation can it be called cumbersome. If the hon. Gentleman is suggesting that the Minister will say that there is no need for legislation because the Government will ensure that what is in the Bill is implemented, by directive, secondary legislation or whatever is required, I am sure that my hon. Friends and I would welcome that.
 Mrs. Angela Browning  (Tiverton and Honiton) : I congratulate my hon. Friend hon. the Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis) not only on drawing second place in the ballot but on the way in which he presented his Bill, which I am pleased to endorse. 1289 1290 "within separate and therapeutic environments."
 Mrs. Browning : The hon. Gentleman makes an extremely good point. Would not such facilities provide the flexibility that Labour Members have called for? For example, some hospitals in my constituency provide meals for people in their own homes under the meals on wheels service. Technically, one could say that those people are having hospital meals. Such integration and management from the hospital centre represent precisely the flexibility and the options that the strategy would embrace.
 Mrs. Angela Browning  (Tiverton and Honiton) : Never.
 Ann Keen : That is why I said that I support the concept of single-sex rooms, and that accommodation must be flexible and secure. We must bear in mind the fact that only a small percentage of mental health patients are detained under the Mental Health Act, and that many are in hospital voluntarily. We need to take a wide view of how we accommodate in-patients.
 Ann Keen : I have never experienced such eagerness to anticipate what I am about to say. If the hon. Gentleman is patient, he will find that I am coming to that point. 1278 1279
 Ann Keen : If the hon. Gentleman has patience and listens to my speech, he will find that I am coming to that point.
 Ann Keen  (Brentford and Isleworth) : Mr. Deputy Speaker, thank you for giving me the opportunity to contribute to a debate that is unquestionably much needed and of great importance.
 Ann Keen : The hon. Gentleman is quite wrong. I am describing mental illness, which I thought the hon. Gentleman was interested in. 1277
 Ann Keen : The Bill has provided us with an opportunity to review activity and service in mental health
 1276
 Ann Keen : The hon. Gentleman has been kind enough to comment on my professional life. On behalf of health professionals, I should like to say that we praised the hon. Gentleman and believed that it was an absolute disgrace that he was removed from the Select Committee. We thank him for his work with the Committee.
 Helen Jones : No, I have given way twice and I do not intend to give way again.
 Helen Jones : No—I have said that I will not give way again. I intend to draw my remarks to a close.
 Helen Jones : I know that the hon. Gentleman does not believe that, but that view is constantly being put forward. 1272
 Helen Jones rose
 Helen Jones : Does the hon. Gentleman accept that there is a need for the provision not only of crisis treatment and helplines, but of crisis beds in the community? If so, does he further accept that the spending of more and more money on increased hospital provision will not facilitate the development of those alternative services?
 Helen Jones : The hon. Gentleman has missed the point. By spending most of our mental health budget on hospital beds, which the Bill would further, we are preventing the development of a range of care in the community. The Bill calls for a strategy of more hospital beds.
 Helen Jones : I thank the hon. Gentleman for his intervention, but to me the whole thrust of the Bill is clearly in favour of provision for treatment as in-patients, and I believe that that strategy is wrong. 1271
 Helen Jones  (Warrington, North) : The hon. Member for New Forest, East (Dr. Lewis) has given the House a timely opportunity to debate a much-neglected area of health care. It is sad that, for many years, mental health services have been the Cinderella services of the national health service. To put it bluntly, as politicians, we know that there are no votes in mental health. We also know that public debate is often characterised by fear and ignorance. The users of the service have been discriminated against and had their views ignored for many years. They have had little choice in the services on offer to them. Those are the points that I want to deal with. 1270
